ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law 35154, the adoption of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, and the draft law 35155, the adoption of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, established in Brussels on 30 October 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Greta Thunberg was 14 years old when she sat in front of the Swedish Parliament and sat there for days alone with a sign on which she herself wrote: school strike for the climate. Greta, a teenage girl, had no money, no army of lobbyists or spokesmen or any other power instrument. A young girl, worried about her own future, about the future of her peers and about our planet, decided not to let things go. The beauty of her extremely simple and brilliant action inspired millions of people, especially young people, and made her a leader of the climate movement. With her school strike, she literally and figuratively stepped out of the inevitable-like treadmill of our time. Global warming and the consequences of climate change cannot be ignored. With an average age of 61 in this Chamber, we may not be experiencing the most disastrous consequences of climate change, but our children and grandchildren will. But even now extreme floods, drought and forest fires destroy lives of millions of people. These extreme weather conditions occur not only in Africa or Asia, but also increasingly in Europe. Biodiversity is shrinking at a very rapid rate. That's the other silent disaster that threatens Earth's vitality. What does climate change and declining biodiversity have to do with a trade and investment agreement between the EU and Canada? Everything. The dominant economic model that since the beginning of industrialization has put man, animal and nature at the service of profit maximization and certainly the neoliberalism of recent decades have caused this crisis. But poverty and extreme inequality in the world are also consequences of the neoliberal economy. Mr. Chairman. We can pretend that there is no climate crisis that threatens humanity's existence. We can close our eyes and ears to the crying of our children and grandchildren, who live with existential uncertainty about their future. We can pretend that there is no growing inequality between rich and poor and we can pretend that the minuscule improvements in the neoliberal economy of recent decades are sufficient to reverse the tide. I still hear Greta Thunberg's raging cry against the world leaders, gathered in the United Nations in 2019: how dare you. The Broad Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) concluded between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and Canada on the other is the most comprehensive and ambitious trade agreement in the history of the EU. The Convention removes trade barriers such as non-tariff barriers and customs duties at 98% of products and on all industrial goods. It also provides for the establishment of rules of origin, strengthens access to services and opens up the procurement market. In addition to trade, CETA regulates investment protection. The negotiations and the signing on 30 October 2016 took place at the height of neoliberalism, before a pandemic exposed the vulnerabilities and dependencies of international production chains and globalisation, before Russia's aggressive war against Ukraine turned world food supply into a weapon of war and before the alarming IPCC reports and extreme weather conditions put the urgency of climate change on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. In CETA, two central principles of neoliberalism have been worked out. One: more growth and globalisation are good. Two: the State has the task of maximum facilitation of the market and businesses. This means maximum liberalisation of trade in goods and services and protection of businesses up to and including the creation of a special court system to protect investment by companies and multinationals. At the same time, these are my group's central criticisms of this treaty. In preparing this debate, we have asked hundreds of questions in this Chamber. This makes the content and scope of the Convention clear. I am not going to ask a lot of questions about that today. Today, as far as my group is concerned, it is our political judgment. Let me be clear: this debate is not about Canada. Canada is a democratic rule of law, similar to ours. Human rights and progressive values are often at the heart of this. There is no doubt about it: Canada is and remains a valued partner with or without CETA. That is why my group will vote for the adoption of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Canada, which is also on the agenda today. Mr. Chairman. The Paris climate agreement made ambitious commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. GroenLinks expects that all public trading is at the service of combating climate change and ensuring that all layers of society can participate in the transition in a socially just way. The European Commission's impact analysis states literally that the increase in trade will lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions. An example of what the removal of restrictions under this Convention could mean is that tar sand oil and shale gas can be exported to the European Union. Both fossil energy sources are extremely bad for the climate and their production has a devastating effect on the environment, nature and the living environment of humans and animals. LTO Nederland argues passionately for CETA. Their letter of lobbying further confirmed my group's conviction against this treaty. I quote from the letter: "Since the Convention entered into force in 2017, exports to Canada have increased more rapidly than imports. Also for pig farming, for example." More and more pork and beef go from the Netherlands to Canada, while the Dutch nitrogen policy requires a halving of livestock. In the broadcast of Nieuwsuur on 7 July last, it was made clear that it is not farmers who benefit from more production and more exports. The agri-industrial sector around the farmers is the great profiteer. They make a lot of money and hunt the production. With this, they are partly responsible for cutting down even more square kilometres of rainforest in the Amazon. Soy from Brazil is processed into feed to send the meat produced in the Netherlands back across the ocean to Canada. And that at a time when protests by farmers against nitrogen reduction paralyse part of the country. This is the long international production chain we're talking about. It is a model example of the perverse consequences of neoliberal globalisation with trade agreements such as CETA. A way out of the current agricultural crisis in the Netherlands is to set quality above quantity and ensure that the farmer gets a fair price. 2,500 farmers presented a ten-point plan last week in response to the current agricultural crisis. CETA, which exposes these farmers to competition from Canada through the import of cheap products, where standards are also a little lower, does not help the transition to sustainable agriculture. CETA keeps farmers trapped in a system that damages the environment, soil and water quality, and has to produce animals cheaply for the world market. Above all, we see the negative effects of neoliberal globalisation. The local economy needs to increasingly compete with the global economy, making cheap production the main goal. As a result, social rights and labour rights are under pressure. We all know the erosion of labour rights and the exploitation of people in modern slavery in many sectors, such as the textile industry. Mr. Chairman. Our second major objection concerns the great power of large international companies and multinationals as a result of this treaty. The investment arbitrage ICS of CETA provides foreign investors with rights that domestic entrepreneurs do not have and allows foreign investors to cross national courts. The choice lies entirely with the companies. In the event of a dispute, they may decide to follow the path of national justice or that of the ICS. Although the ICS is less bad than the old Investor-State Dispute Settlement, the so-called ISDS, in trade agreements, because it has more transparency and is permanently working with fixed judges, we, GroenLinks, even after several written rounds, remain concerned with why the EU and Canada, with strong constitutional traditions and independent justice, need separate courts outside national or European judicial systems to settle disputes between companies and governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u4	I leave a lot of points that you put under neoliberalism to rest. I think you have called it six times. I am now talking about the issue we are discussing in this Chamber, namely dispute resolution. I believe you say, unless I have misunderstood you, that the ICS forum would not be accessible to small businesses. That seems to me to be factually wrong. It's open to everyone. It is only a choice whether you want to use the local rights or the arbitration forum. Did I interpret that correctly or did I not understand correctly? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u5	I think Mr Backer may not have listened very carefully. I didn't say anything about small businesses. Of course they can... I told them that these companies can choose whether to go to a national or an international court. But also on the basis of the experience we have with existing treaties, I believe that large companies and multinationals will make use of ICS in particular. Or does Mr. Backer fight that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u6	I don't fight anything, but ICS hasn't been tested in practice yet. The fact that multinational companies have used ICSID in the past, which is quite scarce, will have something to do with the fact that they work in several countries, often make larger investments and thus have an interest in conducting such arbitration proceedings which are unlikely to be conducted in local courts or surrounded by very few safeguards. So again, it's not just for big companies. I can imagine larger companies using it earlier, but why would it disqualify the whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u7	That's not the point of our objection at all. It doesn't matter if they're big or small companies. We simply have independent justice, a European judicial system and a Canadian judicial system, which we can simply rely on. Those companies can go there. They do not need to have a separate international route. The point made by Mr Backer about investing in several countries is correct, but disputes are always about a very specific country. I will give the example of the Netherlands in a moment with the Coal Act. You know that the energy charter has been used and that processes have been carried out against the Netherlands, against a national state. That might as well have happened in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u8	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr President. Now I know GroenLinks as very constitutional. We also had debates together on Poland, Hungary and the rule of law. Canada enters into a treaty with 26 countries in Europe. Of those 26 countries, I think there are very few where she or I, or perhaps you, would dare to sue. Then, after all, investment protection would be useful if I did not let the countries mention it all, to avoid some courts and to ensure that you have fair investment protection? These investments must, of course, benefit the citizens of that country. That's what it's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr Backer really disappoints me now. Yes, indeed, we are working together against violations of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary within the EU. A solution must also be found, but that cannot be an excuse to come up with a separate route to protect the investments of large companies! So where do we end up? Are we going to set up separate tribunals and courts everywhere? No, we have to address the problem of Poland and Hungary wherever it belongs, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u11	You will continue your speech, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u12	Yes. Where was I? Oh, yeah. In fact, we believe that the creation of the ICS contributes to the crumbling of our democratic system because the ICS serves too much private business and too little public interest. This is also evident from past experience with ISDS disputes. In view of his experience with ISDS and energy charter, the Netherlands should go fiercely against ICS. The Netherlands, on the basis of the energy charter, has billions of claims to pay due to the recent coal law, with two German energy giants, RWE and Uniper, demanding 1.4 billion and 1 billion euros respectively because the Netherlands prohibits the generation of electricity from coal burning by 2030. This is inconvenient for governments and countries that want to pursue a more socially equitable and sustainable policy to achieve the Paris climate goals. Is the Netherlands willing to commit itself to reforming the Energy Charter? Investment in energy must not stand in the way of climate protection. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to CETA. Then there is the transfer of legislative powers to the CETA Committees, to the semi-soft environmental provisions and social provisions in them. The European Parliament and the national parliaments are out of play and there is too much power in CETA committees to implement, for example, investment protection. The Committees are not sufficiently legally secure and transparent to pursue the general interest. The risk of lowering standards through the committees is also lurking. This gives international companies and multinationals a lot of extra power. They are informed about legislative projects early in this so-called regulatory cooperation. We know how strong the lobbying power of the companies in Brussels and The Hague is. It is precisely this minister who knows a great deal about this as a former EU Member of Parliament. Businesses can influence new proposals early in the legislative process unnoticed. The intended harmonisation of laws and rules can be harmonised to a lower level without the influence of parliaments, the European Parliament or the national parliaments. The case of Neelie Kroes, employed by Uber, published by independent journalists yesterday, shows that companies are doing everything they can to influence rules and laws to their advantage. We must not give multinationals more power. In this context, I would also like to briefly mention the complaints mechanism for complaints by civil society organisations, for which the Netherlands has argued. The fact is, as the government wrote in response to our questions, that with this hotline no iota changes to CETA. It is as the environmental organisations and FNV wrote to us in their letter: "Sustainability Complaints Report is merely a patchwork against ICS and weak sustainability chapters." Let me repeat the words of Jan Terlouw, honorary member of D66, and Jan Pronk, former Minister of the PvdA, in the article of 10 July. "It is therefore wise for the First Chamber to vote against CETA. This will allow for new global commitments to address the major challenges of today, such as the climate crisis, declining biodiversity, food security, sustainability of economic transactions and poverty and inequality. When concluding trade agreements, let the EU look at the impact on the rest of the world." Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u14	No. No, no, no, no! I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u15	I thought you'd be early. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u16	My youngest grandson, Sami, is exactly two months old today. Looking at him and his three years older brother Kian, I increasingly wonder which world she and all their peers will live in. What world are we leaving behind? Society-destructive effects of climate change and inequality are already evident. Business as usual is no longer an option. The continuation of neoliberal economics is no longer possible. More, more and more growth. More, more and more exhaustion of the earth. More, more and more production and consumption. More, more and more exports. It has to stop. This treaty is good for everything that stands for the economy of "more, more and more" and bad, very bad, for the much needed transition to a fairer, more social and more sustainable world. For Sami, Kian and all the other children and young people for whom Greta Thunberg literally stepped out of the system, my group will vote with conviction against the CETA Convention. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u17	Yes, have you finished, Mrs. Karimi? Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u18	Our group considers this to be a very impressive speech. It's all there. Everyone's heart should be beaten faster to vote against. This group is going through a metamorphosis, because I understand that this group will be associated with the Labour Party. I also see a metamorphosis of the Labour Party, the Pvdá, because if I have understood correctly, it has become a Party of the Z: a Party of the Zuidas. My question to Mrs Karimi is: how do you view that? Can you, together with a party that takes a position that is so contrary to your really very convincing argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u19	I think I can be very honest about it. We are, of course, disappointed by the position of the PvdA's Upper Parliamentary Group. Yesterday, Niesco Dubbelboer, a prominent member of the PvdA and former Second MP, wrote that he was very disappointed and sad, and actually angry, about this position. I think he did that on behalf of a lot of former PvdA members. And with that he also expresses the feelings of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group, whom I congratulate on his birthday today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank you for allowing me to speak on this very day. I am also speaking for my grandchildren, Mrs Karimi! For realising the Dutch ambitions in the world we have! The choice of our allies is often decisive for success. Canada is a stable ally with which the Netherlands is doing a lot bilaterally and multilaterally, including in the UN. During President Trump's presidency, it turned out once again how important it was that we also had a partner with common goals on the North American continent. We will also need Canada very much in the future. Mrs Karimi said "it's not about Canada," but of course it's about Canada. We also need Canada in Europe. ==History==After the occupation of Crimea by Russia in 2014, Canada sent 1,000 troops to Latvia. These troops are part of four battalions in Eastern Europe. That alliance with Canada has a long history. There are about 1 million people of Dutch origin living in Canada on a population of 38 million, including a winner of the Elfstedentocht. Our royal family found shelter in the Second War and Canadian soldiers played a very important role in the liberation of the Netherlands between September 1944 and May 1945. Every year remembrance ceremonies are held for the more than 5,000 Canadian soldiers who gave their lives for our freedom and the opportunity to debate here. After the Second World War, Canada has constructively and consistently contributed to a new world order, in which right over power should prevail. Canada was the first to ratify the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. Mr President, may I suggest a quote from Prime Minister Trudeau before the interruption. If it's okay with you, I'll do it for the sake of time in English. He said during his visit to the Knight's Room: "As friends, allies, and partners across the Atlantic, Canada and the Netherlands share a commitment to the brighter tomorrow we want to see, and the progressive values that will get us there. The rule of law. Love reason. The defense of human rights. Multilateral institutions that serve the common good by promoting fairness and equality.' That's Canada, Mr. Chairman. That's Prime Minister Trudeau.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u22	Then Mrs. Prast. I would point out to Members that it is not customary for more than one member of a group to hold the debate, but it is, of course, permissible. I would ask you, however, to control the amount of time you use and the number of interruptions somewhat, because time planning is based on one interrupt per group. Having said that, I am happy to give you the floor. Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u23	We're gonna hold back, and I'm gonna hold back on the length of my contribution later. I fully agree with Mr Backer that we should be grateful to the Canadians for the liberation in the Second World War. Just like the Russians and the Americans! But if we go back in time to argue support for CETA... Well, we have Germany and Italy in the EU. So I do not understand how the argument of wartime can be a valid argument to say that it is a good thing that we can now conclude a treaty with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u24	I can reassure Mrs Prast, because I have a lot of other arguments. I'll be right there. Mr. Chairman. The partner agreement with the EU marks a new step in cooperation with Canada. The rule of law is right over power, a common objective... cannot prevent it from being sometimes the other way around in the world. Since the Russian armies invaded the neighbouring Ukraine, a gruesome and painful war has been raging on the eastern border in Europe. The security situation is precarious in Europe. This war can still have many unexpected turns, which will also affect Dutch households, energy tariffs and unity and cooperation with allies. This will also be under pressure as the war lasts longer. The unthinkable is happening these days. Anyone who had predicted six months ago that Sweden and Finland would join NATO would have been made a fool of. And now the proposal is on the agenda today at the end of the day and tomorrow. The economic and social consequences of the war will have a direct effect. That is why I think: let us be careful that we do not make unthought-out decisions that are going to affect us economically. So that's a second argument why I think we could work very well with a partner like Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u25	Like Mr Prast, I do not fully understand Mr Backer's reasoning, but I hear this more often. When it comes to CETA, we will hear even more references to World War II today and references to Russia's current war against Ukraine and the geopolitical situation and the fact that Canada is a good friend and a progressive country. It is not progressive in all respects. There is, for example, some indication of how Canada deals with the original population. The same applies when it comes to the environment. Think of the fact that there is so much oil in the Canadian soil and that the Canadian Prime Minister has said that they still want to get it out. But even if we do vote against this neoliberal and fossil trade agreement tomorrow, we are still good friends and a reliable ally of Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u26	If things were to work out as he thinks, I would invite Mr Van Apeldoorn to explain to the Canadians that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u27	I'd love to. If we vote against this treaty tomorrow, I think there will be a lot of progressive Canadians who will cheer and who will think: this is a hopeful moment for everyone who is fighting for fair world trade and for a just world; the Netherlands voted against CETA, let us now make a better treaty. This will not only be the case in Canada; it will also be the case in France, Germany, Belgium, Italy and Cyprus, all countries that still have to ratify CETA. I think that can be explained very well and I would very much like to do so, so let's hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u28	Maybe. I will strongly support another outcome of this debate; that will be clear. What I noticed in the whole debate on CETA over the last two years is that it has become an ideological debate, about neoliberalism, about another world, about other trade. By framing it in this way, it seems as if those who are in favour of a trade agreement which has raised standards and standards and which have provided for all kinds of provisions are one of the better trade agreements that have ever been negotiated, have come into the wrong camp, in the camp of not wanting to argue for a better world, better and fairer trade, animal welfare and other subjects. We do. The fraction of D66 is for that, but it's the question of how to get there and therefore it's relevant to talk about Canada with which partners you go there. Then there are few countries in the world that are so much in that discussion as Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u29	It is, of course, an ideological debate. It's about ideology. Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks has explained this very well. We are talking about clashing world views: on the one hand, the world view of the Backer, on the other hand, the world view of me and Mr Karimi. It is an ideological debate. I will say more about ideology later, but I would like to come back to Mr Backer's point that we cannot abandon good friend Canada. If we put CETA here in the Senate tomorrow, I still have hope for something; I am looking towards Mr Koole... then Canada remains an ally in NATO and not just in NATO. Therefore, we are still talking about the strategic partnership agreement, which is probably very little at issue today. These values, which Mr Backer considers so important, are all explicitly mentioned. Cooperation with Canada will be stepped up. I share these values with him: multilateralism, the rule of law and respect for human rights. So we can vote very well against this neoliberal and fossil trade agreement, but in favour of the strategic partnership agreement. In doing so, we can send the message to Canada that it remains a reliable and important ally, with which we stand together on the world stage when it comes to those values that Mr Backer considers so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u30	Shall I continue my story?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u31	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u32	This is a speech by Mr Van Apeldoorn which I know. I don't think he's asking a real question either. If he asks a question, it is the question whether it could be done without this treaty. In my opinion, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u33	I do agree with your proposal that you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u34	I think so, too. That seems to me to be so efficient. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn on the partnership agreement. I would say in Canadian: a no-brainer. We will, of course, be in favour of that. That could have been the case with the trade agreement with Canada. But that has become highly politicised; this is already apparent from these interruptions. We thought it was an improvement on previous treaties. That judgment has been reinforced after the 400, 300 or 250 questions exchanged over a weather with explanation. The standards for a healthy food and production chain and sustainability have also been explained. From the Lower House there were many feedbacks with Minister Ploumen in the run-up to this treaty. This was done in the run-up to, in particular, the round of negotiations on a dispute settlement. She took that to heart. I'll talk about that in a minute. The respectable goals that were thus raised in the public debate, which we have just mentioned, such as sustainability and better and fairer trade, also apply to the D66 Group. I therefore agree with Jan Terlouw, but not with his conclusion that this treaty would not help in this. I'm just going to support another conclusion. Mr. Chairman. How do we do it best? We do this best by building a bilateral and multilateral trade relationship. You need to be in conversation and build relationships. Over and over again, incremental improvements will have to be made in the coming years. It's possible. You can't build a relationship by throwing a treaty that has been negotiated for ten years and saying: no, no, no, no, our relationship remains good. I think that every parliamentarians has a duty here to ask themselves whether purpose and means are compatible. The results of that trade agreement are often presented as a decline in public debate. In the public debate and here too, legislative interventions by this Chamber are being called for which we are not at all concerned. That is also a late response to Mr Van Apeldoorn's interruption. Those standards are laid down in the Treaty. The public debate has been held: not the standards have been reduced, but the rates have been reduced. They have a significant economic impact. Mr. Chairman. The review of legality is very specific this time. It is about dispute resolution on issues between Canadian investors and governments. Reciprocity has just been mentioned in my interrupting debate with Mrs Karimi. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, trade policy has been the exclusive competence of the European Community. It is therefore no longer possible for the Netherlands to conclude bilateral agreements on this matter. Following mandate, alignment and approval in the Council of Ministers and at that time 27, formal agreement with the trade policy chapters of the Treaty is exclusively reserved for the European Parliament, and that consent has been given. That democratic body, and then the House of Representatives, has approved by majority the trade agreement with Canada. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, that is also the competence. The Dutch Senate cannot extend its own jurisdiction at the expense of other bodies in the Union without treaty change. A very large part of the discussion and preparations were on issues that we are not talking about at all. That is also why the debate on CETA has become so strange. We are talking about investment protection for indirect investment and financial services. That's what it should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u35	Do I understand that Mr Backer says that the First Chamber is not about the commercial part of the CETA Convention, and that if we were to vote against CETA tomorrow, we would actually be out of order? Is that what Mr. Backer says?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u36	That is not what Mr Backer says; that is what the Treaty of Lisbon says. This has been discussed in writing. In the first round of written questions, the cabinet actually left a bit of a smokescreen on that question. After the expert meetings here, in which the professors De Waele and Bronckers and others were present, I asked the Minister again very explicitly. Then I said: our competence is about chapters 8 and 13, and not about the other. The answer to that is: yes, that is how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u37	I would like to point out to Mr Backer that the treaty now before us is the comprehensive trade agreement with Canada. That is the whole treaty, including chapter 8 on investment protection and all other chapters. We are debating and voting in this Chamber tomorrow, not just on part of the treaty, but on the whole treaty. If we vote against the treaty, the whole treaty is gone. Unfortunately, there is nothing Mr Backer can do about that. I would also like to point out to Mr Backer that the position of him and his group is in any case contrary to the Government's response. It has made it very clear that the whole treaty is in place; it is a mixed treaty and therefore subject to parliamentary approval and ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you. Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u39	I think we're talking a little bit along. It's a mixed treaty. That is also the only reason why it is being submitted to national parliaments, because the dispute settlement is not within the competence of the European Union. All trade agreements have been concluded, even after CETA, with New Zealand, for example, which do not come through here at all. The only reason this comes through here is the dispute settlement. I'm not saying anything crazy. That's the division of competences. But you are right: the whole treaty has been put to the vote. If the Senate adheres to the Community division of powers agreed upon with the approval of all the chambers in the Treaty and we have objections, we should concentrate on Chapters 8 and 13. Those are valid reasons to tune it. That's my point. That we have all kinds of opinions about other chapters: fine, of course. I can't stop you from doing that. I am merely saying that the Senate, as I see it, needs to be stable and to keep an eye on the division of powers within the Community. Otherwise, we're gonna do something really crazy. But you're right: we can all tune it. But I wouldn't argue that, because I think we'd do something that wouldn't fit in with this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, thanks to Mr Van Apeldoorn, I have made a great deal of progress in my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u40	In the context of this same resistance to roll, I will once again argue for short questions and short answers, otherwise we will not be able to make it this day. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u41	I shall be brief again, Mr President. I am glad that Mr Backer is right, but if I had followed his reasoning, the Commission or the Council would have had to make two treaties. This is also the case in the other cases. Then we'd be here right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u42	May I interrupt you for a moment? All morning, there have been people in the room who think they should take part in the debate from their seats. Then we can't, because then people at home won't be able to follow. This is constitutionally a public debate. So if you want to say something, walk to the interrupting microphone and I'll always give you the floor. Then you will have an opportunity to do so, but do not call through the hall from the benches, please. Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u43	We would then have had the investment part presented separately here and I would have hoped that we would have voted that bad part of the treaty, together with the PvdA Group, at least. But that is not the case now. They didn't choose that. So now the whole treaty is before us and we can talk about the whole treaty here. That is also our role as First Chamber. There's a piece of legislation before this, and we're going over the whole piece of legislation, not just a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u44	The solution of splitting has sometimes been chosen. There are also trading partners who do not accept the dispute resolution, and then it does not come along. Now there is an opportunity to discuss chapters 8 and 13 in the context of the whole treaty. You have your own opinion and decide how you look at it, but this is what I think is legal. Mr. Chairman. The EU has spent a lot of time, effort, energy and capital building this trade agreement, but so has the Dutch Government. Former Minister for Foreign Affairs Bert Koenders and former Minister for Foreign Trade Lilianne Ploumen played an important role in the creation of the Treaty. Fortunately, I also see some consistency in the drafting, especially in the development of ICS, because that is an innovation compared to the usual arbitration arrangements, of, in the jargon, ICSID. Their successors, the former ministers Blok, Kaag and the Bruijn, and the current minister Schreinemacher continued this involvement, even after the Treaty was concluded, because, while the text of the Treaty could not be changed strictly, they were able to add, at the initiative of Mr Koole, a complaint procedure that would work for the whole of the Union: the Single Entry Point. At the time, Minister Kaag and her French colleague took a joint initiative to pave the way for this. That was not strictly part of the treaty, but it does bring us to a significant part of the immediate objections, including from my own political group, that there was no route for civil society and for others to file complaints that would be dealt with. There is now. In the last letter from Commissioner Dombrovskis, an orderly schedule of time was added to those complaints. We see this as an illustration of the space for evolutionary developments of a trade relationship, especially with Canada. In this case, Mrs Karimi, let's just call it a guide country; then we could come up with creative proposals, as we have done now. In short, what the Chamber as co-legislator has achieved is extraordinary. The complaint procedure will undoubtedly continue to play a role in subsequent treaties, and so will the Single Entry Point. It worked with rulers of different colors. It also seems sensible to me that there is a coalition-crossing consistency in foreign policy, especially in relation to Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u45	Does Mr Backer agree with me that this complaint mechanism does not change CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u46	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u47	And does Mr Backer agree with me that it is actually not a good idea to adopt a bad treaty and then set up a complaint mechanism so that people can complain?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u48	I'm trying to find an open question in this closed question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u49	That was very socratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u50	No, I don't think that's a good idea. I think we need to take up the fact that progress has been made and that we need to build on that progress. The Commission's trade policy approach has now achieved something that was not there, which is quite special, as a result of the discussion in this Chamber. I believe that this could be beneficial for anyone who is involved in the next treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u51	Doesn't Mr Backer contradict himself when he now praises the complaint mechanism as progress in trade policy, in principle that's fine, but as I said, is that a patchwork for CETA while he's just trying to convince Mr Van Apeldoorn that this Chamber isn't about trade policy at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u53	It seems very difficult for Mrs Karimi to find a positive point in the development of trade policy. Here's such a positive point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u54	No, Mrs Karimi, you have had your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u55	You can appeal to me that we may have used our own powers in this matter a little more extensively. Sometimes that's okay. But that's not about legislation. It's about commercial relations. We can. But this is about legislation. This is our core business. This is about legislation and then we have to do what we were created to do. The assessment of that ICS panel is country-wide. I think that is also wise, because often business disputes are also the cause of political disputes and even military conflicts. There is an improvement over a lot of criticism of ICSID. I refer to the fact that arbitrators are appointed by the parties. They'll be looking for a third together. Here is a panel designated by both countries; each points to five. It is kept as a permanent panel in life. There a complaint may be lodged against a decision of a government to the detriment of an investor, but that is very specific in Article 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u56	This microphone is cracking. He's jinxt, I think. Now it's happening again. I rest my case. I won't touch him. I agree with previous speakers. We, of course, are very grateful to the Canadians for releasing us in 1944-1945. Other countries have also contributed to this. But that is of course no reason to accept everything completely, because if you follow that reasoning, we would only have to buy Canadian products, and Canadian planes and Canadian trains and so on. That's not my question. My question is this. We know Mr Backer as an eminent lawyer and D66 as a party with a high regard for the rule of law. Now the ICS tribunal is actually a race to the bottom, because countries in Eastern Europe do not have such a good legal system as the Netherlands or Canada, and a solution has to be found. Then there will be all kinds of arbitrators who make binding judgments from Japan, Argentina, Singapore or I know where they come from; they can come from anywhere. It is a solution to a problem in other countries, Mrs Karimi has put it very well, which means that we need to lower our standards of justice. How is that compatible with D66 as a party that attaches such great importance to good legal protection? That's what I'm wondering. I would like Mr Backer to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thanks for the question. I'm trying to understand why we should lower standards. We passed the Arbitration Act in 2015. Arbitration is a fully accepted means of conflict and dispute resolution. I think Mr Otten has had to deal with this in practice of his business life. We have signed the New York Convention on Arbitral Decisions, which are being implemented. The only one who has withdrawn from it is Russia, which is very tragic in view of the MH17. A tribunal has been set up which improves the existing arbitration, which is in itself perfectly defendable, at the request of the House of Representatives, because it was thought that arbitrators might not be independent. There is an independent tribunal with appointed arbitrators, which are not dependent on parties. There has been added appeal, which is exceptional in the case of arbitration. Why would this be a lowering of standards? Because all arbitrators have to meet a qualification. They must have gotten a bar exam and they must show that they have no conflicting interest. They can be looked at in the direction of Mrs Faber; that is a huge improvement too. I'm just looking at her, because that's a favorite activity at the PVV. So I don't see why this would be a reduction. You're making it a bit of a caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u58	I am using the other interrupting microphone, because I would like to save Members some time. There is enough noise in this discussion, especially in the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u59	That microphone only cracks on you, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u60	I have had to deal with this sort of thing, I say to Mr Backer, for example in large investment projects in Indonesia, where in the past the legal system was not trusted and arbitration in Singapore was agreed, because the legal system might not have been so developed at the time. That's that race to the bottom. Because other countries, for example Hungary, which you and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are always critical of in terms of the legal system, whatever you may think of it, may not comply with the standards as Canada and we do, and do not have a proper legal system, we now have to agree with that ICS tribunal. So that's a race to the bottom. We can arrange this multilaterally with Canada. Canada has an excellent legal system and we have an excellent legal system. Why do we need the Lowest Denominator now? How do you say? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. That's not sellable for a party like D66, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u61	I have understood the question correctly, but I still cannot see why a tribunal set up by the European Union, which regulates the qualifications and independence of the arbitrators, would be a race to the bottom. That is simply an honorable and fair system of dispute resolution, as indeed with Indonesia. If Mr Otten says 'for an investor of Canada in the Netherlands it might not have been necessary', I agree with him, but for the 25 other countries, or some of the other countries in Europe, that is certainly a relevant addition to cover the country risk. Then I think, and I have seen this very often in the discussion: the investor can still choose to go to the Dutch court, but then he goes to trial against the Dutch state at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer, perhaps in three instances, while there is enough workload at the Dutch civil chambers. Moreover, expropriation law is very specialised. That's what the arbitrators at the tribunal have been looking into. So it's not exclusive. It's a choice if one doesn't. Then you choose the Dutch judge. You can, but it's an extra facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u62	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u63	I just heard Mr. Backer summing it up perfectly. This tribunal must be set up to manage the country risk of other countries. That's exactly what it is. Since other countries do not have a well-developed legal system, we must accept this tribunal in the Netherlands, which does have a well-developed legal system, in order to solve the problems in other countries. We are not against free trade. Nor are we opposed to trade with Canada or to a trade agreement. But then solve it multilaterally and not through such a tribunal. That's our point. Mr Backer has summarized extremely well what the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u64	I've summarized what it's like. If that is a problem for the Otten Group, it is a political conclusion. It's possible. But I cannot say that an arbitration panel such as it is now organised, which has been negotiated for years and which was hoped to become a permanent platform for other multilateral treaties, would be a lower level of justice. Again, there is a choice for the investor. If he doesn't want to, he won't. You often see that larger companies do and smaller ones do not, because they are greater interests. It's usually faster and usually it can be done at a high level. In reply to Mr Otten's question: you cannot eat both sides. You bring your case before the panel or the Dutch judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u65	I have a question for Mr Backer. Suppose one of the countries that is being discussed at this time is that I will not mention the name "Great for a big Canadian investor to have that ICS opportunity, something a Dutch company suffers from, does the Dutch company have the choice between the public court and the private procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u66	I recall from the studies on the functioning of ICSID and the trade agreements between European countries that the European Commission has been striving since Lisbon not to allow bilateral agreements in trade relations. So my understanding of this case is that a Dutch company has no claim there, but I would like to ask the Minister through you. In my opinion, this is an exclusive claim from a Canadian investor in an unnamed country in Europe, from the EU. Mr. Chairman. I would add that arbitration is an insurance policy. In 99% of insured persons, it never becomes operational. But it is an opportunity and it can also be given an objective form, so that countries can also talk to an investor when decisions are taken that are detrimental. There is therefore a consultation and mediation system for this. So you don't have to go straight to court. You can also decide to go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u67	Just as a result of the comparison with the insurance policy. Does Mr Backer agree with me that this also means that governments will be reluctant to take policy decisions that they think: hey, that might actually mean that I have to pay compensation for taking action, for example in climate policy, which in certain companies could be detrimental to potential future profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u68	And make a decision that wouldn't be in the interests of our grandchildren, would it? That's the underlying idea. Isn't that where we're at? I don't underestimate Mrs. Karimi. The parliaments are there, to keep the Dutch government informed of decisions to be taken in the future. In doing so, governments will have to weigh up all interests, including the interests of investors. If that balance ultimately shows that there is a legitimate claim that will have to be reimbursed, then that claim must be reimbursed. That's the rule of law. Ultimately, it is the political decision-making that concerns the future of this country. I have often heard in the discussion the argument that certain decisions are not taken for this reason. Then I would say: well, then we in Parliament should be very careful that it does happen if we think it should.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u69	The problem is that the investor's interest is so vaguely formulated and goes so far in terms of possible future, also potential, profits, that it means that you can face enormous costs. We have, of course, seen this in the decision-making of coal-fired power stations. My question is: why would Mr Backer, why would the D66 Group want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u70	Let me change it a little bit. If there is trade, if there are investments, if interests are at stake and those interests are harmed, then parties may file a claim. It may also be that they prefer not to, because they want to work even longer in this country or in another country. If they choose, they can go to the Dutch judge. This could also be done in the event that you suggest, during the energy transition in the Netherlands. They could go to the Dutch court for a claim on a decision on coal power plants or to a tribunal, whatever. All interests will be taken into account in this consideration. The claim may be 1 billion, but one can get 50 million. Claims don't say anything about the ultimate rightful claim. That is the outcome of justice. That is how the rule of law works, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u71	I find it very interesting that Mr Backer constantly says 'that is how the rule of law works', but that is precisely where our criticism lies. We have an incredibly strong belief in the independence of our national justice system and we do not see the need for a parallel system for companies and, above all, for international companies. What you're doing here, Mr. Backer, is trying to defend something that doesn't really fit in with everything you said before about the rule of law. I agree with you: these companies can indeed go to national courts. Fine, let them do that. But why would companies be allowed to move to an international parallel system where they have more room to raise their claims?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u72	I can use part of my text to answer this. It concerns very specific domains, where the Dutch State or any other state than the defendant would be. The Dutch government has not received any claim in the past 50 years, with the exception of the Energy Charter. So that fear of claims is unjustified, because ICS will not increase that possibility. That possibility is already there! The Netherlands has 90 bilateral treaties. I ask the Minister if that number is correct, because it could be fewer, but I think it is 90. All these treaties contain an arbitration clause. There's nothing special going on here! It is only made extremely special as a kind of occult activity of people. I'd try to straighten something out that's crooked. No, not at all! It's just a form of conflict resolution. What's against it? However, I am not going to repeat the argument of a number of other European countries, where you prefer not to sue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u73	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr Backer says: it is simply the rule of law. Well, in a rule of law, you don't have a supranational court that is exclusively accessible to a single party, namely companies. But I have another question. About two weeks ago, the House of Representatives adopted a motion by former colleague Teunissen, calling on the Netherlands to step out of the Energy Charter together with Spain. The reason for this is precisely what we have been talking about for a long time and what Mr Backer is defending in detail and what he calls an arbitration panel. That is why the Energy Charter also has such a parallel legal system: the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, ISDS. This also has exclusive access for business only. I believe that this has been a reason for the D66 Group in the House of Representatives to vote in favour of this motion. Is that correct or is that wrong on the website of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr President, I think we are going beyond the order of this discussion. Motions are constantly being tabled in the Lower House, including by the MP Ouwehand, who call on the government to withdraw this treaty. All kinds of groups are voting in favour of this. We're just dealing with what's ahead. Let me quote it as a relevant fact that there are claims, because you have to be honest about that. But I'm not gonna... I mean, the Energy Charter is a completely different discussion. So I'm not going to go into that any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u76	It is exactly the same discussion, because the Energy Charter also has such a parallel legal system. It has an "Investor-State Dispute Settlement" mechanism and that is what the motion states as a consideration to call on the government to step out of the Energy Charter. I'd like to hear it if I'm misinformed or if it's on the website wrong, but to my knowledge, the D66 group in the House of Representatives apparently voted in favour of it for that reason. So my question to Mr Backer is: how can he defend such a parallel legal system as comprehensively as his party mates in the House of Representatives seem to think that in the case of the Energy Charter such a parallel legal system is not a good idea? And I also know, of course, that Mr Backer is not about the group in the House of Representatives, but only about his own group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u77	There are often voices from my friends across the street that are different from the way people look at them here. This also occurs in other groups. I'm not going to discuss the context of the Energy Charter here, because it's not on the agenda. I don't think that's relevant either. You may be opposed to a particular dispute resolution solution in the context of energy. It could be. Maybe that's why my colleagues across the street voted for it. It could be. I did not talk to them about it, and I cannot really answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr. Nicolaï, can you do it in one question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr President, we have just agreed that I am asking one question by interrupting and not going further on. But it's an important question. We are talking about the goat path offered to large companies outside the Dutch legal system to file a claim against the Dutch State. It is about compensation, and when it comes to compensation, it is usually about balancing interests, provisionability and that kind of question. When it comes to balancing interests, it is very important who the judge or the arbitrator is and how he looks at those interests. When we put together the judiciary in the Netherlands, we are a little careful that it reflects society. Mr Backer knows that, because there is someone in his group who has been a judge, in GroenLinks is someone who has been a judge, in the Labour Party is someone who has been a judge. But who are these arbiters? Those are all people of the big money, aren't they? These are all people who are used to thinking in companies and so on? They must weigh up the interests, including public interests, public interests that the Labour Party should protect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u80	Your question is clear. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u81	There are a lot of assumptions in Mr Nicolaï's question about the Dutch judge. A correction is that, of course, it can also be a Dutch company that has a problem in Canada and then wants to address the tribunal about a decision by the local government in Canada. That could be the case in itself. I'll say it by heart, so the minister might still be able to confirm or deny it, but I thought Canada would nominate five arbitrators and the other five. You know very well that, Mr Nicolaï, this does not mean that the interests of that party are being defended, but that it is being considered whether it is people who understand what Chapter 8 on expropriation, obstruction and unfair treatment means in the context of that dispute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you. Then I suggest that you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Mr Nicolaï's question, I have already said a number of things in my text. I would like to add that, in exceptional circumstances, I would like to repeat that, in exceptional circumstances, arbitration proceedings are taking place. The statistics from ICSID show that the 3,000 trade agreements with arbitration clauses on the basis of which millions of transactions take place are on average 65 cases per year. The reality is that a lot of companies prefer not to spend time and effort on a business, while they want to get on with their work and their business. I have worked in companies from which I also know that reality. It is now suddenly as if the State, the politics here in the Netherlands and also in other countries, always has legitimate reasons to take a decision, but I also know cases where a municipality or the State of the Netherlands does not want to pay compensation for political reasons, because it cannot explain this to the city council or parliament and prefers to leave it to the judge. That could be an international judge. So it's seen as a strong improvement. I do not believe that I have convinced Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Nicolaï, but so be it. Mr. Chairman. I think I have already dealt with a lot of issues that have been raised in the interruptions, but there is one point I should like to make. I also keep hearing in the reasoning: multinationals are going to make use of it. But, because they will or will be able to make use of it, should we deny SMEs the opportunity to do so, while 93% of investors in Canada, but also over and over, are SMEs? Maybe they won't, but why shouldn't they have the facility? Because maybe big companies would use it, too? I think that is a very crazy argument, because you would not want to be arbitrary in the type of admissibility. I know that there has been some discussion about admissibility, and Mr Van Dijk has recently tabled a motion on it, but it would, in principle, be admissible for anyone who has a claim. We hope that this will not be the case. Mr. Chairman. We don't need to talk about feasibility and enforcement, because it's been in operation for five years. I'll ask the Minister if there's any problems. Any complaints? Have there been excesses, the type of excrement that has always been discussed in the public debate? I would like to hear that, because then, of course, we still have to take that into account. Mr President, I will conclude. The decision on the trade agreement with Canada is not on its own. It has a broader political and geopolitical atmosphere. It contributes to restoring prosperity for post-corona Netherlands, fits the country's consistent ambitions in international politics and also has an impact on future EU treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u84	I'll let you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u85	I'd love to. We know that ICSID has objections as a mechanism. We also know that the alternative of the World Trade Organization, the WTO, is shattered. At least that applies to the part of the dispute. So I conclude that this is a good alternative solution. It is lawful, enforceable and enforceable. Mr. Chairman. Despite this, there might be colleagues, I have the impression that I know some of those who continue to have difficulty with this dispute settlement. But here, in the belief of the fraction of D66, the adage "sometimes the better is the enemy of the good." This rejection also affects all the other articles that we are not talking about. Mr Van Apeldoorn has just argued that. Thus, the Dutch Senate would also carry the other 95% of the existing treaty, which has been in force for five years. This would be accompanied by a demonstrable loss of prosperity. There is no plan B, as Commissioner Hogan said in the conversation we had with him. This also excludes follow-up talks between the European Commission and adjustments and improvements, as there is no basis for that anymore. My group considers it disproportionate to choose Canada symbolically now as the country to which the anti-globalisation movement is trying to give the signal that the existing world order must be kicked. You can have good arguments for that, and I support some of them, but it also does not offer a tangible solution for further cooperation and prosperity. It feels a little bit like "I'm going to take a look at Mr. Beukering "Friendly Fire." In conclusion, Chairman, one more Prime Minister Trudeau in the Knight's Room. "Neather of our countries is the biggest, or the richest, or the most powerful. But building a better world isn't about standing alone. It's about standing together." The D66 Group is looking forward to the government's answers, but I am not telling you a secret by telling you now that we will support both the partnership agreement and the trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you. There are still a number of interrupts. I'll give you one question. Mr. Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u87	I have a question for Mr Backer. This concerns, in particular, Chapter 26, which talks about the establishment of a Joint Committee. That CETA Joint Committee will then consist of representatives of the European Union and of Canada. I quote from Article 26 (3) "the implementation and application of this Agreement'. I am surprised to hear nothing about this throughout Mr Backer's speech, but I would like to hear how he looks at this mixed committee with these powers, which it will get if we sign and ratify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u88	I'm not alarmed at all by that Joint Committee. That's been in operation for five years. I will ask the Minister whether there are any reports on this, but I cannot imagine that the Joint Committee could make fundamental changes to the Convention itself. I'm just gonna say that on my own account. But you can, of course, run into matters that need to be resolved with any treaty and any implementation. It seems to me that these are in the practical sphere and not in the fundamental sphere. I'd like to ask the Minister if she's still there... But it did not alert me and my group; you obviously did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u89	This was your question, Mr. Beekker? I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr President, I would like to thank Members for their heartfelt birthday wishes in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u91	I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr President, thank you. Just a heads-up. In my speech there will be some repetitions of Mr Karimi's very strong speech, which I was very impressed with, but in this case that is a good thing, because it is a good thing that certain things are repeated. Of course, Mrs Karimi and I could have chosen to speak together today, but that might have been a bridge too far. I see Mr Koole looking my way. Mr. Chairman. For years, from left to right, we know that hyperglobalisation has no future anymore. This was already the case for the disruptive effects of the current geopolitical crisis, as well as for the corona pandemic. That this form of globalisation brings us more than good, we know for sure since the previous global crisis, the financial crisis of 2008. That crisis was the direct result of neoliberal hyperglobalisation. Even the hyperglobalists of the past have come to realize in the years after the financial crisis that the free market and globalisation as a project of the further release of that market on a global scale are not blissful. Yes, neoliberal politicians, who have always embraced this globalisation, have come to realize that it is also accompanied by growing inequality, social disruption and harmful effects for people and the environment, effects that are not included as costs in the capitalist free market model. We all know this a long time ago. The corona crisis has once again magnified the way in which this form of globalisation is at the expense of our planet and our broad prosperity. We also know that if we opt for a globalisation in which multinationals are placed above people, people will no longer accept it at some point. This is a form of globalisation that undermines and disrupts democracy. And yet, unfortunately, we have to take serious account of the fact that a majority of this Chamber is considering voting tomorrow, after a long debate today, before this obsolete treaty from the era of neoliberal hyperglobalisation, the so-called free trade agreement with Canada. In fact, in an opinion article in the Volkskrant yesterday, the PvdA Group announced that it would vote in favour tomorrow, thus helping the centre-right coalition to reach a majority, rather than taking this historic opportunity to stop CETA, this neoliberal and fossil treaty. This is what the PvdA is doing, and that is something special even before the start of the debate. With this, the PvdA Senate Group seems to finally say goodbye to the slogan and the ideal that we have previously joined in the joint fight against the previous Rutte cabinet, namely: people over multinationals. I deeply regret that. Because this CETA Convention is doing exactly the opposite. It places multinationals above people. This threatens tomorrow, in our Senate, to become a black day for all those who fight for fair world trade and for a fairer world. In October 2019, then PvdA leader Asscher tweeted that in CETA "important issues such as fair work, environment and animal welfare are not adequately regulated." That's why the PvdA was against it. So now it is in favour, but the text of the treaty is still exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u93	In the rhetoric, Mr Van Apeldoorn, of course, comes a whole end with these speeches, but'multinationals over people'? Can you explain that to me? What's that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u94	Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u95	But a little short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u96	I'll be brief. This is actually about what I was talking about with Mr Backer. It is also about other matters, but the most important thing is chapter 8 about the investment court, the supranational court, the viphof for multinationals. Only companies have access to it, no people, no citizens, no NGOs, no trade unions, no environmental organisations, no other civil society organisations. Companies can sue against states there. Conversely, Member States against companies may not be able to do so either. Mr Backer says that national justice is still open. That's right. Only companies will deliberately not use it. Why? Because the ICS system is much more attractive, precisely because other parties do not have access to it and precisely because there are much higher claims, as history has shown. Mr Karimi has just explained this in detail: you are therefore making powerful multinationals even more powerful by setting up an exclusive court for them, an arbitration panel, as Mr Backer calls it, which is only accessible to companies, but not to people who feel disadvantaged, for example when it comes to sustainability agreements, workers' rights and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr Van Apeldoorn is simply making factual inaccuracies here. The panel is accessible. If I have a Canadian one-man case and I have a claim against the Dutch government, I can file it. The fact that the Canadian trade union cannot also make a claim against the Dutch government to the same panel is not relevant at all, because it is a claim from someone who is disadvantaged. Okay, if you filed a claim with the Dutch judge in the Netherlands, then someone might be able to join as a party. It could be, but it doesn't have to be. But it's not an exclusive forum. That's all I care about. You are always trying to stress that, as you have done in the course of the interruption, but that is simply factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u98	I think this is now a repeat of arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u99	If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to say briefly that it is obviously not a factual error. It is only accessible to companies and their shareholders, in that sense also to private individuals; so I have to give that to Mr Backer. Then Mr Backer says: a one-man case can also sue. Theoretically, you can. Of course, that will never happen in practice, and Mr Backer knows that very well, so here Mr Backer is actually working on disinformation. The average cost of starting a trial at an arbitration court is around 8 million according to various sources in the millions. A one-man business and also the average small SME will not be able to afford it. Moreover, as Mr Backer himself has just explained, it is not the sole proprietorship business, because of course they do not deal with Canada, but the multinationals that have very great interests. The point is that the interests of very large companies are given extra protection with the investors' court. This puts multinationals above people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u100	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u101	I think we're repeating ourselves. This is a truly ideological battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u102	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u103	And it's not on factually correct grounds. That one-man case can of course also go to the Dutch judge. Then it has a different route, but with that the court has not yet been created exclusively for multinationals. For example, 90 or 80 ICSID agreements already exist, bilaterally, between the Netherlands and other countries, so it's nothing new. It's accessible. What you're saying is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u104	No, what I'm saying is exactly right. I would like to ask Mr Backer, who does not have to answer how many sole proprietorship cases will be used by the arbitration court and how many deal with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u105	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u106	This is indeed an ideological battle. That's absolutely true. It's also about clashing worldviews, but I've said that before. Speaking of which, fortunately, the envisaged merger partners of the PvdA, the sisters and brothers of GroenLinks, are steadfast and do not fall for the neoliberal frame of the government. Like the SP, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been able to hear the lessons of neoliberal globalisation that we have just heard in detail and understand the derailment and disruption they have led to. Nor can we continue on the path of hyperglobalisation, in which large-scale capital is given more jobs and multinational property rights are more important than human rights, in which our democracy is already under pressure. It is precisely in this time of war and great geopolitical tensions and uncertainty that we should not want. Surely we should not want to go further on this hopeless road and if the Dutch Parliament ratify a treaty that is trying to revive this hyperglobalisation, which puts the interests of the oil industry above that of our planet, which strengthens the plutocracy of multinationals and their shareholders at the expense of our democracy? We must strengthen our democracy and our values now, mustn't we? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u107	First of all, on Mr Van Apeldoorn's comment on the Labour Party. He seems to think it's an interesting subject, but he's also a bit at the PvdA-bashen, especially when he says that social democracy puts companies and their interests above people. If there's something that always comes up in the history of social democracy, it's that it's about sharing honestly with ordinary people so that they can participate. These considerations also play a role in us. But here's the point of neoliberalism. Mr Van Apeldoorn uses that term very often. Does Mr Van Apeldoorn agree with me that in order to be able to tame neoliberalism with its deregulation drive, it is necessary to make agreements through trade agreements, but also through other treaties, which do provide a world in which rules are applied to each other? CETA is a treaty that lays down rules that require companies to comply with all kinds of agreements, especially for a sustainable economy, especially for better working conditions, in exchange for lower rates for businesses. I would therefore say that CETA is a major step forward in the fight against neoliberalism, because we agree on this fight against neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u108	As regards PvdA-bashen, as Mr Koole calls it, I had nothing on the PvdA in my text until last night. I am therefore responding to the explanation of vote in advance of the PvdA Group's very special statement in the Volkskrant article. If the PvdA Senate Group says here that it still attaches great importance to the principle that people go above multinationals, I sincerely welcome that and I hope that the PvdA Group will vote against this treaty tomorrow. As far as Mr Koole's question is concerned, it seems to be rhetorical. Of course, we believe that you should set rules and make agreements, especially when you are concerned about unbridled free trade, the power of multinationals and unregulated markets. Of course, you have to regulate those markets, on the basis of multilateral agreements. That is why, for example, my group was in favour of a multilateral investment court within the United Nations, with access for all parties, including NGOs. So, yes, you have to make appointments and yes, you have to regulate. You should do the same with friendly nations like Canada, but make the right arrangements. It is often said: if we can't do this with Canada, which country can? Well, that's right. That is why we need to deal with Canada properly, because that is the standard, even for countries where the rule of law is less developed and standards are less high. So yes, appointments, sure, but good appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u109	I am pleased that Mr Van Apeldoorn says that he is also seeking a multilateral court, preferably at the United Nations, in order to settle disputes of this kind properly, with independent judges and so on. My view is: I ask Mr Van Apeldoorn whether he agrees that the court now being proposed for CETA, the ICS, which is not yet in operation and which is really different from the other arbitration bodies, is a good step towards such an international court. That will not be possible for the time being, I think, given the political situation, but that is desirable; I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. Does he agree with me that the court of CETA, ICS, is a step in the right direction? That is my first question to Mr Van Apeldoorn. The second is more of a comment. He said he didn't have anything in his text about the PvdA, but he thought last night's statement was special. The SP has been saying what it's going to vote for a long time. The Party for Animals has been saying for some time what it was going to vote, just like GroenLinks and other parties. I don't blame them at all. Now we're gonna do that one time, and then suddenly we shouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u110	On that last point, the PvdA Group and Mr Koole are quite free to announce in advance how they will stand in the debate and how they will vote. We have indeed announced in advance how we stand in this and that we are against CETA. Of course, that was clear from the beginning. The special thing about this is, of course, "PvdA" and that does not affect the right of the PvdA Senate to publish such an opinion article on Sunday that was previously known by the PvdA to be against this treaty. I have just quoted your former party leader, Mr Asscher. It's been three years. In that sense, the PvdA is running. If you announce that turn in advance, I think that is a special construction, but that is of course entirely open to Mr Koole and the PvdA Group. I am also free to say a few words about this. When it comes to your question, which I'm just trying to remember...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u111	Would you please give me a brief answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u112	Yes, very briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u113	I'm gonna take the floor back. I would like to ask you to give a brief answer, because we are really running out of speaking time. I do not mind that in itself, but I also have other interests to take into account. That's what I'm doing on behalf of myself. I would therefore like a brief answer. I suggest that you conclude your speech, then we go to a short break. I'd like that, too. Go ahead. Mr Van Ballekom, if you take part from the benches one more time, you are disturbing the order and we are dealing with the Rules of Procedure. So I'd rather not today. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u114	To answer Mr Koole's question: no, the CETA Investment Court System is not an important step towards what we would actually consider desirable, namely a multilateral court at the UN. It contains certain procedural improvements compared to what was first proposed, namely the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, but those improvements are completely inadequate for my group. The major objection in principle remains: that the court is exclusively accessible to companies, in practice large companies, and their shareholders. We would like to see a court where any injured parties, including trade unions and environmental organisations and NGOs, can complain. That's not the ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you. I suggest that you continue and conclude your speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber is not there to establish good, but to prevent evil, says Minister Donker Curtius more than a century and a half ago. Well, I say to all my fellow senators, including my PvdA colleagues, it is not too late to turn back on your steps. A treaty that is bad for people, for the climate and for our democracy, in exchange for not a cup of coffee per month for every EU citizen. That is, at least, if all the uncertain models come out, the economic profit to be expected from CETA. Is such a treaty now in the interest of the citizens of the Netherlands? Among other things, the Consumers' Association knows better. It is strongly opposed, like many other organisations, from trade unions to all environmental organisations to farmers' organisations, who rightly fear that this trade agreement will give them even less perspective. Environmental defense is strongly opposed, as is the FNV, but the PvdA is ahead and does so, as we read in the Volkskrant, for the employees and for the environment. Have all these organizations misunderstood? No, they don't. Mr. Chairman. CETA, which we are talking about today, is called a free trade agreement, but it goes far beyond that. CETA is not called in English for nothing: Wide Economic and Trade Agreement. In fact, "wide" is not such a good translation of the English word "comprehensive" which means "multiple." And it includes a lot, a lot that affects the interests of all of us. CETA is not just about abolishing import tariffs, which have enough critical questions to ask, but also about removing so-called non-tariff barriers to trade as far as possible and the liberalisation of services and, crucially, investment. In doing so, CETA is a very neo-liberal treaty. I would like to say once again, President-in-Office of the Council, which is based on the philosophy of: the more liberalisation, the more market, the more large jobs for large companies, the better. But, Mr. Chairman, we know better by now. CETA places multinationals above people and does so again by legally anchoring the interests of investors and giving exclusive protection by the so-called Investment Court System, the ICS. This is a parallel legal system created specifically for multinationals. This viphof for multinationals is the worst element of CETA and more than sufficient reason to be very opposed to it. That is why, in the rest of my speech, I shall first address our objections to the ICS in detail. Next, I will deal in turn with the undemocratic way in which CETA harmonises laws and regulations and how CETA is committed to undesirable deregulation and liberalisation. Finally, I will mention how bad CETA is for the climate, for animal welfare and for farmers. Mr. Chairman. The ICS is therefore a court that is only accessible to companies, and in practice it is the large companies. They may sue governments if they consider that they have been mistreated by the relevant authorities, even if that had happened at the level of local authorities, such as municipalities and provinces. They can then file billions of claims. Conversely, governments cannot charge them, either trade unions, environmental organisations or other civil parties. One element that has not yet emerged in the discussion is that the ICS only reviews CETA and its investment protection. An investor who goes to the ICS excludes any review of national laws or treaties, such as human rights treaties or the Paris Climate Convention. Therefore, the ICS-arbiters to be appointed by CETA do not need... No, that does not allow them to balance wider interests, taking into account, for example, the rights of workers or the climate objectives. Those who have devised this must consider the interests of multinationals and their shareholders to be very high. But let us be clear: CETA is largely conceived by and for multinationals and increasing their power and profits. Article 112, first paragraph, of the Constitution provides that the judicial authority is to be entrusted with the trial of disputes concerning civil rights and claims. In spite of this, CETA thus gives direct access to a special court, only for investors, outside our judiciary. Isn't this at least a bad relationship with our own democratic rule of law? I'd like a response from the Minister. According to 20 professors and other lawyers, CETA is even contrary to our Constitution. The Minister will undoubtedly see it differently, but the question to her is how many examples she knows, apart from the ICS and the so-called bilateral "Investor-State Dispute Settlement" mechanisms, of international courts to which private parties have direct access without having to go to court first. Is there such a court for workers or for disadvantaged citizens? Or are only multinationals entitled to such privileges? It also affects our legal order and our sovereignty. I'd like a response from the Minister. And the question to the fellow senators is: can a treaty which is seen by so many experts as contrary to our Constitution be accepted? Even if you judge that conflict differently, you have to think three times before you approve a bill that raises such questions about its legality. After all, here is also a core task for us as the First Chamber. The fact that Canadian multinationals, as well as American via Canadian subsidiaries, and their shareholders have direct access to the ICS, so without having to exhaust the national legal process first, makes the road to claims even shorter. In addition, these claims at such a special investor court are expected to be much higher than in our national legal system. I mentioned a similar system in an interruption earlier. That is the Energy Charter, which a majority of the House of Representatives, including D66, is now quite rightly seeking to get rid of, precisely because of the ISDS system. Through this similar treaty, the German energy giants RWE and Uniper have now demanded EUR 2.4 billion for the closure of coal power plants. If that is granted, that money must be coughed up by the taxpayer. And this as a result of democratic policy choices made by the Netherlands. Madness! That is absolutely unacceptable. Does the Minister consider such claims against his own cabinet policy to be normal? I'd like a response. Now, in answering the many questions from this Chamber, the Minister repeatedly points out that there is no reason to expect an increase in claims from Canada based on CETA, but there is no logic here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr President, may I put a question to Mr Van Apeldoorn? Is it true that the Energy Charter has a system of the past and that it is a completely different system than we are now getting under CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u118	No, that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u119	Isn't it true that the system under the Energy Charter still allows lawyers to be appointed by parties? However, the CETA system appoints permanent judges who can settle a difference at first and second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u120	Mr President, I shall be brief. As I have just said, there are procedural differences between CETA's Investor Court System and an Investor-State Dispute Settlement mechanism, as included in the Energy Charter, for example. Those are procedural differences. We also think that these procedural differences are positive for the ICS, which is an improvement. However, the fundamental principle remains the same, namely that it is a court for only business, in practice the large companies and their shareholders. This still makes it an arbitration court for multinationals. It's procedurally redesigned. The fact that these judges have been appointed permanently makes a difference, but that still makes it a parallel legal system outside our national legal system. I've argued that many times now. I can repeat that. It's in my line, too. Companies and shareholders have the opportunity to cross national courts. They will not have to exhaust national justice first. This is the fundamental and fundamental agreement between the two systems: a parallel legal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u121	Finally, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u122	Is it difficult to confess wrongly to colleague Van Apeldoorn? Next, do we not also have disciplinary proceedings in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u123	I do not go into Mrs Oomen's comment. I have answered the question neatly and I think Mrs Oomen can read it back in the Acts. Let me repeat my sentences from earlier. They may have slipped away. In answering the many questions of this Chamber, the Minister repeatedly points out that there is no reason to expect an increase in claims from Canada based on CETA, but there is simply no logic here. Isn't this just going to give Canadian and American investors a chance to sue that they didn't have before? So there will be a new opportunity, through an exclusive court especially for multinationals. Does the Minister recognise that with the ICS these foreign investors will soon have an opportunity to sue the Dutch government and the policy pursued by the Netherlands that they did not have before? The government may argue that it is not afraid of the so-called regulatory chill effect, which may arise from the possibility of such billions of claims, but of course there is that effect. Of course, this is a deterrent effect and governments will sometimes become more cautious in implementing, for example, certain environmental policies. Such an effect, whereby governments at the preliminary stage refrain from certain policies, because they fear such billions of claims, is often difficult to demonstrate, but that does not mean that it does not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u124	Because it's hard to prove, we have to assume it exists. That's a scientifically interesting argument. Now I'm talking about something else... I thought the microphone only did this to Mr Otten, but now it does to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u125	It still cracks, so there's a difference, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u126	I am concerned about the state of law question. Mr Van Apeldoorn also referred to an ongoing case before the court about a claim for damages which would now be pending. Is it conceivable to him that there should be a political ruling that the Dutch Government should not pay compensation to such an investor? Is it conceivable that such a statement should be made in the Chamber, perhaps even on the initiative of Mr Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u127	I do not know exactly what Mr Backer is asking. We have always been a stated opponent of the Energy Charter. We find it absurd that energy giants like Uniper and RWE can file such billions of claims. What if it were imposed on the government? Then it is up to the government to respond. My point is that we should avoid this in the future by a, leaving the Energy Charter, preferably today, and by b, not here in the Senate tomorrow, approving the CETA Convention with this special court. Mr President, I forgot Mr Backer's first comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u128	I'm interested in the trias politician. I am concerned about the fact that everything is found in politics, including matters and investments and so on, but that the judge will ultimately have to decide. That could be a national judge. That could be an international judge. The whole point of Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech is that this should not be allowed because he believes that some investors are not entitled to claims. In other words, you make a distinction in the rule of law between parties who may or may not make claims. That, in my view, is directly contrary to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u129	No, I didn't say that at all. Then Mr Backer misunderstood me. The government also maintains that disadvantaged parties in the Dutch legal system also have access. If a company considers that there has been expropriation on unjustified grounds or with insufficient compensation, the course to the national court is open. The SP has nothing against that. In fact, I agree with Mr Backer that this is one of the foundations of the rule of law. So there is no light in that between me and the D66 group. We object to a special arbitration court outside our national legal system, which only companies and shareholders have access to. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u130	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u131	Now I remember what Mr Backer's other point was. It's hard to prove, isn't it? That's because of the following. If you, as a government, decide in the preliminary stage 'we may not be pursuing this policy; we had it in mind', it may not be visible, but it may indeed be a'regulatory chill' effect. I will continue my speech. Moreover, the VIPHof for CETA multinationals has the possibility to grant damages claims on the basis of so-called indirect expropriation, a form that Dutch administrative law does not know at all. The concept of indirect expropriation is also broadly defined in Annex 8-A. This again broadens the possibilities for multinationals to sue governments. Although the ICS recognises the right of governments to conduct policies in the public interest, even if this reduces investors' profits, it does not recognise the consequences of this being excessive. It is then up to the ICS........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that undoubtedly creates room for the viphof to come up with statements that might go against the public interest. Although the CETA Contracting Parties recognise the so-called right to regulate, this does not mean that policy autonomy, the democratic decision-making of measures in the general interest, cannot be affected in practice. In any case, the SP Group considers this to be a strange figure: to conclude a treaty in which it appears necessary to clarify the right of governments to regulate, to introduce their own laws and regulations, and therefore to use a common interpretation tool. Surely we should not enter into any trade agreements in which such a self-evident right of sovereign countries is in danger of being questioned by anyone at all? There is certainly that doubt now, despite all the interpretations given, explanations and other inserts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u132	The history of this explanation has to do with the parliament of Wallonia and a number of other countries, because it was questioned that this would apply. Now it has been explicitly recorded and now Mr Van Apeldoorn says: 'Oh, this is dubious!'
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u133	No, then Mr Backer misunderstood me again. I'm not saying it's questionable that it was recorded. I am referring to the fact that there are many doubts and, as far as my group is concerned, legitimate doubts as to whether CETA can affect the right to regulate of the parties. Those doubts are there. I have just argued that the right to regulate is affected in practice. This has forced the parties to make a statement on this, also in the light of what has happened in Wallonia. That already indicates that this treaty, this comprehensive Comprehensive Treaty, goes far too far. We're not against trade. Nor are we opposed to partly lowering tariffs. But we are not in favour of liberalising not only trade, but also investment and services in all areas. That's neoliberalism. Mr. Chairman. As if all this is not bad enough, within CETA only the protection of investors is legally enforceable. The vaguely formulated agreements in the areas of sustainability and workers' rights are not, as is generally known. These agreements are really butter soft and not legally enforceable. For those who think that the so-called Single Entry Point, also known as a complaint mechanism or a hotline, offers some relief, I would like to quote four critical PvdA members in another opinion piece, from last week, in the Volkskrant: "However, nothing is changing. That hotline is a paper tiger: it has no formal position vis-à-vis ICS." Can the Minister confirm this? Can the Minister confirm that the hotline does not change tittel or jota to CETA and thus to the ICS? Moreover, companies may also complain to this so-called complaint mechanism if they consider that they do not have sufficient access to third-country markets. That gives companies even more opportunities. The same applies to what I just said about what we received a letter on for the weekend: an even more detailed version of these guidelines with regard to the hotline. It still doesn't change CETA itself. If we really want to move towards sustainable and fair trade, then we should not want CETA. Mr. Chairman. Another serious objection from my group to CETA is that it has also been mentioned earlier about this, and yet in another way it undermines democracy. CETA is a so-called "living treaty" aimed at increasingly harmonising regulation on the Canadian and European sides. This could mean Canada adopting European standards, but also the other way around. The problem here is that we, the Dutch legislature, as laid down in the Constitution, have nothing to say about this. This is the case, although it may well involve a form of regulatory adjustment. The Convention delegates independent powers to the so-called Joint Committee and to shady working groups, consisting of EU and Canadian officials. We cannot know who these officials are. The unelected Joint Committee is not merely a consultative body, but, as several legal scholars have argued, actually exercises legislative powers. In answering our questions, the Minister acknowledges that neither national parliaments nor the European Parliament have any involvement in this. Nor can they exercise any control over these supranational committees. Can the Minister explain again why she does not see this as an undermining of our democracy? Mr. Chairman. The fact that CETA is a neo-liberal treaty is also reflected in the way everything is aimed at liberalisation. Only public services that are excluded in advance and on a so-called negative list will not be liberalised. For everything that's left, it's automatically open to Canadian investors. Once liberalisation has started, it cannot be reversed. For example, if the Netherlands had a law stating that in a particular sector no more than 30% foreign property is allowed, and this would then be increased by that country to 40%, then this could not be reversed later. That's weird, isn't it? 'Cause maybe there could be really good reasons for wanting to take it back. But even if it is our own democratic decision, that is not possible. Once liberalised, it has always been liberalised. Do you see why business and, in particular, large companies have lobbied so hard for CETA and are now so strongly advocating ratification? If you are wondering where this example comes from: it comes from the government itself; it is in the response. CETA ensures that what is already deregulated can no longer be reregulated. That is the so-called standstill clause. If a country decides at some point to liberalise further, this cannot be reversed either. That's the so-called ratchet mechanism. The Government's further reply to the Court explains this neatly. I quote: 'The standstill mechanism and the ratchet mechanism thus define, on the one hand, the existing degree of liberalisation at the time of entry into force of the Treaty and, on the other hand, ensure that future unilateral liberalisations are automatically part of the Treaty'. So that's what I call a neoliberal treaty. But above all, it is also an undemocratic treaty, a treaty that places our democracy partly on sale for the interests of multinationals, because it restricts our future policy autonomy. Does the Minister agree with me that this will restrict our policy autonomy? And yes, the public services on negative lists are excluded, but this is not just about the question: what do you keep completely public and what do you leave to the market? It is also about regulating the market, for example in the case of a pandemic or an energy crisis. I fully agree with Mr Koole that this is important. Mr. Chairman. The last part of my speech contains for those who place people and our democracy above multinationals, more than enough reason to put CETA here in the Senate tomorrow. But the SP Group has more objections. I'll be a little shorter on that, given the time, but also because others here, I think, will still think about it. CETA is not only a neo-liberal but also a fossil treaty. As a result of CETA, CO emissions are not only increasing in any way, which is also reflected in the EU's own studies. The recently discussed investment protection in CETA also protects investments by the fossil industry, including Canada's large oil industry, including its most polluting form: tar sand oil. That is not from this time, I ask the Minister. This is entirely in line with Mrs Karimi's speech. How does this relate to the climate objectives of this cabinet? Now let's really go dough over our planet? Mr. Chairman. As far as the commercial part of CETA is concerned, the government and other proponents have often thrown sand into our eyes. At least an attempt has been made to do so by constantly emphasising that we do not have to worry about the liberalised imports of Canadian products, because they simply have to keep up with European standards. Apart from the fact that we do not know whether these standards could be reduced in the future in the framework of CETA and by all those undemocratic committees and working groups, and even the European precautionary principle could be called into question, it is not just product standards. At least that should not be the only issue in trade. Fair trade should not be limited to the question of which quality requirements, for example which food safety requirements, the goods to be imported should be met. Fair trade should also enable countries to make demands on production methods. How is what is on our plate produced, for example? Contrary to what is often said, Canada is not at all such a progressive country in this area. Canada is also well behind in some environmental and animal welfare requirements. Does the Minister recognize that? Does the Minister recognise that, in principle, it would be good if we looked not only at product requirements in world trade, but also at production requirements, so that differences in the way we produce can be reflected in higher rates? All this has not been taken into account in CETA, because almost all tariffs are completely abolished, including in the agricultural sector. My group believes that this is a bad thing as long as the standards in Canada, for example in the field of animal welfare, are far from being at our level. The fact that Canadian farmers do not have to meet the same requirements as our farmers, I understand that they have now also arrived in the Kazernestraat, which means, of course, unfair competition. It means that farmers who, quite rightly, have to meet ever higher environmental and animal welfare requirements within CETA do not have a level playing field. Therefore, it is not for nothing that several farmers' organisations are fiercely opposed to CETA. Mr. Chairman. I should like to conclude my speech. The key question is: do we want to go forward or backwards? Do we opt for an essentially reactionary free trade and investment treaty from the era of long-disrupted hyperglobalisation? Or do we opt for progress, for fair world trade, for trade agreements with respect for our planet, for humans and for animals? Mr. Chairman. Proponents call CETA a must, because Canada would be such a progressive country, a country with which we share so many values. That may be so, but CETA's values are far from progressive. If those values are good to us, let's stop with CETA. If we think people are going over multinationals, let's stop with CETA. In fact, I still hope that the PvdA Group will agree. We have just heard that, but that is not clear from their explanation of vote. Surely it cannot be that the PvdA, which has been telling the voters for almost three years that it has good reasons to be against CETA, because CETA is bad for people, animals, the environment and animal welfare and is an outdated treaty, is now going to explain to us that it is in favour? The minister will be very excited, but many PvdA voters who thought the PvdA would choose the right thing to do here have checked. The vote isn't until tomorrow. Today we heard the protest outside. Many PvdA members are also stirring. With them, I call once again on the PvdA Group to vote against this neoliberal and fossil treaty. In the meantime, I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u135	May I ask the people in the gallery not to make any noises? Otherwise, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to have the public gallery evacuated. Then I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u136	I would ask Members in the Chamber to remain silent. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, who will speak on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u137	I'll be here from Monday morning to Wednesday morning. I am very happy to prepare myself for that, although it is not the task of the First Chamber to go about legislation in this way. Mr. Chairman. It has taken a long time, but there is now a debate on the ratification of the European Union's trade agreement with Canada. That treaty with Canada is a snapshot. I say this because after this treaty there will be adjustments to the ongoing dialogue between Canada and the EU. It will also play a role in the negotiations on future treaties, in particular on sustainability. The Treaty is the result of a negotiation process in which the European Commission had to refer it to the Council and the European Parliament. There is no transfer of sovereignty. According to the EU Treaty, the European Commission has the power to create the internal market, promote growth and, through treaties, promote the common market of half a billion people. The CETA Convention is already largely in force. Exports have increased considerably. This is very important for agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is no wonder that we really have to say here that LTO, a critical organisation at the moment, welcomes the Treaty and welcomes its ratification. For Canada, it is important that the EU and Canada mark their position vis-à-vis other major trading nations, such as the United States, China and the United Kingdom. All imports from Canada must meet European requirements of food quality. Companies exporting from Canada must meet European standards in the field of plant and animal health and food safety. That's a condition for an export licence. It is also controlled by our country, including the Food and War Authority. Our agricultural sector is a global player. This is not only because of the innovative power and quality, but also because of the relatively low international environmental burden. Mr. Chairman. The arbitration. The EU, Member States and Canada may adopt and implement their own laws and regulations on economic activities. The key areas of public policy are protected: public health, social affairs, safety and the environment. There is also protection of consumers and privacy. The opinion of the Council of State shows that the Convention is not contrary to European laws and regulations. This has also been demonstrated at the expert meeting. There is an abundance of the Court of Justice's ruling following a manoeuvre in Wallonia. We are now dealing with the ICS system, the better successor to the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, ISDS. ICS is a good step, for which Minister Ploumen has been strongly committed to it repeatedly, supported by the Chamber. The ICS is permanent, independent and public. The Judges shall be appointed for a term of five years and the case shall be dealt with in the first and second instance. All this didn't apply to ISDS at all. It is essential that the public authorities cannot be sued if policies are in the public interest in the areas of safety, environment and health. It must be a company's charge of undermining legal certainty. Think of the expropriation. Then the public interest is not at stake. My group considers it important that CETA supports investments in Member States with lower-ranking legal systems than ours and Canada's. The Canadian government still supports this treaty, including ICS, despite other views. Civil society organisations are involved and heard in the procedures. Thanks to Mr Koole and the role of the government, this process has become more transparent. Time limits are more clearly defined. Sustainability in EU trade policy will be strengthened. Under pressure from the threatening Dutch vote against, the European Commission has now made a series of commitments. They affect the CETA Convention only partially, but they affect the negotiations on new, future treaties. Canada is involved and is also willing to take on new commitments on sustainability under TSD. Recently, good practice has been used to properly monitor the ICS procedure and to see the improvements compared to ISDS. It has been asked whether there is a transfer of sovereignty. About five lawyers recently stated in an opinion document in the FD that there was no question of removing jurisdiction from the Dutch court, but rather of bringing an action based on the Convention, before a neutral court. I would like a response from the Minister to this view. Is there indeed no transfer of sovereignty? An investor has to choose. A parallel process is not possible. It is a matter of proceeding against the damage to property. Can the Minister assure my group that there is no parallel procedure possible? I'd like a clear answer. We understand that a choice must be made. Stopping after signing and heavy negotiations is not justified and does our name as a member of the European family no good. The European family needs unity, strength and support for a loyal partner, Canada, who is now shoulder-to-shoulder with our continent, just as during the liberation of the Second World War. It is striking that the coalition in Germany, with the Greens and the SPD, will ratify the treaty. The procedure in the Bundestag has already begun. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of stopping or ratifying. There will be a quote: "The national isolation and international reputation damage for the Netherlands will be great, as will the damage for Europe as a united player against the competitive power blocks China and Russia. In view of the current tensions in the world, this is a price which the Labour Party should not now want to bear." This is a quote from the Volkskrant commentator last Saturday. I agree with Mr Backer: the better is the enemy of good. Finally, Mr President. The world order has changed in one day on February 24th. The world order of law has also been trampled on since 24 February. A war is raging in Europe. For my group, the international situation weighs heavily. A united, strong Europe is also good for sustainability, which will certainly be more strongly addressed in future treaties. Canadian soldiers fought for liberation at the end of World War II. I was 3 years old then. Canada is a loyal ally, then and now. We share the same values. Mr. Chairman. My group awaits the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to congratulate Mr. Backer on his birthday. He's aged another year. Wisdom comes with the years, so maybe he'll vote against it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u140	Less young. He's become less young.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u141	That's how you can see it, but I'm just gonna assume the wisdom that comes with the years. So maybe he's gonna surprise us. Mr. Chairman. CETA is a mixed treaty that evokes mixed feelings. Thanks to the Brussels comrades, we have nothing more to say about a substantial part of the treaty, let alone to decide. The time when we ourselves were discussing our trade agreements and mutual investment with other countries is over. These powers have long been squandered and fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union. Therefore, the part of CETA covered by this EU competence has been in force since 21 September 2017. In this respect, decision-making in the Senate is completely unnecessary. Mr. Chairman. You then wonder why these matters are included in this treaty and are not regulated in a separate treaty. Is this to draw Members of Parliament over the line so that they can more easily agree with that part of CETA that we are still discussing and that several Members of Parliament face fierce resistance? For which Member of the European Parliament can agree to giving away the powers of elected representatives, to sidestep the national courts, or to ignore the Constitution? The fact that this is sensitive is demonstrated by the behaviour of various parties in this house. They prefer to reflect as little as possible when it comes to CETA, despite their lovingly calling the Senate the "chambre de réflexion." Mr. Chairman. Of course our merchant spirit loves good export figures. But that also applies to the other party, Canada, which also wants to wear out its products. The latter may well be reflected in the government's policy of bullying away peasantry. The nitrogen crisis, climate change and so on; it has all been reviewed. Despite everything, the farmer plowed through and pushed his products to the top of the world. Many Canadian farmer can be jealous of that. Mr. Chairman. CETA requires Canadian products to comply with European standards, but the pain is in the way of production. How the product is produced does not make any difference within CETA. And what about hormone meat, genetic engineering, animal welfare? According to the Minister, none of this would be on the agenda. Since our government is not even able to prevent abuses in Dutch slaughterhouses, you can honestly wonder how it can control something that takes place more than 6,000 kilometers away. Here in the Netherlands a part of the halal meat simply disappears in the regular slaughter line. It just happens right under our noses. The ignorant consumer, who is horrified by halal slaughter, simply gets it on his plate, because labelling of stunned slaughter now seems to be very complicated. Statistically, imported meat is completely a black box. The statistical trade data do not indicate whether the imported meat comes from halal slaughter. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, our farmers are severely put behind us by a tangle of regulation, which is the cause of the fact that we are sitting on a stamp with too many people. That stamp isn't getting bigger, but it's getting fuller. In spite of all these obstacles, farmers have invested in animal welfare for years. This is contrary to the Canadian farmers; they only have to do with a voluntary code of conduct. This will allow them to produce cheaper. It is an illusion that Canada will adapt to higher standards. Practice shows that the temptation is great to choose the best earning model. Mr. Chairman. We have seen this before with the batteries that are banned in the Netherlands. They were exported to Ukraine, and then they went back to importing the eggs from the caged chickens. I am not even talking about the massive quantities of Ukrainian chicken meat that are being driven into the Netherlands with trucks full of the Netherlands. Apparently, we are allowed to consume, but not to produce. It is therefore not for nothing that CETA does not provide for the reduction of EU customs duties on chicken meat and eggs. 'Cause we're gonna get that for a little bit. Next up is the pigs. The first step is already being taken: the reform of pig farming. Once the Canadians come up with cheaper products, our products disappear or we have to lower our standards. All animal welfare efforts then go so, plop, the salty sop. Okay, we're getting bigger quotas for dairy products. But can the Netherlands use it? The milk quotas were abolished, remember? However, growing milk production was soon restricted by phosphate ceilings. It is an illusion to think that the nitrogen space that falls free goes to the dairy farmers. The cabinet wants to get rid of those dairy farmers. That space rather goes to building the Netherlands to facilitate the population growth caused by mass immigration. Mr. Chairman. The Christian coalition parties, with the Christian Union first, have the mouths full of production in the region. But after they have extradited the farmers to the higher powers, it is now up to the judiciary. The ratification of CETA opens the door to the establishment of the Investment Court System, abbreviated ICS, which has the task of resolving disputes between Canadian investors and the parties to the treaty. ICS is the bilateral investment court the European Commission is dreaming of. Tasty tests in your own autonomous, supranational legal order: which elite man doesn't want that? Nothing national law. Nothing national judge. It's all being bypassed. Judges, who often have a D66 preference, were initially dismissed by their own D66 Minister Kaag, who, as Foreign Trade Minister, waved the scepter, when it came to dispute resolution. That's what happens when you introduce someone who wasn't a member of your own political party to a ministerial post. Anyway, now a VVD minister gets to finish the job. Find the differences. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the ICS is the bypass of multinationals to obtain their rights outside the national legal system. It's not gonna end here. The European Commission sees this bypass as the new standard for all EU trade and investment agreements. Say goodbye to government measures in the public interest. If such a measure affects the investment interest of a foreign investor, the Dutch State may simply get a claim. Despite the right to regulate, this can be done, for example, in the case of indirect expropriation or incorrect treatment. Mr President, of course a Canadian investor can go to national courts. After all, the investor is given a choice: either through the national court or through the ICS. The investor will go for the highest claim and where the probability of success is greatest. That is not with the national court, which will place a case in a Dutch context, will look at the broader interests and also tends to lower the claim for damages, as opposed to the court within the ICS, which will place the investment interest, with CETA in its hand, above the general interest, giving companies more rights. Mr. Chairman. Due to the threat of damages claims, there is a good chance that the government will refrain from taking certain measures. Canada itself, after paying $300 million in claims and legal fees, has become poorer and wiser, and for the new trade agreement with the United States and Mexico, apart from an ISDS arrangement, which is also an investment arbitration court. In the meantime, however, the same Canada is not disgusting about putting us on such an investment arbitration court. And what can you expect from a nation that froze the bank accounts of demonstrative truck drivers? Those were their own citizens, for God's sake. Well, that promises something for the future. The Minister indicated that the ICS was not necessary for the Netherlands, but that it was particularly important for investment protection in agreements with countries where national legislation would not provide sufficient legal certainty. Is this the case in the Netherlands? No. Is this the case in other EU Member States? Yes. Conclusion: because other EU Member States are not in order, we must take more risks. Mr. Chairman. Not only national judges have checked, but also various civil society organisations. Not that the PVV-group is getting so hot from that incestuous network of NGOs and other subsidies, but for the PvdA they're hot. It hurts them that this network is being demoted to be a cogent friend of the court as amicus curiae. Amicus curiae is just a sweetener, a pacifier. I am also very curious whether the PvdA Group is going to be content with this, given the previous statements in the media. The relevant PvdA senator indicated that there was an opportunity to strengthen the influence of the NGOs and social parties without tinkering with the Treaty. Another pacifier! Where have we seen this before? By the Ukrainian goat path of Rutte! The big question is which PvdA'ers are going to be the goat of Rutte again. Mr. Chairman. While the Minister has clearly stated that Parliament must not change a letter to the Treaty, the officials of the Treaty Committees may, after ratification, do so. They are allowed to work on the treaty to their heart's content, to take binding decisions and to draw up rules. All this outside the control of the national parliaments and the European Parliament. And in order to rub the parliamentary powerlessness into it, the parliaments will be informed afterwards. Well, that's what I'm talking about. This differs from Article 81 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the adoption of laws shall be carried out jointly by the Government and the States-General. By agreeing to this bill, these powers are transferred to the Joint Committee, which is contrary to Article 81 of our Constitution. Mr. Chairman. There is even more to it in relation to the Constitution. I am referring to the intended handling of the claims against the State. Under investment protection, these are civil claims, which can also be called claims. Article 112, first paragraph, of the Constitution provides that the jurisdiction of disputes concerning civil rights and claims shall be conferred on the judiciary. By accepting a parallel legal system, the ICS, parts of civil law, which fall within the jurisdiction of the Dutch courts, are transferred to international judges. This is also a derogation from the Constitution. In the event that a treaty contains provisions derogating from the Constitution, a two-thirds majority in both chambers is required for ratification. It is therefore not easy to understand that this treaty came through the House of Representatives by a narrow majority. It is therefore to be hoped that the opposition parties here in this House will all be better advised. I therefore call on the Senate, on behalf of the PVV Group, to comply with Article 91 (3) of the Constitution and to put the present legislative proposal to the vote in such a way that it can only be approved by two thirds of the votes in this Chamber. To this end, I shall table the next motion requesting that it be put to the vote before the votes on the legislative proposals on documents. 35154 and 35155. This motion was co-signed by the SGP, the Otten Group, JA21 and the Animal Party. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Otten, Mr Beukker, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Trade Agreement contains CETA provisions derogating from the Constitution;]] [[noting that, pursuant to Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, in the event of a treaty containing provisions derogating from or requiring derogations from the Constitution, the Chambers may only grant approval by at least two thirds of the votes cast;]] [[declares that it can only approve the present legislative proposal 35154 on the CETA Trade Agreement if at least two thirds of the Members of Parliament agree to the proposal in question,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u142	I am somewhat surprised, however, because the constitutionality of the Treaty has already been mentioned once in connection with a Walloon hiccup towards the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. There it has been clearly established that everything is in accordance with the Convention. The question of sovereignty has also been raised. The same question was answered in an opinion request to the Council of State of November 2018. The Council of State has delivered an opinion saying that this is in accordance with the Constitution. Does Mrs Faber know that advice? Otherwise, I am very much prepared to highlight that before this motion is put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u143	Of course I know that advice, but the fact is that if we set up the ICS, we will transfer certain powers from our national courts to that arbitration court. So you're taking away a part of what our national judges are about, and that just requires a two-thirds majority of this Chamber. They can give that advice, but we're the Senate here. We're in charge of our own business. The PVV Group and the co-signatories of this motion believe that it is sparring with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u144	I still have some comments to make. That would be true, Mrs Faber, if individuals and companies had no choice in the legal system. The whole opinion of the Council of State is based on the fact that, because of this option, there can be no conflict with the Constitution. And that choice is there. We know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u145	I am aware of this choice, but this legislative proposal creates a situation which is contrary to the Constitution. You just don't want to. That's what's gonna happen. When no one goes to the ICS, there will be no opposition to the Constitution, but they will. So you create that situation and you just don't want to. I really do not understand why Members of the First Chamber go along with the creation of a creation that is rubbing our Constitution. It is against the interests of the Constitution, and that simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u146	I will reply to what Mr Van Ballekom said. There are people listening or watching, and they may get the impression that we are doing something that is not right, but something is not right in Mrs Faber's reasoning. There's no transfer of authority. An additional power has been created on the basis of the Treaty. So nothing's being removed. That is exactly the point Mr Van Ballekom and the Council of State are making. Those questions have already been asked to the Minister and the Government. You don't believe the answer. It's okay. That is a political choice, but you should not be suggesting that we should do something here that is contrary to the Constitution. We don't. Does Mrs Faber still agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u147	Wisdom comes with years. Anyway, I'm gonna question that right now. That's a joke in between. The point is: I am still convinced that we are doing something here that is contrary to the Constitution. Mr. Backer may have a different opinion on that. That's all fine. Mr. Van Ballekom may have that other opinion, too. I'm gonna go explain it to you a little bit more. Damage claims against the State on the basis of investment protection lie with the national courts, which are civil claims, also known as claims, and judgments of civil rights disputes and debt restructuring. If you put an organisation next to it where you could settle it, you're going against the Constitution. You're creating that situation. If the Senate votes in favour of this bill, it will create a situation that will rub off on the Constitution. So we just shouldn't want that. I know that the Constitution is already a dead letter in many cases, but let us, as a senate, not continue to promote it here. Or is Mr. Backer trying to say that the trial of civil rights and debt is not the responsibility of the national courts? If you would like to say that, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u148	No. Mrs Faber repeats the position. It's okay. It repeats the point of the claims, which remain. But my point is not only my point, but also that of the Council of State, which has created a competence on the basis of the Treaty. The Constitution allows you to conclude treaties. Under that treaty, there is a power to make a claim to another body. That is not contrary to the Constitution. That doesn't even rub it. That is entirely in line with the Constitution. Maybe you'd like to reconsider after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u149	I'm not going to reconsider anything. The point remains that a situation has been created that is squandering with the Constitution. Then we have a point about the joint committees. They can still change certain things. Within our Constitution, legislation is made by parliament and government, in collusion. The Joint Committee can make new rules, yes, it can do so which we have no control over; we will only be informed afterwards. The control function, which is enshrined and enshrined in the Constitution, is also excluded. That is the second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u150	I have a question for Mrs Faber. There have been two interruptions, in which it has been said: something is added, so that does not rub with the Constitution. But I do not hear the following in the interruptions by Mr Backer, among others. If a company chooses to approach the ICS, the Dutch State cannot oppose it. This means, as has already been pointed out in other judgments of the Court, that something is actually being taken away, because the Dutch State, which is being addressed, cannot say: just do it to the Dutch judge on the basis of the Constitution. Isn't that the essential point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u151	Mr President, on a point of order. The Group of the Party of Animals, with three members, has used two Members to conduct this debate and Mrs Faber is now going to souffle on a constitutional point. I know that Mr Nicolaï is very good at this, but Mrs Faber can do it herself. I object to this course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u152	That is true, but Mr Nicolaï may speak. I already said something about it this morning. It's unusual. I also agreed with the group that it should make appropriate use of this. That is what the group is doing in my view. Mr Nicolaï may ask a question. If you consider that to be'souffle', that is your interpretation, but I will give Mrs Faber the chance to answer that question. Shortly, of course, as is the case with all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u153	I'm actually quite happy with Mr. Nicolaï's addition. He put it very nicely. I wish Mr. Backer had. Good. Mr President, I will conclude. During the preparation of this debate, a strong emphasis was placed on the special relationship between Canada and the Netherlands. After all, the Canadians are our liberators and that is a gun factor. The PVV Group is grateful that thanks to the Canadians we can live in freedom. But the Canadian ambassador also said in the Senate's plenary that we should not vote for CETA because they freed the Netherlands, but because it is a good trade agreement. However, this is not a good agreement for the citizens of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Prast of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a small warning in advance, although it may also be reassuring; that depends on the listeners. I will not repeat the word 'neoliberalism'. CETA provides more trade and more jobs. Some products become cheaper and consumers can choose from more products. That's literally what it says on the site of the government. Are these targets of CETA anno 2022 worth pursuing? I'll start trading. When CETA was closed, there was no zoonoses pandemic. This came in 2019 for the cabinet as a complete surprise, like a black swan, in the words of Minister Hoekstra. Meanwhile, we have 40,000 deaths, tens of thousands of people with post-covid complaints, 30% of whom are still sick at home after a year, and a loss of 320,000 healthy years of life. Great suffering for people, especially the elderly, who have had to wait years longer, or are still waiting, for their hip, knee or cataract surgery. Lost years, while for many it could have been the last golden years. The expert committee zoonoses, set up by VWS and LNV, writes in its report that the Netherlands is a potential hotspot for zoonotic pandemics, including because it is a trading country. More trade, greater zoonoses risk. According to this committee, the fact that live animals have been transported much more frequently and over longer distances over the past decade is also a risk factor for a subsequent zoonoses pandemic. Mr. Chairman. Transport of live animals and food is in the top six trade between the Netherlands and Canada. In the letter accompanying the zoonosis report, the cabinet states that it is committed to preventing a pandemic as much as possible in the future, both at national and international level, and writes: "The cabinet has long been committed to reducing the transport time of live animals in order to reduce animal welfare within the EU (...). The risk of zoonoses is an additional theme to be taken into account (...)." I ask the Minister how the cabinet will take the zoonoses risk into account in the proposal to ratify CETA and how this bill relates to the government's announced commitment to prevent a pandemic in the future as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. The second objective of CETA is: more jobs. We currently have an overstretched labour market and we have a structural shortage of staff in care and education. In particular, the shortage of care will only increase. The more jobs are created elsewhere, the less potential labour supply remains for care. In recent years, a lot of late boomers have retired. I'm one of them. That continues with the first post-boomers in the coming years. In Canada, the shortage of staff due to an ageing population is as big a problem as it is with us. So CETA will not provide us with a stream of care staff from Canada. Whoever works in home care knows that lonely elderly people would rather have a human being than a robot around them. If there are indeed more jobs created by CETA, where does the Cabinet intend to get the people who are going to occupy them? How does the cabinet prevent these jobs from competing with those in health care and education? Then there is the third CETA target: lower consumer prices for some products. This can be desirable if society wants to encourage people to consume more of these products, for example from the point of view of health prevention or sustainability. I have found nowhere that imports from Canada are about such products. On the contrary. I ask the Minister which consumer products will be cheaper thanks to CETA and why she wants to promote their consumption. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission estimates that CETA will increase dairy trade between the EU and Canada by hundreds of percent by 2030. Minister Staghouwer recently expressed the hope that the food shortage caused by the war in Eastern Europe would lead to greater awareness of our diet. How does this fit in with the proposal to ratify CETA? Are the members of the cabinet on the same page? I'd like a response. Other speakers have already mentioned: how can the government be credible when it makes demands in the field of animal suffering and carcinogenic plant protection products and, at the same time, with CETA, encourages the import of goods produced without such requirements being met? This leads to false competition for Dutch farmers, who have to meet stricter conditions than their competitors in Canada. This is also why many Dutch farmers and environmental organisations are strongly opposed to the CETA Convention. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on that. Mr. Chairman. Suppose you do find the goals of CETA worthy. Is CETA a suitable means of achieving this? The Consumers' Union, the FNV, farmers' unions and environmental organisations do not think so and call on us to vote against ratification. VNO-NCW is in favour and sought publicity last week with a column entitled "Who dives well in CETA sees that old arguments do not apply." It is also said by other parties, at least by one opposition party in this Chamber. According to the employers' club, binding sustainability chapters would make CETA a climate mileage, but these chapters contain definitions such as: the Parties aim to promote sustainable development, promote the integration of sustainability considerations and improve compliance with international labour and environmental agreements. To improve alone! Not perfecting, but better than it is now. A sustainability chapter with such vague definitions and without concrete standards is nothing. The employers' association also reports that Canada has improved the rules for long-distance animal transport. That's right, but it's a little misleading. With this improvement, Canada is not even close to what we find acceptable in the Netherlands and the rest of the EU. In Canada, the maximum permitted journey time without food, drink and rest for cows, sheep and goats has fallen from 48 hours to 36 hours; even worse than in the US, where it is 28 hours. In the EU, the maximum distance is 8 hours. VNO-NCW is also wrong when it writes about one of the most criticized parts of CETA, investor protection, that it has been revolutionaryly renewed. Sure, there are differences between ICS and ISDS. In ICS, investors can only claim financial compensation, not withdrawal of measures. But that also reduces democratic freedom because governments consider the risk of compensation damage in policy. It could be paralyzed. The compensation to be paid also hinders democracy, because the government cannot spend taxpayers' money that has to be paid to investors on anything else, something that we as First Chamber with the Second Chamber democratically decide on. Investors have rights but no duties and cannot be charged. Arbiters also have a financial incentive in the ICS to judge in favour of investors. There is no requirement to be aware of issues such as human rights and financial stability. I'll come back to that last one. The compensation is based on lost future profits and can therefore lead to much higher amounts than possible through the national courts. My group colleague Peter Nicolaï has already referred to this. UNCTAD warns governments about megaclaims about corona damage. That's through ISDS. Lawyer offices are getting hot. That kind of claim can happen under ICS, can't it? I mean, if there is another pandemic in the future, for example. I ask the Minister if she can rule out the possibility that Canadian companies will go to the ICS with an indictment of Dutch laws and regulations. I also ask her whether she takes into account the possibility that investor protection will cost the Netherlands a lot of money. I asked Mr Backer in an interruption, because that was the case at the time, but it was also in my speech: is it true that if another EU country violates company rights, a Canadian investor does and a Dutch investor is not allowed to go to the ICS? I'd like to hear a confirmation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We know about the Consumers' Association, the FNV, farmers' unions, environmental organisations, VNO-NCW and LTO, but there is a deafening silence in the corner of the financial sector and its regulators. I have found nothing on the websites of the Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken, the Vereniging van Insurers, De Nederlandsche Bank and the Dutch Financial Markets Authority about CETA. This is remarkable, especially since it is perhaps the most regulated industry in our country and in the European Union. I have worked for eleven years in the research department of De Nederlandsche Bank and therefore I know that it has a broad focus on social developments. I ask the Minister if she knows how the financial supervisors look at CETA and, in particular, the ICS. Has she or have her predecessors consulted DNB and the AFM about the ICS? The financial sector is rightly the most heavily regulated sector of the economy and is also one where regulation is frequently adapted. Usually it gets stricter, and for good reason. We have seen the legislative proposals come to this Chamber every time, and there will be more. I would like to hear from the Minister what effects CETA and especially ICS can have on banks, insurers and investment institutions. Suppose a Canadian bank wants to take over a Dutch big bank. This requires authorisation from the prudential supervisor, formerly DNB, now the ECB. Suppose, DNB and Finance don't think this acquisition is a good idea. You can come up with all kinds of reasons for that, and that's why no permit is granted. My group colleague Peter Nicolaï pointed out this morning that the arbitrators, unlike the judge, do not make a broad assessment but merely look at whether a complaint from the complainant's perspective is reasonable and fair. In this case, for example, I would think that they do not need to look at financial stability. Can the Canadian bank then go to the ICS and demand compensation for the profits they will not make by not getting permission to take over a Dutch large bank? I'd like a clear answer from the Minister. In fact, three years ago, the Royal Bank of Canada opened a branch in the Netherlands, a small office on the Zuidas, for the first time in its 150 years of existence. "We want to increase our European footprint," a spokesperson from RBC said. Another example. Suppose we introduce a law prohibiting audit firms from providing advisory services. There are parties I look at the PvdA colleagues who have been arguing for years in the Lower House. Can we expect billions of claims from the ICS? Are any of those claims possible at all? When it was in favour, then Minister Ploumen said on CETA that the parties would be given the power to take all reasonable, prudential measures. Of course, the word "reasonable" opens the door wide for all kinds of interpretations and a corridor to the ICS. However, it is not a question of whether the power to take prudential measures remains, but of whether banks, insurers, investment firms and shareholders can move to the ICS to challenge measures and demand compensation. I ask the Minister whether Canadian financial investors in the Netherlands will be able to make claims by the ICS in CETA if there are financial supervisory measures that could affect their return. Is it true that Canadian shareholders can go to the arbitration court if they don't like a government measure? Mr. Chairman. I'm moving from the financial sector to the housing market. We have a big problem in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister whether local authorities can suffer from CETA if they lay down rules to reduce the housing shortage. Can the Minister exclude, for example, that a Canadian real estate investor who, after his arrival in Amsterdam, is subject to new rules may claim compensation under CETA if he suffers from new restrictions that reduce the benefit of his property? Mr. Chairman. Eleven days ago, the European Union and New Zealand concluded negotiations on a new trade agreement. The European Council and the European Parliament still have to decide on this, but individual Member States do not have to ratify it because it does not include investment protection. In anticipation of the hoped ratification, CETA has been in force without the ICS since 2017, as we know. What difference does the Minister expect from ratification, and therefore the introduction of CETA including the ICS? Is there a type of investor that doesn't want to participate in ICS? What are the characteristics of that? The Minister must have an idea of that, so please respond. Mr. Chairman. The complaint mechanism, which was also introduced at the request of the Netherlands, would respond to the objections to the ICS, but first, this mechanism does not change the ICS, as the Minister himself said, and there is no possibility of sanctions. Recently, Commissioner Dombrovskis met a number of Dutch requests to improve the mechanism, but, if I understand correctly, this will be negotiated after the ratification of CETA. Shouldn't this be prior to ratification? Does the Minister agree that these improvements do not remove the asymmetry between investor protection and that of other stakeholders at all? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I had already promised: I leave it with these questions in the first term, although I have more than six minutes left, because I also like to leave time for the second term. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you. By the way, these are not communicating vessels, but I'll explain that to you sometime. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Godfried Bomans already knew: "Nothing new is ever said. Something new is always being said." Where were we again? Again five years ago, parts of the CETA Convention entered into force provisionally. The SGP could not support this at the time because of concerns about the consequences for sovereignty and, even then, the future of our farmers. Two and a half years ago, the SGP, in this case in the Lower House, was critical in the CETA dossier for these reasons. As we pointed out at the time, we certainly saw arguments for the CETA Convention. Canada is an important ally, which we must cherish, and the treaty offers certain trade advantages. But we also asked intrusive questions. How do we protect sectors that are particularly vulnerable to additional imports? Is a level playing field maintained in the light of uneven product standards? And was the dispute resolution mechanism fair, i.e., with equal access for businesses and civil society organisations and without the opportunity to override national policies and thus undermine democracy and national sovereignty? Unfortunately, the answer to these questions did not reassure us enough at the time. That is why CETA's usefulness and necessity were not beyond doubt and we advocated a new and balanced model for trade agreements. So much for the look in the rear-view mirror! Mr. Chairman. Now for the preview, because today we are allowed to take statements again. To our democratic duty, we want to try to do so to the best of our consciences by rethinking the relevant aspects. Is Canada still that ally and trading partner? Yes, I do. Does the treaty offer significant trade advantages? Yes, I do. But what about the risks and potential disadvantages? In that respect, there is not only light on the horizon. I shall begin with the last point of criticism, the dispute resolution mechanism. It is good that both agreements on market access and on trade and sustainable development are maintained and that companies, trade unions and NGOs can raise their concerns. Nevertheless, the remark that the operation corresponds to the general principles of good administration which apply under Dutch law is too lean for us. My questions are: what is or is the House's motion for a resolution on more democratic control and transparency of the Treaty committees? That's the Alkaya motion. What is the status of the review of the functioning of the ICS in the CETA Convention no later than five years after its entry into force? That is something the House of Representatives also asked for. Does the Minister recognise that there is and continues to be a process and decision that escapes the democratic process and the national legal order? Finally, how does the Minister assess the claim of several lawyers and a large number of professors that CETA would be in breach of the Constitution and that therefore, under the same Constitution, a two-thirds majority is required to approve it? Then there is the impact on trade and exports. One of the sectors which is potentially very vulnerable to competition and imports, which we have also pointed out in the past, is agriculture. Especially in the light of the current nitrogen crisis, this weighs particularly heavily for the SGP. In view of all the uncertainties surrounding this agreement, the timing for its adoption is quite unfortunate, and that is still to be said. On the one hand, we can see that CETA has delivered more than cost to certain sectors of agriculture. However, my questions to the Minister are: will this provide for protection measures on the Canadian side, what are the forecasts for this year and coming years and what sectors have been significantly affected by CETA? Some agricultural sectors, such as the dairy sector, have benefited from the Treaty in recent years, but in view of the government's planned policy, in particular nitrogen policy, there will be less than more exports in the near future. How does the government view in this light, namely an increasing competitive disadvantage of the Netherlands, the future benefits of agriculture from CETA? Then there is our last important concern: the level playing field. We see that the Netherlands imposes higher demands on animal welfare, for example. Does the Minister agree that this will allow Canadian competitors to produce cheaper? The cabinet states that the EU is fully competent to decide on its own standards, but so is Canada. Has it not so far been possible to get our higher quality standards accepted in Canada? In any case, will Canada not lower standards in order to simplify investments in Canada or exports to the EU? All things considered, many questions and uncertainties remain for the SGP and our hesitation so far has not changed in favour of the doubt, but I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u159	I ask Members to take their seats and welcome everyone back. The next item is the continuation of the first term of the Chamber of the debate on CETA and the Strategic Partnership Agreement. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a quote. "The ratification of a comprehensive trade agreement with a similar country like Canada is an important moment. CETA is good for workers, for consumers and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. Companies will have new and better access to the market of 35 million people. Consumers have more to choose for a lower price. CETA not only brings economic benefits, but also enables cooperation on important issues such as sustainability, labour law and animal welfare. In addition, certain concerns are unequivocally addressed in a common interpretative statement." Mr. Chairman. I can continue to promote the present treaty in the enthusiastic and warm words with which I have started my contribution. It is the enthusiasm of Mr Asscher and Mr Timmermans and Mrs Ploumen, Minister responsible at the time. I won't, because I fully agree with their appreciation. At the same time, it was difficult for my group to understand that the signing of a treaty clearly does not mean that you endorse its content and make you strong for ratification. In an explanatory statement, Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party stated during the ratification debate what was "the other side" at the time, that the compromise had been signed in the conviction that improvements would be made between the time of signature and ratification. Unfortunately, these improvements were not realised. That is why it was not possible to agree to ratification. I listened with surprise to Mrs van den Hul's speech at the time, because I know that there has never been any agreement on interim adjustments. For the sake of certainty, I have asked the government and experts to do so, and I was confirmed in my suspicion: this never happens. Every foreign trade minister knows that, especially this one. This does not, of course, mean that there are no improvements possible. I am convinced that these will also be realised, because Canada and the EU are constantly working on this. Moreover, I do not think that we, as national parliaments, will get another mixed treaty and we will eventually go back to the traditional trade agreements. In the eyes of the VVD, that's a missed opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Following on from my speech, I would like to address some of the issues that dominate the discussion. One. The supposed transfer of sovereignty and the alleged undemocratic way of creating it. Two. The economic importance, which would not only be negligible, but would also benefit only multinationals. Three. Food quality and animal welfare would be at risk and circular agriculture would be put at a disadvantage. The agreements made under the Paris climate agreement would be undermined. Four. Dispute resolution through the International Court System. Point one. The many e-mails that we have received in recent years, of which 95% have been produced through copy-pastes, emphasise that trade agreements are made through back-room politics. This has been the subject of extensive attention in questions to the government and experts. The conclusion can only be that these are merely fables. The mandates are parliamentary and determine the discretion of a minister. The European Council framework then instructs the Commission on what is possible and what is not possible. The College of Commissioners is also a political body responsible to the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament. This is carefully documented. Of course, the negotiations themselves are held in the comfortless chambers of the Berlaymont or the Justus Lipsius building. Of course, officials are involved, but that does not make it undemocratic. If I had operated without any trouble or back-spoke at the time, Frits Bolkestein and Gerrit Zalm had rightly shown me all the corners of the room and I wouldn't be standing here today. That's the way it is with us, Mrs. Karimi. This trade agreement would once again involve the transfer of sovereignty. That sovereignty was already transferred at the time of the Treaty of Rome in 1957. This was necessary in order to achieve a customs union and then a single market. Is that bad? Absolutely not. For if the EEC is set up for something, it is to promote economic growth and employment through the conclusion of trade agreements and the creation of a common market of about 500 million consumers. If you want to regain powers, you will have to change the EU Treaty. The VVD will never participate in such a treaty amendment. It is, of course, an illusion to think that a president in China or in the United States, whatever president he is, would be more willing to compromise for access to a consumer market of 17 million consumers than for access to a market of 500 million consumers. The British, with a market of 60 million consumers, have suffered the negative effects since they left the EU. This is not only happening in their negotiations with the US, which London still thinks is a special relationship, quod non. Finally, Mr President. On this specific point, the Treaty would be contrary to the Constitution or would derogate from it. The Court of Justice in Luxembourg has ruled that the Treaty is fully in line with the EU Treaty and the Council of State, in an opinion of 28 November 2018, found that the provisions are in conformity with the Dutch Constitution, because the investor, or other interested parties, have the choice to refer their dispute to the national court or to the international Court System. Then there is the second issue. The second part of my speech is the economic importance. That would be negligiblely small. Only multinationals that do not already pay taxes are favoured. This is in no way proportionate to the great good of our own sovereignty. I've just spoken about the latter. I have always had difficulty following this reasoning. If the economic importance is negligible, then no one is favoured, not even multinationals. If there is no economic interest, neither can there be an increase in imports and exports, i.e. the undermining of quality standards and animal welfare and the promotion of improper competition. In short, if ratification does not have an economic impact, then there can be no disaster and misery that some people, even so-called experts, think they should describe. It's two-and-a-half. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, in recent years, it has been shown that the treaty, which has been in force for five years, has indeed increased trade between Canada and the EU and that it does not mean that the Dutch economy will lose sight of it. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and the agricultural sector benefit. That is why LTO Netherlands and VNO-NCW are strongly in favour of ratification. It would be a pity to slaughter the chicken with the golden eggs, especially in these also difficult economic times for SMEs. It is clear that not only trade in goods and products, but also services, promoting the exchange of ideas and innovations, strengthening standards and values and sustainability agreements that are legally binding. The EU, and certainly the Netherlands, must have research, development and innovation. That is the only way we can stand up internationally. We cannot and do not want to influence our competitiveness by reducing environmental requirements and labour protection and laxity in the field of food safety and quality. It is not only my firm conviction that it does not help, but it is also too much of a Dutch honour for us to pursue this. It is precisely in this context that I expected the conclusion of a trade agreement with Canada to be relatively simple. It is a country with similar standards and values. It is a country that wants to focus on the EU in particular, given the tensions on the international market. Not only would it be stupid not to ratify it because of the Dutch interest, but I also think that we should not leave the Canadians in the cold, not only because of their commitment during the war, but also because Canada, together with the EU, is stronger in relation to China, the United States and the United Kingdom. That's what that country deserves. Then I come to subject number three. A great deal of attention has been paid to food quality during the expert meetings. Former Commissioner Hogan, responsible not only for Trade, but also for Agriculture during the Juncker Commission, has clearly indicated that everything imported from Canada must meet European quality standards. The control of this is stepped up and is also partly in Dutch hands. Only those companies whose products meet European standards will be granted an export licence. In short, there is no chlorine chicken on the Dutch market because of this treaty. The fear of unfair competition, which was discussed by the Old-Hand motion, which was recently rejected in the House of Representatives, therefore lacks any ground. I fear, however, that sentiments are more important than arguments. The Dutch agricultural sector is known for its innovative capacity and competitiveness, but also produces with the least environmental tax per product compared to other countries. All the reasons for continuing to stimulate the sector and to distance itself from stories that put the sector in the wrong light. It would be strange for such a small country as the Netherlands to be the second exporter in the agricultural field. Moreover, without prejudice to the importance of circular agriculture, this Treaty has no influence whatsoever on Nature, the most influential and authoritative scientific journal in the world, has advocated not to neglect the intensification of agriculture and not to opt for protectionism, but for innovation and further sustainability. Without intensive agriculture, three quarters of the world's population have insufficient food. We must continue to produce food where it can be most efficient, because transport only causes 10% of the environmental burden. Choosing the most efficient and least environmentally damaging method of production is good for biodiversity. The complaint that it places poor and cheap food in the market is subject to many comments. The quality of the food has never been as reliable as it is today. I can recommend everyone to read that article from Nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u161	I believe the microphone has been fixed by now. He seems to be doing it again, so there's less noise on the line. I will put my question to Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD without any noise. I have just heard a whole argument that food must be produced where it can be most efficient. Now the most efficient food producer in the world is the Netherlands, where your party, together with D66, is about to destroy the Dutch farmer with bizarre nitrogen measures. Now we are going to destroy our Dutch agriculture, thanks to the VVD, and import hormone meat and everything that comes through Canada through the back door. What are we doing, I ask Mr Van Ballekom. What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u162	This treaty does not import hormone meat. That's a myth. That's not gonna happen. As I have already said, everything must comply with European quality standards before being licensed to export to the Netherlands. Moreover, the VVD does not destroy the agricultural sector, but seeks to strike a proper balance for what the agricultural sector has to accept in order to resolve the nitrogen crisis. It is not a question of restoring the agricultural sector coûte que coûte. That is why I say that this is not just about food production, but also about innovation. I believe that innovation can achieve a great deal more than it does on its own, so that the crisis can at least be brought to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u163	Mr Otten again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u164	We are also very much in favour of innovation, including innovation from the Dutch system of how the country is governed, because that is urgently needed, but that aside. My question is: does Mr Van Ballekom know what ractamine is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u165	I didn't understand that, despite the fact that I have my ears in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u166	Ractopamine. Is Mr Van Ballekom familiar with the substance ractamine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u167	No, I'm not familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u168	Well, let me explain that to you. This is a growth hormone used in the meat industry in Canada, generating 3 dollars per kilo of extra yield. That is forbidden in virtually all the world, including China. In the Netherlands, this was abolished and banned 20 or 30 years ago. In Canada, that's just shit and shit. It is very difficult to verify precisely whether or not a ractamine has been added to the animal feed of what comes in here. It is added there in the cattle feed industry. So how can you say that all that is not a problem? That is indeed a problem for our food safety. We have the highest food safety standards in the world here. That is all very well, also in terms of animal welfare. Now Mr Van Ballekom will be eating a pork chop with ractopamine through the back door. Well, enjoy your meal, I'd say to Mr Van Ballekom, but we're skipping that VVD menu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u169	As I said, there are 36 companies that have been granted an export licence to export food to the European Union. In those 36 companies, food production meets all the quality criteria set by the European Union. I believe that this has ensured the food safety of Europe even after the ratification of this Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u170	I still have a question about hormone meat. It is true that it is not yet on the agenda that hormone meat may be exported by Canada, but that does not mean that this will not happen in the future, because of those working groups that are under the committees. They can just change certain rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u171	Such quality rules cannot be changed. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u172	I very much wonder if that's true, because it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u173	I think I'm talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u174	Yeah, I thought so. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that these committees can make changes. In particular, the Joint Committee may make such amendments, both in the Annexes and in the Protocols. Let me put the question differently, if you are so sure. Do you dare to claim here that Canada will never export hormone meat to the European Union on the basis of the CETA Convention in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u176	Yes, I dare say so. If there are changes to the quality directives of the European Union, it is on a proposal from the Commission after acceptance by the European Parliament and the Council. Then that can happen. I don't see that happening, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u177	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u178	Then I can conclude that you contradicted yourself, because the first time you said you didn't. Now you're saying it's possible under certain circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u179	No, Mrs Faber. You're suggesting a joint committee can do that. I deny that. Of course, even the Constitution can be amended. Even the treaty can be amended if there is a political majority in favour of it. However, it is not the case that a joint committee can change the quality requirements of the food imported into the European Union without burden and backspoke. That's not gonna happen, and that's what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u180	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u181	That's right, about that committee, but at least it can go another way. I have missed out on that, but at least it can be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u182	Sure, anything can be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u183	But then you also say that the treaty can be amended if there is political support for it. I understand that the treaty cannot be amended as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u184	To conclude this interruption, Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u185	I cannot imagine that there is one treaty in the world that cannot be changed if the political majorities are committed to it. That would be a novum in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u186	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u187	The Dutch agricultural sector is known for its innovative capacity and competitiveness. All the reasons for continuing to stimulate the sector and to distance itself from stories that put the sector in the wrong light. Oh, I already have, Mr. Chairman. Anyone can read that article, because it was in Nature. The fact that the Treaty undermines the Paris climate agreements was not only referred to the realm of fables at the expert meeting. The minister's predecessor also paid a great deal of attention to this in the debate that was held across the street at the time. The same applies to animal welfare through the strengthening of mutual contacts. In view of the willingness on the Canadian side, this is constantly being worked on. Failure to ratify would only hinder this process of influence. Moreover, on the initiative of Mr Koole and with the support of the government, the opportunities for business and civil society to raise non-compliance have been improved. In the past year, therefore, there has been sense and benefit in strengthening the role that our companies, trade unions and NGOs can play in implementing this Convention and other trade agreements. I am talking, among other things, about the time limit and transparency. This shows that the construction of trade and investment treaties is constantly improving. Mr. Chairman. A final issue is dispute resolution. CETA shall be without prejudice to the ability of the European Union and its Member States and Canada to adopt and implement its own laws and regulations regulating economic activities. The pursuit of legitimate public policy objectives such as the protection and promotion of public health, social services, safety and the environment, consumer protection, protection of privacy and cultural diversity are not hindered. Nor is the Treaty in breach of European law. This has not only been clearly established at an expert meeting, but has also been confirmed in the opinion of the Council of State and in a ruling of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg following a Walloon politically motivated hiccup. It is also clear that the ICS system is a clear improvement of the Investor-State Dispute Settlement. The latter was highly critical of the lack of independence, scope and procedures. ICS is a great improvement, for which Mrs Ploumen made herself strong with the support of the Chamber at the time. ICS is a permanent court, independent and public. Moreover, the scope is limited in the sense, as stated above, that a government cannot be called upon to adopt policies that serve the general interest. The State can only be sued in the case of direct or indirect expropriation, in the case of one specific company, where reasons of general interest do not apply. My comment would be that in such circumstances it is a good thing that the State can be sued. However, it will be of minor importance, because we are not dealing with Canada as a criminal state. The expectation that a diarrhea of claims will come from the Netherlands is therefore not based on anything. CETA protects investors in jurisdictions that are less robust than the Canadian and the Dutch, to express it diplomatically. In other words, such investment protection can indeed be significant in some EU Member States. Experience also shows this, because so far only two claims have been made against the Dutch State. Two is rather modest in the context of 95 bilateral investment treaties that have been agreed. Anyway, Mr. President, let it be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u188	It took a while. I would have interrupted the next part of Mr Van Ballekom's text, but I would like to come back to what he said about the right to regulate. He said that CETA does not restrict the right to regulate, the right of governments to introduce their own laws and regulations. There's a lot to say about that. Something has already been said this morning or the so-called'regulatory chill' effect, but I would like to make another point. How does Mr Van Ballekom view the so-called standstill clause and the ratchet clause in CETA? This is about the fact that, at the time CETA enters into force, the liberalisation that is already in force at that time actually applies forever. In fact, Mr Van Ballekom says that we can always change the treaty, but even if we cancel CETA, that investment protection still applies for a period of 20 years. So the standstill clause says: what is once liberalised remains liberalised. And the ratchet clause says: if you then continue to liberalise, that is not to be reversed. So if we as the Dutch Parliament were to decide that we really want to reverse it because we do not think that liberalisation is a good idea after all, it is not possible under the CETA Convention. I think that's a limitation of the right to regulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u189	I have nothing against liberalisation at all, so I do not understand why I should be against it being reversed. On the contrary. Investing means at least giving the investors sufficient time to bring their investments back, but that may not be in line with Mr Van Apeldoorn's economic theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u190	So this proves my point. This indicates that this is a VVD treaty, a neoliberal treaty. I'm also looking at the PvdA Group. Mr Van Ballekom now says quite clearly: I have nothing against liberalisation; the fact that CETA provides a lock-in of liberalisation that cannot be reversed is a good thing. You can find this from your liberal or neoliberal philosophy. That's where we part ways. Fine, but then I find that the right to regulate is actually restricted. I mentioned this morning the example that we, as the Netherlands, would restrict foreign property, in this case Canadian property, in certain sectors. If we were to raise that at some point, if we were to say that that share should also go up, then we would not be able to reverse it, regardless of the good reasons we would have as a parliament or as an EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u191	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u192	It's an observation. Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me that the right to regulate is indeed being restricted because we cannot reverse the liberalisations that have been made? So that makes it a neoliberal treaty. Does Mr Van Ballekom and I agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u193	As I said earlier in reply to Mrs Faber's questions: when there are good reasons and there is a political will to correct something, there is always room to correct something. I don't doubt that for a moment. But that does not mean that I would be in favour of reversing a trade agreement based on the market economy and free trade. On the contrary. Then we would only harm ourselves, not only the people in this house, but also the economy in the Netherlands. The VVD has never been in favour of that, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u194	Finally. Mr Van Ballekom says: if there are good reasons, we can always change things. CETA's investment provisions shall apply for a period of 20 years after the termination of the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u195	As I said, if you want to encourage investors to invest, you also need to provide sufficient investment security to earn back an investment. That's just normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u196	I heard Mr Van Ballekom say that this is a permanent court. That is true, but we are constantly talking about the legal protection that is now in place in the Netherlands under the Constitution. Something comes up; that's the court. But when we talk about the state of law and about real protection, one of the constitutional requirements is that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed, for example by appointment for life. Is Mr Van Ballekom aware that the judges in that permanent court are only appointed for five years and that this is contrary to what we normally make as constitutional requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u197	There is also much to be said about ICS and there is much to improve. It is certainly an improvement in the existing system where there is no question of independent judges, so it is a step forward. Or is that too hard for you to drive?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u198	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u199	The existing system is so that you can agree on arbitration together, but if that does not happen, the entrepreneur will still have to turn to the Dutch court in a situation where he wants compensation. So I don't see the difference. But the question I asked is not answered. It can be improved, you say, but my question is this. We must now say yes to a law, and we must now ratify something that shows that these are temporarily appointed people from a select group, who are also very well paid. Is that in line with what we normally say a judge should comply with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u200	I believe that the judges appointed for the Investment Court System have sufficient expertise to be appointed. That there's a time of five years doesn't bother me at all. It differs from what we think, but sometimes there are some disadvantages. In any case, I do not see that that would be the reason why this treaty should not be ratified. During the expert meeting... may I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u202	The expert meeting also made it clear that the current Canadian Government is fully behind this agreement, including the ICS section. It is important to bring this to the attention of some unexperts. The question arises as to whether there is a transfer of sovereignty in this area. My answer to that is a clear no, because without ICS the ISDS system would fall back, with fewer securities built in. An investor does not have the opportunity to initiate parallel proceedings. A choice has to be made. In procedures, they can potentially lead to a claim if the general rules of good administration are violated. Those who object must ask themselves why an investor should be denied access to justice under clearly inappropriate administration. I don't want to live in a society like this, and fortunately I don't live in it. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that it may be clear that I will advise my group to agree to the ratification of this treaty. If we and Canada, as like-minded nations with similar standards and values, are no longer able to conclude a treaty, then no other country will be able to do so, with all the economic consequences. In addition, abstaining is at odds with the previous transfer of powers in 1957, especially in the light of the European Parliament's approval. Anyone inside or outside this Chamber who thinks that with a non-market-driven economy, with protectionist economic policies and with bilateral trade agreements, we are doing a better service to our companies, entrepreneurs and consumers, I challenge to provide substantiated evidence. Last but not least: if a trading country such as the Netherlands blocks such a treaty after signing and a continued commitment in the past during the negotiations, it will not only have economic consequences, but will also rightly question our reliability as a partner. That's not gonna do our reputation any good. I wish the Minister every success in answering all the questions. That should not be so difficult, because most of them have already been put on several occasions. The VVD has no question to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u203	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u204	Did I hear correctly that Mr Van Ballekom just said: "If a company is expropriated or otherwise mistreated, it must be able to go to court to file a claim. I don't want to live in a country where I can't." Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u205	Yeah, you heard right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u206	I wouldn't want to live in a country like that. We don't live in a country like this. If a company is now expropriated, it can just go to the Dutch judge. We don't need the ICS for that. Mr Van Ballekom said earlier: what we now have with ICS is an improvement on what we had. But we don't have an investment treaty with Canada right now, so there's something we didn't have. What we have now is our national legal system, and that will do just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u207	That's right. That is why I have also said in my contribution that it may be less relevant for the Netherlands and that it may be more relevant for less robust legal systems, which we unfortunately also know in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u208	Finally. I am glad that Mr Van Ballekom says it is true. Then we can agree on that again. I have one other point that relates to this. It is often said that I often hear it in the debate and I find it polluting that the Netherlands has never had a claim. But the Netherlands has never before concluded such an investment treaty with a highly developed country like Canada. The Netherlands has concluded many bilateral investment treaties with developing countries. You know, Mr. Van Ballekom? Dutch multinationals have made extensive use of it to sue governments of developing countries. Now we have a situation in which we conclude such a treaty with such an exclusive court for multinationals with Canada. So that is a fundamentally different situation. Then you can expect Canadian or American multinationals through Canadian subsidiaries to have reasons to sue against the Dutch government. This is not comparable to all the bilateral agreements we now have with many less developed countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u209	So far, as far as I am aware, but the Minister could correct this, hardly any claims have been made against the Netherlands. I do not believe that the scare that is outlined, namely that there will be diarrhea in claims if we ratify this treaty, is based on anything. It goes without saying that claims can be made by companies doing business in less robust legal systems. I like that, too. There is always a choice, Mr. Van Apeldoorn, whether a company or an agency uses the Dutch system or the international system. That choice is up to the companies themselves. I think that the Dutch legal system is so robust that we will have little or no problem with it in the Netherlands. But again, if it happens on the basis of improper administration and unjust and unlawful expropriation of specific interests, then I am pleased that it is possible. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u210	I would like to leave it at that. Then Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u211	Mr Van Ballekom mentioned "He is not the first today "Several times the shared values of the EU or the Netherlands and Canada." I believe that Canada has signed far less ILO conventions than the EU. In my own contribution I mentioned the example of the maximum transport time of 8 hours for animals versus 36 hours in Canada. Do you think that what a society seeks in terms of working conditions and animal welfare are not of standards and values?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u212	I think Canada is a decent country that is constantly working on improvements in standards and values. I also think that if you do not ratify this treaty, you will not bring the objectives you are pursuing closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u213	Do I hear Mr Van Ballekom say that Canada is seeking to improve standards and values?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u214	Yeah, and also animal welfare. I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u215	Thank you for your speech, Mr. Van Ballekom. I would like to give the floor to Mr Koole of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From this place, too, congratulations to my colleague Mr Backer on his birthday. Mr. Chairman. While we are talking about a trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, there is a terrible war on this continent. Every day people are crushed by ruthless bombings by the Russian aggressor at civilian targets in Ukraine. There are numerous war crimes taking place. A country that wants to become a member of the European Union constantly reminds us that it is fighting for our democratic values. These democratic values are under pressure worldwide. The 2021 Democracy Index indicates that fewer and fewer people live in democracy on this earth and that authoritarian regimes are gaining ground. Russia has already been mentioned, but China was described last week by the British and American intelligence services as a longer-term "immense threat." In this unstable world, a strong Europe must be able to maintain the values set out in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Our own Constitution requires that the international legal order should be promoted. This international legal order is necessary in order to give these values an opportunity to develop elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. It is against this background of an unstable world that my group has weighed the present proposals, CETA and the Strategic Partnership Agreement, SPA. I am restricting myself to CETA today. To SPA, we are anyway. A trade treaty is about more than just trade. It is also about international relations. They've changed dramatically recently. Someone described it as: "Europe's geopolitical holiday is over. Trade with another democracy is not the same as trade with an authoritarian regime." Canada is a similar country, which, like us, strongly supports a rule-based international order. That is why my question to the government is whether it agrees with us that a trade agreement with a similar country like Canada is also of great geopolitical significance and, if so, which, in its view, constitutes that geopolitical significance for the Europe of CETA in practice. Does the government agree with us that cooperation with Canada contributes to a strong position of Europe in the world and thus to an international order based on rules rather than on the brutal force of violence and on the right of the strongest?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u217	I am really trying to follow Mr Koole's reasoning on the geopolitical aspect, but that is very difficult for me. Of course there is a war in Europe, a brutal war by Russia against Ukraine. Of course, European unity is important at the moment, but that European unity is being shown. The transatlantic unit is also shown. We are going to discuss the extension of NATO here tomorrow. You will see how my group views this. But it cannot be that, while there is all sorts of criticism of CETA, from the environmental organisations, from the trade unions, from all the elements that I have also appointed, the PvdA party in the Senate says: yes, but for geopolitical reasons we have to do it? If we reject CETA tomorrow, is Canada still an ally in NATO? I said the same thing this morning. If we do vote in favour of this strategic partnership, we will confirm our relationship with Canada once again with regard to the values that you and I both consider important, of multilateralism, of human rights, of the rule of law and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u218	I don't know exactly what the question was, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u219	It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u220	It can't be. Well, it could be. Of course, the war, but not only the war, has been an important reason to take into account our considerations about CETA, but it is the changing international relations that have been going on for a long time. I didn't mention China for nothing. We weigh that background strongly, but it is one of the considerations. I'm still at the beginning of my speech. There will be other considerations. I think that the consideration of the international geopolitical context must be considered very seriously. It is important for us in Europe to have a strong Europe. If you don't weigh that, then of course you can still try to maintain good contacts with Canada. But then our reputation will be damaged. And as I said, trade with Canada is more than just trade; it also refers to international relations. As a Europe with a treaty with Canada, you are economically stronger, but also stronger, as a large community of values that shares the values with Canada. You're gonna let that go when you say it doesn't have to be with CETA. No, to some extent you undermine that by not recognizing CETA, because it damages the relationship with a country like Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u221	Just one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u222	One short question, one more comment, if I may. My nugget breaks. If I understand Mr Koole correctly now, he says that it is one of the considerations, thanks to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, that we will soon be stuck with the support of the PvdA for decades to a neoliberal and fossil treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u223	I didn't say that, because I'm not talking about a neoliberal fossil treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u224	I am very curious about the continuation of Mr Koole's speech, but I would like to read one sentence here. Yesterday was written by Michiel Servaes, former Second MP of the PvdA: "Don't know what I find more painful: turning while nothing has changed treaty - or bringing in the war to justify it."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u225	That's an idea. I have said that the war is an expression of a very unstable world. That war is terrible. I have already said that, and hopefully everyone will agree, but there are other important geopolitical developments. I mentioned the rise of China. Against that background, you must also assess a trade agreement with Canada. It's something that weighs you; it's not decisive. What Mr Servaes says, I leave that on his behalf. We have made a careful assessment. This leads us to vote in favour of what has already been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u226	It's about standards and values now. That is for you, I say to Mr Koole, apparently the reason for concluding this suboptimal treaty. But in fact Mr Koole says: it is with a party with which we have the same values, so we will do a less good deal than we would otherwise. Of course, that's a little weird. I have another question. I agree with the interruption just now by Mrs Karimi, your intended merger partner. I understand you're also going to form a First Parliamentary Group together. Do you share the same standards and values with the GroenLinks group as PvdA? I wonder, because I'm starting to have some doubts about that. In this case, I have to admit that I am more on the line of GroenLinks than that of the PvdA. How is that going, I ask Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u227	That is not the subject of today's debate, but at least I shall say this. With GroenLinks we share many values and values. The goals are the same; on the road to getting there we make a different consideration. That does not stand in the way of cooperation with GroenLinks at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u228	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u229	It is now well known that our group will vote in favour of the trade agreement with Canada, just as 15 other countries have already voted in favour of it and the German coalition with the Greens and the SPD intends to do so. They reported this three weeks ago and confirmed it in the debate in the Bundestag last Thursday. We are doing this carefully and after careful consideration, not just because of the important international context. I just said that. In our view, the Treaty itself is also taking important steps towards a better and sustainable world, in which workers' rights are also respected. For example, the Paris climate targets apply in full to CETA, Canada also respects, through CETA, the International Labour Organisation's fundamental protocols on decent working conditions, national states can also continue to lay down rules within CETA to promote, for example, health and climate, which is the "right to regulate," and in our opinion, a much better dispute resolution instrument for investment, the ICS investment court. Does CETA create paradise on earth? Of course not. Much commitment and international cooperation in many areas remains necessary in order to achieve climate goals and make it possible for everyone to live up to their dignity, but CETA is a way forward. Mr. Chairman. There are many comments about ICS, that investment court, in the public debate, but in practice it does not yet exist, because it requires CETA to be approved by all national parliaments. There are rightly concerns about arbitration systems in old trade agreements, where the parties to the dispute themselves appoint the arbitrators, who are at the same time often lawyers for another multinational, where general principles of good governance are not systematically applied and where there is no professional possibility. Shark companies, and they are certainly there in Canada, can easily turn that arbitration into their own hands in that old situation, and that is undesirable. CETA's ICS is designed to address these concerns. Can the government tell us how she thinks that happened? Can the government also indicate which type of investors can benefit from the ICS? Is it only for large companies, often referred to as multinationals, or can SMEs also use them? Is the government prepared to support possible initiatives by the German Government at European level aimed at a binding interpretation of the investment protection standards aimed at limiting their improper use?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u230	Mr Van Apeldoorn for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u231	On investment protection, Mr Koole just said that it was a great improvement on what we had. I then wonder about what, because we now have no investment protection through a special exclusive court for large companies between Canada and the Netherlands. I would like to quote from the last PvdA election programme for the House of Representatives. It states that "public authorities, businesses, civil society organisations and trade unions must have equal access and thus equal protection in disputes over investment protection." My question is whether Mr Koole is still in favour of this and, in case the President no longer gives me the floor, I would like to ask my second question: is he of the opinion that this is also the case with CETA's ICS?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u232	The election programme talks about what should ideally be done. It's forward-looking. It was written after the vote on CETA in the House of Representatives. CETA is not mentioned in particular in our election programme. But I fully share what is in the electoral programme, namely that you must always take steps forward towards improvement in order to achieve the best possible access not only for business but also for civil society organisations. I shall come back to that in a moment when I refer to the complaints mechanism. But that is certainly the aim of our party, and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u233	Finally, Mr. Chairman, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u234	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u235	Mr Koole now says that that ideal has not been achieved with CETA but that we must take steps towards it. My simple question is: how will Mr Koole, the PvdA Group, ensure that we move with CETA towards the ideal, while it is clear that, if we vote on it tomorrow and ratify it, CETA will not regulate it in that way and thus not provide equal access? So, once the treaty is ratified, it will be so for the next few years, if not decades. Or is next year the PvdA Group going to commit to re-negotiation of CETA and the ICS?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u236	I shall return to that question in the course of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u237	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u238	Mr. Chairman. CETA, as a modern treaty, contains the so-called sustainability chapters, with binding agreements on climate protection and the improvement of working conditions. Can the Government explain how the process of its enforcement in CETA has been shaped? In any case, it is clear that I was just talking about the lack of an effective mechanism for trade unions, NGOs and other civil society organisations to address non-compliance. Our group therefore welcomes the fact that, at the request of our group, the European Commission has established a complaint mechanism with stricter procedures and binding deadlines. That was published less than three weeks ago. The good thing is that this complaint procedure applies to all EU trade treaties, including CETA. It strengthens the position of trade unions, human rights organisations and environmental organisations, and this has also taken a great deal into account in our considerations of voting in favour of CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u239	An interruption by Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u240	What changed the complaint procedure to CETA? What has changed in the treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u241	You can't change the text of the continuance; everyone knows that. Once a treaty has been adopted by governments, the parliaments can only say yes or no, just as we are used to in the First Chamber. What the complaints mechanism does do is that something fundamental has changed in the EU's trade policy. There is a much sharper complaints mechanism. This means that the complaint procedure on the European side applies not only to what has been brought in on CETA, but also to all EU trade agreements. I think that's quite a step forward. I'm actually proud of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u242	We're only talking about CETA today; we'll just park the rest. But in fact, it's just a pacifier. Because nothing has changed about the trade agreement. What has changed is the voting behavior I expect from the PvdA. That's the only thing that's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u243	No, there has been a complaint mechanism that applies both to CETA, right away, and to all EU trade agreements that are open. I think that's a lot. That's not a trifle; that's a big profit we've made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u244	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u245	The PVV Group thinks it's just a pacifier. But I'd like to go back to the climate, if you'll allow me. That's the same question I was about to ask. You're talking about sustainability, climate, CO and that sort of thing. Why don't you just start producing in your region?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u246	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u247	Then you better start producing in your region. 'Cause what's sustainable about picking up those bacon rags 6,000 kilometers away? That's not sustainable at all, is it? Why don't you just go to the Gelders Valley or in Brabant and raise those bacon rags?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u248	Let me not go into the case-law of the bacon rags. But what is sustainable about the CETA Convention is that it contains the sustainability chapters that state that you must abide by the Paris Convention and that you must abide by the fundamental protocols of the international work organisation. That means a lot. Hopefully, it will also be an example for future trade agreements that these sustainability chapters may be further strengthened. It's moving forward one step at a time. I think we should fight that fight together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u249	I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u250	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u251	No, it was already final.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u252	Yeah, but I had two different kinds of questions. I just sat there for a second. I haven't gotten to the interrupting microphone that often, so maybe a little coulance from your side?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u253	Well, let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u254	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman. What's said here by Mr. Koole is about paper. But in reality it is going to happen. Because our pig farmers are going to be bought out. I don't know how many tons of pork are going to be exported in five years' time. That's not exactly sustainable, is it? 'Cause they all have to cross the Atlantic with those bacon rags and those pork chops. You can't say with dry eyes that that's good for the climate, can you? I don't like the climate. I'm gonna let those bacon guys just be produced here. But your party does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u255	We certainly have a thing for sustainability and climate protection. That is why I am saying, I repeat, that we believe that those sustainability chapters with the legally binding provisions in them are very important. We're glad they're in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u256	I ask Mr Koole why he is so pleased with the complaints mechanism, with the hotline where trade unions and NGOs can report something, while those unions and NGOs are not happy about it at all and do not think it is an acceptable improvement at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u257	The trade unions are critical of the CETA report. They sent a letter on May 30 in which they were also critical. They wrote that the complaints mechanism is really making significant progress, but that a timeline with binding periods is missing. The letter states twice that this was an important reason for them to still have hesitations in the CETA Convention. Since May 30th, we have been pressing for that point of those timelines to include that period, which is deadlines. So I think we have met a very important objection from the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u258	One more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u259	Is Mr Koole now saying that today the trade unions and NGOs are in favour of voting in favour of CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u260	No, I'm not saying that. That's their own consideration. That's not up to me. I only note that having that complaint mechanism put in place by the European Commission has greatly strengthened the position of trade unions and NGOs. And where they had an objection a month ago, that objection has now been removed by including the timelines in the complaint mechanism. I think that's only good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u261	If I may, Mr President, I do not hear Mr Koole saying that the trade unions and NGOs are happy today when they were not before 30 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u262	In any case, they welcome the improvements made to the complaints mechanism. I'm sure they'll be glad to know that now those timelines are in there. For the rest, it is their balance that they make; we make ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u263	I propose that we conclude Mr Koole's speech. Then you can still come up with your interruptions. Please continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u264	Mr. Chairman. As I said, we had taken into account the objections to the complaint mechanism in our consideration of voting in favour of CETA. But here too, we can't sit back. Fortunately, the European Commission sees this as well. At the same time as the strengthened complaint procedure, the Commission published a communication containing the review of the sustainability chapters already announced in the EU trade treaties. Commissioner Hogan had informed our Chamber two years ago that he was going to do so. That communication was published three weeks ago, entitled The power of trade partnerships. This Communication sets out action points to further enhance the scope of the chapters, including through the introduction of trade sanctions in the event of non-compliance with binding agreements. The members of the PvdA Group welcome this communication. It is striking that on page 12 of that communication it is stated that the majority of the proposed action points relating to the sustainability chapters and to the strengthening of the role of civil society can be implemented immediately, including in trade agreements that are already in force. Can the Government indicate whether these action points can also be applied to CETA, as the sustainability chapters are subject to the provisional application of CETA? If this question is answered in the affirmative, can the Government undertake to urge the Commission to use these action points as soon as possible, including for CETA? Mr. Chairman. Opinions are divided on the CETA Convention, including in my own party. As part of this Chamber of Review, the PvdA Group in the First Chamber has carefully weighed this important treaty, as has been said. We have not gone ice over one night and have taken seriously the concerns that many have. Some will be disappointed by our position, others will be pleased, but I hope they are all convinced that our group has made an honest assessment. Mr President, may I add a personal note? As a Social Democrat, I have spent my entire life, including as party chairman and senator, working for the values of the democratic rule of law and for the values of social democracy, for solidarity in my own country, for solidarity across borders and for solidarity between generations. The history of social democracy shows that a better future, including for our children, can only be achieved by constant commitment and struggle, not at once, but usually in steps. Joop den Uyl said of himself that he belonged to the sinful race of reformists. That's the category I feel at home with. I also call myself "a reformist": step by step towards a better future for people, for the planet. That is why I advised my group to vote in favour of CETA. My colleagues in my group share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u265	Then there is an interruption by Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u266	I had another piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u267	Then I suggest you finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u268	Mr. Chairman. If the Netherlands says no to this treaty, this means a fall in the old trade agreements, without ILO labour protocols, without the Paris climate goals, without sustainability chapters and without the new complaint procedure for trade unions and civil society organisations. It would weaken Europe's position in a world of greatly increased instability, while Europe, as an economic global power, could raise standards worldwide, including in the field of the environment or decent work. With CETA, we believe that we are taking important steps in the right direction, but I have repeatedly said that the approval of CETA does not mean that we can sit on our hands. Together with other progressive forces in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world, we must continue the fight for multilateralism, for a rule-based international order, for a clean climate, for human dignity and for decent working conditions. Trade goes with that, provided it is fair trade, and I call on the government to support that development wherever possible. The members of my group look forward to the Government answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u269	Then there is the interruption of Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u270	Yes, for the record, so this doesn't stick: all environmental organisations and trade unions are still fierce against CETA, despite recent publications on the hotline. As far as the Paris Climate Treaty is concerned, Canada is in any case bound to do so; we do not need CETA for that. But I would like to come back to an earlier point I made. I confronted Mr Koole with a passage from his election programme stating that civil society organisations such as trade unions, environmental organisations and NGOs should have equal access to and equal treatment in an investment court or in an investment dispute settlement. That is not the case with CETA, with the ICS. And I think that passage was also about CETA, because then the PvdA's Lower House had already voted against CETA. Then Mr Koole said, and that surprised me sincerely: that is something for the future. Just now, in his fine closing words, he also talked about the future. But the future is now, isn't it? Surely the future is tomorrow if we have to vote on this treaty? And if we want to shape that future and make it a better future, in which, for example, part of the PvdA's electoral programme can be implemented, then surely your group can only vote against this obsolete treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u271	By the future, I meant that every election programme has been created for the next four years. It's always forward-looking. We very much share the objectives of that electoral programme, but I disagree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that this treaty, CETA, could not make an important contribution to this. That is precisely why we say in our consideration: we are in favour of CETA, for that better future, for a sustainable future for our children, for our offspring and for the planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u272	First of all, I would like to say that I find it rather painful that I am standing here asking Mr Koole critical questions, because we are indeed very happy and very happy to cooperate with the PvdA, at all levels, and hope to continue to do so. Of course, we are two parties, so we may at some point also make different considerations. So this doesn't affect our shared standards, values and ideals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u273	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u274	Listening to Mr Koole's final speech, I actually want to ask a question that has also been asked by the members of his party. Since they are not here, I take it upon myself to represent those Members in the context of cooperation. The question is very simple. It is written in the open letter, which has already been signed by hundreds of members. I quote. "The question to you is simple. If you as a PvdA senator in the First Chamber are in a position to stop an old-fashioned and polluting treaty and thus bring a just world closer, then you won't miss that chance?" That's also a reform. I'd say we have this moment, we have the chance, and we can stop this together, so why don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u275	We want to move towards a just world; I fully agree with the writers and also with Mrs Karimi. The difference lies in the appreciation of this treaty. We think this treaty is a step forward and we do not think it is an old-fashioned treaty at all. It is a modern treaty, with sustainability chapters, with the Paris climate treaty, with the ILO chapters, with an independent court and an independent right. They are several steps forward, combined with the international situation that is unstable and in which we want a strong position for Europe and combined with a new force mechanism in which the position of civil society organisations has been strengthened. All in all, this leads us to be in favour, precisely because it is a contribution to a better future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u276	What surprises me is that my last attempt to publicly convince colleagues from the PvdA group of this would be the following. All environmental organisations, trade unions and all the progressive forces in the Netherlands say: do not. And you say, no, we do. That just can't be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u277	That can be explained, because we have made a substantive assessment. The content is paramount. We really belong to all the concerns of civil society organisations, and we take them seriously. But that doesn't mean we have to take their position one-on-one. We must, of course, also explain our position today. That's what we're trying to do, and we will continue to do. But that doesn't mean that just the fact that others are against it doesn't prevent you from thinking about the substance of the treaty. We have made that substantive assessment. Others, too; they make a different assessment. We have chosen them, in all honesty, and come to the conclusion that CETA, as has been said, is a step forward towards that better, sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u278	Mr Nicolaï for one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u279	I have heard a fine speech from Mr Koole, but I do not really see what the Labour Party thinks about this independent court, which I have already said: how independent is it if you are appointed for five years? In this connection, many lawyers have raised concerns with regard to the construction, I shall say, of the unconstitutional nature of the construction that is now under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u280	I can also call so many lawyers, or perhaps even more lawyers, who say that it is very good and that it is not unconstitutional. I take the opinion of the Council of State, which has been mentioned here before, very seriously. The Council of State notes that it is not unconstitutional. So I also think you can do this. That court is an independent court, with impartial, independent judges. They have not been appointed by the warring parties, as is customary so far. They are independent and have been appointed from a pool of judges by the Contracting Parties, the EU and Canada. Those parties themselves then no longer have any influence on the question of which court deals with which case. This is done by the judges themselves, i.e. independently. It works very transparent, well transparent, with an opportunity to appeal. It's about a court that's so much better than the practice so far that you'd be crazy if you didn't want to take that step. That's what I mean when I say I'm a reformist: small steps forward. The better is an enemy of good. That has been said before today. It's gonna be here, too. I'd really like to invite the Party for the Animals to appreciate it. Count your blessings, I say with a biblical pronunciation! Take what you can take in battle for a better future and don't leave it, so you fall back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u281	The very last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u282	It sounds so beautiful: a pool of judges. But doesn't the Labour Party see what kind of people they are? Those people are financial bobos. Those are not the people who have the interests of the members of the Labour Party in front of them. Those are people who get $3,000 a day when they're there, next to the salary they already have. These are people who cannot be compared with judges in the Netherlands. The judges in the Netherlands are good, but they are actually excluded. You put conflict resolution in the hands of the wrong people, seen from the members of your party. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u283	Mr Koole to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u284	I really do distance myself from this, because you already know which people are coming in, and you assume that they are evil people in advance. Those are your words. I don't think so. They're lawyers. They are selected for their professionalism, wide legal. They are not only business lawyers, but also administrative law experts and others. It's done a lot. They're talking to each other. According to the standards of the metier, they will have to judge independently and impartially. You cannot now call on the party members of the Labour Party to call these people bad people, even though they have not even been appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u285	Thank you. Thank you for your first-term input. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u286	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands, as a genuine trading country, has against the one hundred bilateral trade agreements with associated investment agreements, I read in the documents. That's a respectable number. We don't know most of them. But since Arjen Lubach's 2016 television programme focused on CETA, everyone knows that, at least the name. And that's not without reason. CETA is an ambitious, comprehensive treaty, with a renewed investment agreement, with the ICS. It is clear from the two expert meetings held and the more than 270 pages of questions and answers to prepare for this debate that the First Chamber has been careful in its preparation. The fame of CETA to the Dutch citizen is also evident from the large stream of e-mails on this subject that we as First Members of Parliament receive. My group is in favour of this. The great interest in this subject keeps us informed. CETA has been in force for the most part for some five years since September 2017. At the expert meetings held in 2019, Commissioner Hogan, among others, expressed a very positive opinion on the economic impact of CETA on both the Canadian and European economies. And that brings me directly to my first question to the Minister. Does the Minister have up-to-date information on the impact of CETA on our Dutch economy? How does it assess the value of CETA for our economy so far? Can the Minister comment on the information that my group received from evofenedex and VNO-NCW, among others, which benefits Dutch SMEs in particular from this trade agreement, much more than the multinationals? At present, the Netherlands is the second exporter of agricultural products in the world. Until now, CETA seems to have changed nothing. Our agriculture is now under pressure because of the problem of nitrogen. There will have to be a different method of production, for example through circular farming. Could this mean that our farmers will suffer more from competition from Canada, because there are no restrictions on agriculture because of nitrogen? Can the Minister give a more detailed answer to this question? Mr. Chairman. At the start of the Treaty, some people were concerned that the European market would be affected by inferior products, products that do not meet the high European standard, for example because they would not be adequately controlled. Can the Minister, looking back on the past five years, reflect on whether these concerns were justified afterwards? The most frequently discussed issue, and also the reason why CETA should be ratified by all EU Member States, is the ICS, a new investment court that should replace the previous criticized ISDS. Criticism of the ICS is also possible; of the possibility of appealing, or of finding properly qualified judges. But perhaps the main criticism is that the ICS gives an international arbitration committee the right to make far-reaching financial statements that bind our government. That criticism has been made loud and clear. The question of whether such an investment agreement is necessary in a trade agreement between the EU and Canada is also widely heard. Are our national legal systems not robust enough to assess any claims made by investors? My group understands these questions and criticisms. We are rightly proud of our own Dutch and European case law. And the independence and reliability of the Canadian judges need not be doubted either. At first sight, therefore, it would be preferable for my group to leave the resolution of any disputes to national courts, not to an international arbitration court. At the same time, however, my group cannot escape the impression that, in itself, there are no unjustified objections to CETA in the public image that it seems to have lost its nuance. Moreover, the benefits of a widely-supported trade agreement between the EU and Canada have sometimes been overlooked. My group is therefore looking for a realistic approach. For example, international arbitration has a useful role and added value from a geopolitical point of view. A sound international investment protection mechanism is important for reliable and regulated trade relations. Far from everywhere, the rule of law is as robust and independent as it is with us. We do not even need to look outside the EU's borders to see that it can be otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u287	Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I cannot follow Mrs Huizinga very well anymore. She's talking about the arbitration court. Now I've looked into the election program of the Christian Union. It says on page 133: "No special arbitration for multinationals. Multinationals should not be given exclusive legal rights vis-à-vis citizens and SMEs. So no separate legal arbitration for multinationals." But then Mrs Huizinga and the Christian Union will go against her own election programme. That's some kind of electoral deception, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u288	Well, I guess that's not so bad. This passage from the electoral programme will undoubtedly be there. Nevertheless, my group has given it a lot of thought, and this is our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u289	Then I can conclude that the election programme in the Christian Union has no value whatsoever...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u290	That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u291	Just a minute. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u292	I keep getting them to go through it when I say something. Apparently it's sensitive then. However, I can conclude from that that you have an election programme which has no real value whatsoever. So the voter who voted for the Christian Union... You're actually taking a carte blanche. In fact, you are taking on the mandate of your electorate, and you are actually doing that wrong. I think that's a big deal. Can you imagine me opening a mosque? You can't do that, can you? Yeah, I mean... You're getting out of here so easily about that arbitration court. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u293	Theoretical example. Mrs Huizinga to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u294	I would like to know when Mrs Faber intends to open a mosque. And I'd be curious to know where, but that's all that's left. An election programme is, of course, a starting point. It's a thought of the party; a thought of "we're going that way." An election programme is not a standstill, "we once wrote this down, and now we can't think for four years, because we just have to look at what we've ever written down." When thinking about the ICS, change has indeed been made in the Christian Union. You also know that the House of Representatives was initially opposed. On second thought, he has voted in favour. And that's how it went with our First Parliamentary Group. So despite the fact that you wrote something down in an election program at a time in time, you don't say to yourself: and now we stop thinking, and we don't let ourselves be told about situations that we might have no idea of when we were writing that program.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u295	Very briefly. We're running very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u296	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. That has nothing to do with stopping thinking. That has to do with principles. And that's why I'm never going to open a mosque.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u297	But our principle is that we don't stop thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u298	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to understand this. Says Mrs Huizinga of the Christian Union now: we wrote that down in the election programme... By the way, it wasn't that long ago. And I think that was also after the Christian Union had voted in favour of CETA. The Christian Union has deliberately written that down. Normally, an election programme is valid for four years. Does Mrs Huizinga now say: 'I still support that, but everything is taking into account, because in our view CETA also has advantages, we are voting in favour'? Or does Mrs Huizinga say, and I now taste it: 'We are abandoning our own electoral programme, because our thinking has not stopped, has evolved, and we are now thinking a lot more positively about a special arbitration for the multinationals' - which the Christian Union was opposed to in the election programme two years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u299	My group has begun to think that this would be a strange idea. And then, by thinking and thinking, we came to the view that we can vote in favour of the ICS in this case. You already understand that. And I could make even more comments that support that and make it clear why my group is in that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u300	I should now like to give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom. We need to speed up. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u301	Does Mrs Huizinga agree with me that it is an arbitration court not only for multinationals but also for bakers around the corner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u302	Sure. Sure, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u303	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u304	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u305	Nevertheless, there is still an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u306	Yeah, about the baker on the corner. You don't think the baker on the corner is gonna go to the arbitration court and pump a few million bucks in there, do you? Or a hairdresser? He'll have to cut a lot of heads for a few million. That's totally unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u307	I understand there's hardly any more bakers on the corner. Again, we're running very late. I would like to ask Mrs Huizinga to finish her speech. Then you can post a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u308	We do not even need to look outside the EU's borders to see that it can be otherwise. In such cases, an international arbitration court may indeed be preferable to national case law. It also provides Canada and its investors with certainty and clarity. It is only logical and right that they attach to it. National arbitration is a reality; see ISDS. That reality shows the room for improvement. My group notes that the introduction of the ICS brings important improvements. By introducing the ICS to CETA, Europe could set the tone for healthier, more balanced trade agreements. I would like to mention a few points. The process is more transparent. The Judges shall be independent. The hearings shall be public. NGOs and other civil society organisations can join such a process. There's a lot more to name. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I would like to ask the following question. Have I understood correctly from the documents that the ICS can grant a claim but has no influence on the rules and laws that a national government enacts, unlike the national court, which, in exceptional cases, may decide to terminate a rule? A widely heard objection is the so-called chilling effect: governments or parliaments that, for fear of billions of claims, already take too much account of the interests of multinationals with deep pockets when drafting legislation. We talked about that earlier this morning. That would indeed be a bad thing. But scientific research at the London School of Economics and Political Science leads to the conclusion that such an effect does not occur or to a very limited extent in practice. As a rule, governments are happy to choose the public interest, despite a threat of claims. In addition, in earlier investigations on arbitration cases, the government concerned was found to be equal in 60% of the cases. In other cases, a friendly settlement was generally reached. So we really do not have so much to fear. The right to regulate is laid down in the Treaty. It leaves the government the room to adopt laws that, while damaging investors, serve the public interest. In such a case, there can be no claim granted. The examples given in the interpretative document to that right are not exhaustive. This means, for example, that climate policy laws, although not mentioned in the list, are also included. That's what the Council of State says in its opinion. In this context, my group wonders where the final consideration lies whether a law serves the public interest. I would ask the Minister to comment on that. In a realistic assessment of this treaty, my group also wants to recognise that the Dutch economy, and therefore all the Dutch, not only entrepreneurs, have an interest in removing trade barriers. In addition, a treaty with Canada is a treaty with a similar country in terms of European values. This is very important in the changing geopolitical world. The European Union needs equal partners. Mr. Chairman. My group confines itself to the rules of this Convention when assessing CETA. However, we have noted with great satisfaction the efforts of the Dutch Government and the European Commission, among others, to put in place a complaint mechanism, the Single Entry Point. Although this mechanism is not part of CETA, it changes the position of NGOs and civil society organisations to the benefit of all trade agreements. This notification mechanism will give them more opportunities to address, for example, sustainability and human rights abuses in relation to the implementation of conventions. Although the SEP mechanism does not specifically focus on CETA, it will also strengthen the position of these groups under this Convention. My group also agrees with what Mr Koole has said on this subject. Mr. Chairman. This was my contribution and I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u309	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u310	Mr. Chairman. Between the conclusion of the CETA negotiations in 2017 and today, the world order and the balance of power have changed considerably. More than ever, forces are joined. Coalitions are sought with equals and natural partners to address international challenges. Canada is clearly such a like-minded partner. Member of the G7 and the G20 and also an important partner in NATO. The EU and Canada stand side by side in a war raging on our European continent. Canada, with us, has an international tradition, a tradition of values, the pursuit of an international legal order in proven and open democracy, security and diversity. At the hearing, held in our home in June 2020, the Canadian ambassador also refers to CETA as a cornerstone for the strong and historical ties we have as the Netherlands with Canada. We must not forget. We also support, as Canada does, the great importance of a global multilateral trading system and we are committed to maintaining it. I say this so explicitly because the agreement was negotiated and also came about during the period when President Trump indicated that he would not see anything, even more so, to take an American initiative to cut off all multilateral links. That's what we were worried about. It is precisely because of the very difficult attitude in the multilateral system of the US and China, both protagonists, that the strengthening of ties with second-tier countries such as Japan, Korea, the UK and certainly Canada is so important. In today's world where there are many certainties under pressure, a truly fundamental reflection on the structure and openness of world trade is needed. This is necessary for the EU, but also for our country. Our country, which is so dependent on consultation for prosperity but certainly also for achieving the sustainability objectives, depends on perseverance and international agreements. Furthermore, we must recognise that qualitative prosperity can only be achieved if we have regulated world trade in these areas. When we talk today about CETA, a strategic partnership agreement between the EU and its Member States and Canada, in order to provide a framework for political dialogue and the development and relaxation of trade and investment, we know that this proposal could also count on a majority in the House of Representatives, which, as I have heard, will also be the case in this House. The adoption of the broad economic and trade agreement between Canada and the EU has raised more questions. I have read the report of the hearing again and I see that groups have asked questions to varying degrees. Mrs Faber of the PVV was also critical of ICS at the time. Mr Otten also said something about ICS back then. Mr Beuker, on behalf of the Democracy Forum at the time, said that he wanted to have a guarantee that American products that do not meet our European standards would not come into the EU via a back door. Those questions have been answered very comprehensively and convincingly. This has given us many insights, which we must address today in our deliberations. I shall now turn to the individual issues. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group feels responsible for the way in which we give the EU interest and therefore the Dutch interest position as an important player in the geopolitical field. We must not burden the unity in Europe and the unity and cooperation in the geopolitical sense with links with which we are now more than ever connected, I repeat, with a discussion which ultimately only affects opponents of our common values. In other words, Mr Koole has said the same thing. In addition to geopolitical notions, there are, of course, just the economic benefits that this treaty has as its perspective. Dutch exports to Canada have increased by 29%. That is twice the EU average. The trade surplus with Canada increased from 2.5 billion to 3.2 billion in that period. Moreover, nine out of ten exporters are not multinationals but SMEs. Trade accounts for 28,000 jobs. Is it true, as I ask the Minister, that agriculture accounts for only 4% of the volume and the rest, that is 96%? This means that the non-agricultural sector, which is not mentioned very much in the social debate, has thus received many additional opportunities. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have tried with colleagues to get an answer to all the questions and uncertainties that were certain. It was not easy to row against the many insinuations. Those insinuations weren't based on real information. We also had to deal with legitimate concerns about shortcomings. Now that I have had it worked on again, I note in this debate that the two years of discussion, thanks to the government, has been used to the full to get the European Commission, first Commissioner Hogan and then Commissioner Dombrovskis, off the seats and to make a number of commitments to us. The intentions published by the Commission in the letter of 13 June represent a substantial strengthening of sustainability in EU trade policy. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. We have received a lot of emails, for example from Foodwatch. They say they picked up 26,000 signatures. I tried to answer some of those e-mails once, but they're just fake addresses. I don't know what to think about that. I, as a parliamentarians, am trying to answer concerns about citizens, but I can't get away with talking about transparency. Mr. Chairman. The European Parliament approved CETA by a large majority in February 2017. I report this because the negotiator, on behalf of the Dutch Government, has continuously and positively involved our House of Representatives in the whole process. I think there were 39 committee meetings. Seventy-seven times it has been discussed in plenary. At present, the parliaments of 15 Member States have approved the Convention. The German Red-Green Liberal Government is also in the process of ratifying it. They also had a first consultation on this matter last week. Mr. Chairman. From what I have heard from Germany, I understood that there is a positive basic position, so you call it neatly 'on a binding interpretation of investment protection', so that it cannot lead to abuse. They also want a stronger role for the European Parliament in cooperation with Canada. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. They also want unanimity from the Council in certain decisions of the CETA Joint Committee. In the consultations held there in Germany, it was said that the Treaty would not be amended to that effect. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. What do we decide? Where is the competence of the Dutch Parliament? When I look at CETA and the debates on it, I see roughly three types of criticism. The first is: why does the EU have the right to conclude trade agreements at all? The second is dispute resolution. The third, general criticism is: does CETA not affect the high EU standards on the environment, animal welfare and the precautionary principle? I shall come back to that, because I will check the points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u311	Mrs. Karimi would like to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u312	I have a question about the previous point. In my view, Mr Oomen has it right when it comes to the three points raised by the German Government. This could lead to the negotiation of the CETA Convention. Does the CDA group now intend to ask the government to support that attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u313	No. In the articles on the negotiations and the talks that have taken place between not only the Great Coalition but also CDU/CSU, I read that they do not want any amendment to the Treaty at all. I read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u314	I do not want to repeat the German debate, of course, but there are now three conditions, as you yourself have said. I do not know whether these three points lead to a treaty amendment or not, but then the question is... you asked a question about that. You look so inquisitive. You just asked a question about that. I do not know that this would lead to the breaking of the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u315	No, I said what I said, but maybe I expressed myself wrong. It is that there was a positive attitude in Germany precisely because of those three points. So I probably got it wrong, but at least that's what I had on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u316	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u317	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Let us first look at the power of ratification. It is explained in the position paper of Professor Kuiper that was introduced during the hearing. It sets out exactly what the rules of the game are now CETA as a so-called mixed treaty offered by the European Commission. As a result, 95% of CETA belongs to the exclusive competence of the EU and the European Parliament. In a formal sense, the national parliaments, as well as us, only judge dispute resolution. My second point concerns the Investment Court System. This is a thoroughly modernised form of investor-state dispute resolution and is incomparable with the former ISDS. I would like to mention some fundamental changes. ICS does not concern private arbitration, but it is a permanent court with a first instance tribunal and an appeal tribunal. There are well-established investment protection provisions. Judges have been appointed by Contracting Parties for a fixed term. There are transparent procedures in the process. Letterbox companies are excluded from investment protection. The policy freedom of countries cannot be restricted. A completely new balance has therefore been struck between the public interests of a country and the interests of investors. Mr President, I would like to make my third point. The CDA Group also naturally feels the need to address social and environmental concerns. That's what we want to convince, not only in this house, but also out there. The complaint mechanism in CETA's sustainability chapters has been extensively discussed in our Senate. Under pressure from questions from the ESC and the trade union movement, but certainly also from the pressure in our home, that mechanism has been considerably improved by the Commission. I sincerely thank the Minister, who, with her Brussels knowledge and intense lobby in Brussels, has achieved a great deal. I would also like to thank Mr Ruud Koole for the frappez toujours, where some of the questions have been converted into real action. Let me refer to the dispute resolution. Then I call the operating guidelines of the Single Entry Point. They have been tightened up and - as has rightly been said - they have timelines. These improvements are already operational for CETA. In doing so, the Commission must deal with complaints quickly and thoroughly. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission's new Trade and Sustainable Development Review, which we received in mid-June, will ensure that the sustainability chapters in future trade agreements really get teeth. The position of civil society is also further strengthened. This concerns the sustainability dimension of EU trade policy. The Sustainability Complaints Mechanism is linked to the Operating Guidelines of the Complaints Mechanism, which also apply to CETA. It also provides an input for businesses, trade unions and NGOs to identify all concerns about compliance with agreements in trade agreements with the European Commission. This should lead to better and faster monitoring and enforcement of the agreements. The complaints mechanism is functioning. As the implementation report shows, it is findable and visible. So it can also be easily addressed. Mr. Chairman. I understand that the trade union movement has objections, because the new TSD has not yet been included in CETA. That's right, but we don't have to think statically, we have to think dynamically. After all, the world is not standing still. Canada has indicated its intention to include the new TSD agreements after ratification in CETA. The Commission has indicated that it will adopt the new approach after ratification by means of the so-called review clause. Will the Minister see to it, and promise this Chamber, that this promise will be fulfilled? Mr. Chairman. I have responded in general with three points of criticism, including those of the outside world. I have come up with good answers to these criticisms. The solutions are partly valid for this CETA Convention and to some extent they have yet to be implemented after ratification. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it is important to note that after the approval of the European Parliament CETA has been operating provisionally for five years now. During this period, as far as we know, there have been no social or environmental conflicts. At the meetings of the Domestic Advisory Group, the watchdog of and for civil society organisations, in which European and Canadian civil society sits, with dozens of representatives who also have to monitor sustainability aspects, no specific issue has been raised so far, on the contrary. In the meantime, Canada has ratified a number of ILO conventions. Perhaps the Minister would like to go into that further. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is in favour of this treaty. CETA is geopolitically important. It has brought proven economic advantage and provides a new benchmark and leverage to anchor sustainability in European trade policy. Of the many concerns raised by the critics, not one concern has materialized now, after five years. We have a perspective with this treaty. I am referring to a perspective on a better sustainability dimension, which, by the way, goes far beyond the EU and which is therefore de facto more effective. Mr. Chairman. Should this house decide not to ratify CETA, there will be far-reaching consequences. We need to realize that. This will put an end to the provisional effect, which will put an end to trade liberalisation. This is not only very painful for our country, but for the whole EU. Moreover, there is nothing to reverse any specific disadvantages that we have not seen, as I have said before. Mr. Chairman. If today or tomorrow we have to make a choice between concrete and broad and between a substantial advantage and a hypothetical disadvantage, which, incidentally, has not occurred in recent years, then it seems to me, and to my fellow Members, that the choice is clear as to what they should advise their political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u318	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. There's another interruption by Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u319	I thought there were no interruptions at all; that is pathetic. That was the case with me, too, so I know how that feels. Mrs Oomen and others have stressed that the arbitrators are independent. You can say anything about that. My question concerns the following. The advocates want to give these arbitrators the opportunity to arbitration, because in some countries public justice may not be as up to standard or reliable. Are these arbitrators allowed to come from those countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u320	These are designated by the EU and Canada. So I have nothing to say about that. As much as I have nothing to say about the appointment in the Netherlands as a Member of Parliament, neither will the European Commission. As far as I'm concerned, it could be. By the way, as far as interruptions are concerned, I always think "gosh, I've convinced people."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u321	That's exactly what I thought, so I've mixed feelings. At this point I am not convinced, because what I mean is: why would a private arbitrator from country X be more reliable and of a better quality than the government or than politics in that country X?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u322	No, look. The system will work in such a way that one has a pool of good people, men and women who can speak well. By way of comparison, in the previous system, lawyers were often appointed by the parties. It's not like that anymore. It's independent and transparent. Whoever is appointed... There will be excellent judges in Bulgaria, but if I have to put an investment dispute before Bulgaria, I may sometimes think about it before I do, while there can be very good people who can do it. I have a judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u323	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I fully agree with you that the quality of the input does not depend on the number of interruptions, but can, of course, improve as a result. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Beuker of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Sometimes it's hard to pick. Some values that may be in conflict with each other will not be translated into a common denominator. Do we, for example, opt for more freedom or more equality? The choice for one is at the expense of the other. There is no neutral way to choose between the two values. A similar situation is taking place today. Do we opt for more free trade and investment, or do we opt for national legal protection and sovereignty? That is one of the essential choices we are considering today regarding the adoption of the Comprehensive Economic Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union. The Comprehensive and Economic Trade Agreement, CETA, is the most comprehensive and ambitious trade agreement in the history of the European Union. My group welcomes the final treatment in the Upper Chamber. The position and attitude of the Netherlands towards this mixed treaty should be clear. In the run-up to this treaty after seven years of intensive consultation, resulting in 1,598 pages, a lot has been spoken and written. Hundreds of questions have already been put to Mrs Oomen and have also been answered neatly. This mixed trade agreement, with a section on trade but also a section on investment, mixed today and today in the Chamber, continues to create a great deal in society and rightly, my group believes. This morning we saw that again at a demonstration here at the entrance. This treaty between the European Union and Canada is not about our gratitude towards the Canadians. For our part, the debate is not about the desire to trade or invest in a level playing field. My group is very much in favour of this, as many in our country do. Trade is in our blood and suits us, in the past, in the present and probably, if it is JA21, also in the future. The strategic partnership with Canada is therefore not a problem for us. So what is the issue with this CETA Convention? In recent years, several treaties have been concluded by the EU. They have simply not been dealt with in the States-General and simply came to fruition. The recent trade agreement between the EU and Japan, certainly a large economy, is a good example of this. The reason for Parliament's debate lies in the fact that, for the first time, a special and newly designed dispute settlement, the so-called Investment Court System, the ICS, is linked to the aforementioned trade agreement. The investment part and the associated arbitration court, that's where the shoe is wringing. For my group, this new EU supranational dispute settlement is really unnecessary and undesirable. Investors, both domestic and foreign, have ample opportunities to defend their interests in our tried and tested system. Mr. Chairman. The trade agreement aims to provide a framework for political dialogue and the development of trade and investment between the EU and Canada. Fine! Standard clauses have been included for this purpose, for example on human rights, the fight against terrorism, but also on the spread of illegal small arms and judicial cooperation, all of which concern the European part and the Netherlands. Fine too! However, there is a considerable division over the establishment of that supranational arbitration court that works according to the ICS. That is a form of ISDS, the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, the investor-state dispute resolution, in which Canadian investors, both companies and shareholders........................................................................................................................................................................................ It is not clear to my group what the added value of this supranational arbitration court, the associated joint committee and the specialised committees that can give binding opinions in various areas. The Netherlands, like Canada, has a full legal system. Why our own legal system would not comply and why a parallel legal system for Canadian investors would be necessary has remained completely unclear and not supported by evidence for us. That is why my group considers it undesirable that a choice for companies should be built in by setting up ICS. In our view, the Dutch legal system is more than adequate to resolve the disputes between the parties, including in the framework of CETA. Why should we make our national law subordinate to the interests of investors? A Dutch judge ideally judges with in mind the general interest. A judge of the ICS only assesses the investor's interest. What, according to the Minister, is the improvement for the Netherlands? As a result, the regulatory chill effect is also a difficult word. This means that, under threat of damages claims, the legislator may decide not to take measures. The Minister and some in the Chamber deny this effect, and yet my group doubts it. We have doubts about this, because this was the very reason for Canada to withdraw ICS from the treaty with America. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Chrystia Freeland, said: by removing ISDS from our treaty, we have "strengthened the right to take public action in the public interest, to protect public health and the environment." Moreover, the CETA Convention entered into force provisionally in 2017, without the aforementioned investment protection. The trade results also seem to be favourable. That has been mentioned several times. Investment and trade between the European Union and Canada therefore flourish without the ICS. Apart from the ICS, my group still has some constitutional objections to the ratification process of CETA. Article 112 (1) of the Constitution provides that "the judicial authority is to have jurisdiction over disputes concerning civil rights and claims'. Damage claims against the State for investment protection are civil claims that can also be called claims. Damage claims against the State must therefore be settled through our national legal system. Article 81 of the Constitution provides that "the adoption of laws shall be carried out jointly by the Government and the States-General." CETA amends Article 112 of the Constitution by transferring judicial powers to the CETA Arbitration Court on Investment. Pursuant to Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, "in the event that a treaty amends articles of the Constitution, a two-thirds majority in both chambers is required for ratification'. Finally, Mr President. Article 30.9 (2) of the CETA Convention clearly states that the provisions of Chapter 8....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the so-called sunset clause. How desirable does the Minister consider this to be? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answers. I'm at the end of my first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u325	There is another interruption by Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u326	I listened with attention. Part of the matter came at 10.30 a.m., 1.30 p.m. and 3 p.m. That is a bit the result of so many participants in the debate. That's the pluralism of the Chamber. That's good. It's just, the hard part is that I think it's a waste of time to go over that whole discussion again. That is why I would like to put a different question to Mr Beuker. Could he allow the idea that the analysis of the Constitution by his lawyers might not be entirely correct after all, and that the Council of State is on the right track, as well as all those states in Europe that would like to sign this treaty? Could he allow that thought? And, if so, would it still be so serious that for that reason the entire treaty should be removed from the table for the JA21 group? Is it so serious that the whole treaty you say: I don't need it, but it's in it with all the advantages and perhaps some disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u327	I am very pleased with Mr Backer's question, because this gives me the opportunity to go into that further. I also said in my story that JA21 is for that business. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the trade aspect of the treaty could simply continue. If we split it up, just like we did with the Singapore Convention, and we remove the ICS, then we could get the trade agreement between Canada and the European Union moving forward as far as the JA21 group is concerned. But we have clearly heard that the government believes that there is no division. It's irrevocably linked. We have an absolute problem with the transfer of sovereignty from the Netherlands to the European Union, to that court. What is happening is that a new possibility is being created by this arbitration court. The Joint Committee, which is a group of officials above the EU, which is not subject to parliamentary control, may examine all kinds of issues and has powers to make changes, even in quotas. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is. But I believe that this is true and that special committees can even be set up for it. Then you're giving something out of your hands that would really be a no-go for JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u328	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u329	Finally. But sometimes things change in politics. It's not split. It's been presented in combination here. That is what we are being asked to judge, and that is precisely the part of the dispute. "I'd rather see it different" is not the issue right now. I would therefore like to ask one more question. Maybe you can make that assessment. But if we get the same answer, we'll be back at 11:00. So maybe we should just leave it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u330	Unfortunately, I am going to disappoint Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u331	Mr. Beuker says: as far as JA21 is concerned, the trade could continue; the pain is with the ICS. But we must not forget that the trade aspect is very detrimental to our farmers. I guess JA21 doesn't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u332	I am very grateful to Mrs Faber for this question. That depends on whether you take all kinds of things that are also in this treaty. We agree with the conclusion of a trade agreement with Canada. But if you add that officials without parliamentary control, without any influence from politicians, can change quotas, for example, then we will not approve such a trade agreement. Then, in the case of CETA, I am talking about the Joint Committee and the specialised committees. They're gonna have to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u333	In conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u334	I am not talking so much about the committees, but rather about our farmers. That means that, for example, animal welfare in Canada is at a much lower level. That is all on a voluntary basis, when we are subject to all kinds of strict rules here. The same applies to all kinds of environmental regulations. So our farmers are just lagging behind. They can compete much harder. They get a very heavy competitor from Canada's exports. The way it is now, it is to the detriment of our farmers. That sounds like a point to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u335	Mrs Faber absolutely has a point. That's definitely a point. That's why I kept saying: you're gonna have to talk about a level playing field. Asking a boxer to get in the ring, turning his arm on his back and saying "well, we're gonna box," isn't fair. You have to create a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u336	I always feel very at home at a level playing field. Today, as such, is a level playing field, I think, because it has been agreed by two independent parties. That's one. When we talk so much about agriculture and agriculture, it only accounts for 4% of this treaty, does that mean that the major benefits lie particularly in the non-agricultural sector? Would you mind taking that up for a second? The third point. You say: we have such good justice in the Netherlands. Of course we do! But an investor can not only press charges against the Netherlands, but also against other countries. If you say that we have such good agreements and such good case law in the Netherlands, could it be that the Canadian investor goes to Dutch case law and does not take ICS and that the Dutch court then decides that compensation should be given at some point? Could that be possible? Can you answer those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u337	Mr. Beuker, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u338	A level playing field, that's where we find each other; that's where we are. A trade agreement must certainly pursue this, but the situations are, of course, different everywhere. You can also see this in the agricultural sector in the Netherlands: we are talking about the agricultural sector as if it were a whole, but that is not right. Within agriculture there are differences. For example, our cheese farmers have a very different perception of this treaty than agriculture. So you can't say there's a "win" for everyone, because that's not true. So you're really gonna have to differentiate in that. That's what the market does. Our farmers have an advantage by producing well and sustainably and indeed have all kinds of rules. We will not advocate any more rules for farmers, which would lead to a deterioration in the competitiveness of Canadian farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u339	I was intrigued by Mr Beuker's remark that a treaty should at least not have a joint committee, for example. I heard you say that. Is that right? Otherwise, I misunderstood, but I was just wondering how. There is simply a common governance of the contracting parties: the EU and in this case Canada. That is a partnership with a common administration. That is what you call "a joined committee" and that is what committees are under which to resolve the misunderstandings in the treaty together. If this would lead to a derogation from the Treaty, it would always have to be submitted to the Council and the European Parliament through the European Commission. Surely no treaty can be without something like a day-to-day administration, as I call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u340	That's perfectly clear. However, if you give a joint committee so many powers that it can designate independent committees that will carry out investigations and then make binding agreements for everyone, we say: no, you go too far, because then you transfer too many powers. That is also what we have seen here in the Netherlands. You have to be careful not to take advantage of that. Opinions must be opinions, but if they are binding on everyone, you give the officials of such a committee or of such a committee too many powers. So that's not what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u341	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u342	The bindingness of these agreements will never be determined at official level. This will always be done in the joint committee, in which the Commission and the Government of Canada are represented. They again have the responsibility to explain it to the Council of Ministers. So I don't think you can say it's with civil servants. It lies with the politicians themselves and they simply have their own responsibility process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u343	I would like to thank Mr Beuker and to give the floor to Mr Otten of the Otten Group for the conclusion of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u344	Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Van Ballekom leaving the Chamber as soon as I enter the speaker's seat. Apparently, he doesn't want to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Tribunal; tribunal. Well, that big word's out. Some time ago I got a firm reprimand from our regular, permanent chairman when I questioned Mr Frentrop in a different context about his opinion on the announced tribunals of his fellow party members in the House of Representatives. At that time, the word 'tribunal' was not allowed to be mentioned by the President in this Chamber, but today we can no longer ignore it. The word has also fallen many times. The CETA Convention provides for a new tribunal, the Investment Court System, short term "ICS." That tribunal is exclusive to multinationals. This ICS Investment Tribunal, governed by Chapter 8 of the CETA Convention, is a solution for other countries that are also parties to CETA but whose legal systems are not sufficiently reliable or adequate, for example some countries in Eastern Europe. Countries such as Hungary and Romania are often mentioned as examples, but they can also be other countries. In order to solve this problem, the Netherlands must now surrender its sovereignty and give up its independent justice. That is far too much for our group. We are very much in favour of trade, and certainly trade with Canada, but this ICS tribunal is going too far. Our objections therefore focus in particular on Chapter 8 of the CETA Convention, which deals with this tribunal. I have the CETA Convention without annexes here and I am now showing which part of the Convention is about that tribunal. That's a significant part of it. It is a form of privatisation of justice. A parallel legal system has already been mentioned, but only accessible to multinationals. That is not because Canada's and the Netherlands' legal systems would not be good, because they are indeed bad, but to solve the problem for those participating in the CETA Convention who do not have proper independent legal protection. For example, this CETA Convention creates a legal race to the bottom. But also for our farmers, who are already struggling with the bizarre nitrogen policy of the Rutte Cabinet, this CETA Convention is a deterioration. In our own Netherlands, our farmers have to meet very strict food safety requirements and animal welfare requirements, and rightly so, but by means of CETA food enters our country that has been produced in countries where much less stringent rules apply in these areas. This is not a level playing field for our farmers; this is not a level playing field. In Canada, for example, the food industry uses growth hormone ractopamine; it has also been discussed this morning in an interruption to Mr Van Ballekom. This drug has been banned in the Netherlands and many other countries in almost all the world since decades ago. Even in China, this medicine is no longer allowed. Mr. Chairman. The proceedings surrounding the parliamentary treatment of this CETA Convention are symptomatic and illustrative of how the Rutte Cabinet deals with the States General, that is to say, our elected parliament. The whole parliamentary trickbox was raised to take this treaty as quickly by the First Chamber under high pressure of time on the last day of the year, after two years first by the coalition and also by the PvdA all kinds of expert meetings, hearings, expert meetings and everything else organized to buy time. At some point, our group stopped attending these meetings, because it became increasingly clear that this was only a delay for certain parties, especially the coalition, who are very upset with the six seats they lack here in the First Chamber. As a hunter spying on his prey in a hunting lodge, the minister was waiting for an unguarded moment to occur at which she could strike, and this ill-digestible CETA treaty could quickly and deviously slip through this senate. Apparently, that moment was the last day of the summer recess of the First Chamber. Most Dutch people are head of vacation after two years of corona, the House of Representatives is already recessing and most members of the parliamentary press are also working on their holiday plans. No wonder more and more people are starting to lose faith in politics. Last week, in this House, we voted in favour of six amendments to the Constitution, at second reading. This was, among other things, the constitutional right to a fair trial, which is also very relevant in relation to this CETA Convention. It was also a new preamble to our Constitution, which states that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state. This required the consent of a two-thirds majority of this Chamber. This is the result of the idea of popular sovereignty. The people have sovereignty, the Constitution is being changed, and the voters can then decide on that change during the elections. After the first reading in Parliament, the second reading will take place, with the newly constituted Chambers once again having to confirm these constitutional changes by two-thirds majority; otherwise that sovereignty cannot be given away, because then the people would have no control over it. This CETA Treaty, which gives up important parts of the sovereignty of the Netherlands, must therefore be adopted by the First Chamber with a two-thirds majority, is the vision of many. There is indeed much to be said for this on the basis of the Constitution. We would like to hear from Minister Schreinemacher how she intends to achieve this two-thirds majority, because only with the Labour Party will it not succeed. We have therefore co-signed Mrs Faber's motion from the PVV, which calls for this. If this First Chamber agrees to this CETA Convention in its present form, which includes this ICS Tribunal for Multinationals, thanks to the Labour Party, then in fact it amounts to the privatisation of part of the case law, which also allows only multinational companies to sue. In its present form, this CETA Convention is therefore an optimization convention for multinationals. We are really wondering what inspires the Labour Party's senators to agree to this now. Joop den Uyl turns around in his grave if he saw what the PvdA is doing now. Spread of power, knowledge and income: these socialist ideals have now been exchanged by the PvdA for the rights of multinationals. The PvdA as the new union for the multinationals: who would have thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u345	Mr Otten does need very big words and strong twists to make a point and then goes into the Labour Party. I also mentioned Joop den Uyl. He was a very passionate social democrat, valued. He regarded himself as belonging to the sinful race of reformists. I'm with that club of reformists. What they do is to have the goal of a beautiful and socially just ideal for a sustainable world, but also to accept that sometimes it only goes with small steps. We then come to a certain weighting as a group in this Chamber after careful consultation, also with Joop den Uyl's aim in mind. To put it away in that way, that seems to me at least wrong. I wonder why Mr Otten needs that kind of statement to make his point. I'd like to ask you one more question. He also mentioned the whole parliamentary process. He said: the government is lurking from a hunter's pit to catch the prey and there's all been delays. Does Mr Otten agree with me that this treaty is so important that you should also look at it carefully in the Chamber as a whole, and that this careful treatment includes, for example, the hearing of experts and of the Commissioner at the time, Mr Hogan? I remember very well that he said at the time: we intend to carry out a general review of trade policy, so if the Chamber has any good suggestions, then give it to me. This Chamber has responded to that. I asked questions about that myself. This is a process that takes some time, because the Brussels mills are not always running at the same speed, but that does not mean that it is careless and that it was only aimed at delay. It was aimed at taking a few more steps together in the end. Does Mr Otten think that this is a careless process, only aimed at delay? Or is it the opposite of that, namely that you belong to the Chamber of Review experts, take steps and get information from the European Commission to see if you can take a few more steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u346	First of all, I note that all these expert meetings and all these consultations have not led to any amendment to the Treaty. Apparently that was directed to deaf ears. We and many other parties have said many times in the BDO committee: let us now deal with this in plenary. I started that at least a year and a half ago. Every time it came up, I said, let's deal with it in plenary. But there has always been a new request for experts, often from your group, I say to Mr Koole of the PvdA. Several groups have said: let us deal with it in plenary. It's been postponed every time. And voila, on the last day before the recess, it suddenly has to be treated with steam and boiling water between five other things. Yes, that's why I came to the analogy of the hunter in his hunting cabin who sits waiting for the roe to walk by and then tries to shoot in one shot, because then no one else got much more of it, because everyone is busy with his vacation. I think that's pretty cynical. We called for a plenary debate on several occasions a long time ago. Perhaps we could have done that earlier, I say to Mr Koole. In conclusion, all of Mr Koole's consultations have not achieved any improvement in practice. What did it get you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u347	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u348	These consultations do not belong to Mr Koole, who are at least a majority of the committee. That was because the Commissioner offered an opportunity to ask questions. We did. That's what we had to wait for. That had to be worked out. That was a trial. Mr Otten and others asked for it to be dealt with quickly, without waiting for the reaction of Hogan and his successor Dombrovkis. I don't think that's careful or correct. In the end, two weeks ago, or three weeks ago, that letter came with that Single Entry Point and those special commitments that were put in it. That happened two, three weeks ago. And now Mr Otten is going to slow down, when they always said: it needs to be treated quickly. No, at that point, all the information was inside and it could be handled. And then you do, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u349	I would like to draw Mr Koole's attention to the following. I happened to be looking back in preparation for this debate. Before corona, so that must have been somewhere in early 2020, I was a guest at Buitenhof about CETA and I already said: the government has to renegotiate it, send it back, that ICS has to get out. There are pretty good things in this treaty, but get that ICS out. If this is rejected by the Supreme Court, it will go back to the European Commission and then they will have to renegotiate it with Canada. That's our solution. That is a solution, and I said it two years ago in Buitenhof's programme; I also put it on my Twitter account, so you can see it all again. All this has been explained crystal clear, more than two years ago, so I would say to Mr Koole of the PvdA: look at Buitenhof more often, then you could have benefited from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u350	That's a good program, indeed. I understand from Mr Otten's reaction that he wants to negotiate quickly to agree, for a new treaty. That has not been the route that has been followed in this Chamber. There was an attempt to respond to Commissioner Hogan's invitation to see if we could achieve more. And that's what we've achieved. If you wanted it to be agreed as soon as possible, we should have done so earlier in your agenda, but fortunately we did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u351	Then there was a renegotiation earlier. I'll get to that in a minute, in the rest of my speech. Negotiating in Brussels is not exactly something this cabinet and the Prime Minister excel in, but I will get to that in a moment. I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u352	If you will allow me, you also addressed the Minister at the request of this bill on the very last day, but that is what this Chamber is about. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u353	I would like to remind you of the minutes of the College of Seniors. I'd read it if I were you. We first heard from the Minister that on 12 July this debate would be before we had even heard from the Upper House. I also asked: is it true that this debate is scheduled for 12 July, because that is what we hear from Minister Schreinemacher? Then I will say to the President: check the Minutes, because that was a bit strange. Hence my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u354	We'll look it up. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u355	We were just talking about the role of the PvdA, which still raises a lot of questions in its own constituency and in the merger partner. My question to Minister Schreinemacher is next. What commitments have been made to the PvdA by the Rutte cabinet in exchange for this support? Mr. Chairman. The proponents of CETA always defend the ICS Tribunal with the argument that this tribunal is never used in practice. I heard this argument this morning with Mr Backer of D66. A while ago, our group also had an extensive discussion with the Canadian Ambassador on CETA, at her invitation. During this conversation with the Canadian ambassador, I first thanked her extensively for the Canadian help in our liberation of the German occupying forces in 1945: thank you for liberaling us. I say that again to Canada: thank you. Canada is an important ally, including in NATO, which is now being extended to include Sweden and Finland. That is what we are debating tomorrow. Moreover, I say that we will vote for the accession of Sweden and Finland, and you know that. Mr. Chairman. Contrary to some other groups, we do not believe that, almost eighty years after liberation, we should accept a treaty with unfavourable provisions for the Netherlands without a hitch because of things from a distant past that we are also very grateful for. Nor do we find the deteriorating international situation a reason to vote in favour of a treaty which is bad for the Netherlands. Mr Koole of the PvdA seems to think that we should. And the Canadians have always used the argument: the ICS tribunal is never used in practice. "Well, then take it out," was my reaction to the Canadian ambassador, Lisa Helfand, "if it isn't used, then get it out." But that is something we absolutely do not want. There has never been so much discussion about a provision which, according to the signatories and the advocates, is never going to be used but which is absolutely not to be taken out. Something's not right here. Perhaps the Minister can explain to us why she thinks we need this tribunal, if everyone thinks it is never going to be used. Because we don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u356	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mr Otten whether he realizes that it is not a bilateral agreement between the Netherlands and Canada, because then I think that we would not need an ICS, but that it is a treaty between Canada and the European Union. And the European Union is somewhat larger than the Netherlands alone; therefore, it may still have advantages in terms of investment protection. Did you get through that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u357	Yes, I have certainly understood that, I say to Mr Van Ballekom. And you don't have to speak to me in such a bathing VVD manner, I say after that. But what we have always promoted is that we are doing it with multilateral solutions. We can do just fine together with Canada. That's got a fine legal system. We have an excellent legal system. Let us do that multilaterally, so between those countries themselves with Canada. Why do we have to go to Hungarian, Romanian, Bulgarian standards, because it is not properly regulated there? So that's what I called the "race to the legal bottom." We shouldn't do that. We just need our own... We keep talking about standards and values. I had to think about that when Mr Van Ballekom made his contribution. If he gets an offer on his spacious one-million-dollar villa, does he say, "No, I'd rather sell it for half a million cheaper to someone who shares my values and values?" Of course you don't, because you want the best possible transaction. Well, that's what we want for the Netherlands too, and that's why this should have been renegotiated. So the sooner we could have dealt with this as the First Chamber and voted away, the sooner we had renegotiated. And then a much better deal had already been worked out for the Netherlands, I say to Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u358	Mr Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u359	In other words, you are in favour of 27 bilateral treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u360	Well, a mechanism in which that is resolved bilaterally, yes. At least not in the way it's happening now, because this is a race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u361	There's no race to the bottom. But do you really think that when 27 Member States of the European Union individually conclude a trade agreement with Canada, that is better than when we do it together? As I have just said, I think Canada is more interested in accessing a market of 500 million people than in accessing a market of 17 million consumers. This is also evident in the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the United States, which the United Kingdom had hoped would be able to negotiate a hugely good bilateral treaty - quod non! And that will also happen when we negotiate 27 bilateral agreements with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u362	Mr Van Ballekom does not understand my answer, but he sometimes does not want to understand things properly. I say that as an EU you can conclude a trade agreement, but the ICS tribunal should not have been in it at all; you could have solved that through a system of bilateral dispute resolution mechanisms........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And perhaps Mr Van Ballekom is familiar with the saying 'don't catch up in doubt'. Well, the VVD's gonna be reckless ghost riding here, catching up like crazy. So if it's not a good transaction for the Netherlands, then we shouldn't; then we should do it differently, I say to the VVD. Anyway, I see more questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u363	Mr. Chairman. Did I get it right? Then everything related to trade would have been able to count on Mr Otten's permission. And if that is the case, there are a number of agreements with Singapore, for example, which we do not even get here, because there is no dispute settlement system. Then how do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u364	Everyone I talk to says this is never used. Then I ask you, Mrs Oomen of the CDA, and anyone who wants to sign this treaty but says that it is never used: why is it not taken out? Then why do you have to put it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u365	Because Mr Otten, if he is an investor in Canada and something happens that harms the Canadian government's interests, then he has the choice not only to go to Canadian justice, but also to have this investment tested by another body. That's an extra option he'll be able to choose. If I'm a Canadian investor and I'm being thwarted by the Bulgarian government, what do I choose? Do I choose Bulgarian justice, which is not too fast, or for a system that is also transparent, to appoint good judges and so on? Is that really the bottleneck? 'Cause you're okay with the trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u366	Finally, Mr. Otten. Then we can continue to listen to your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u367	This question has already been asked to previous speakers: you have two choices, the multinational tribunal, which is of course extremely favourable to multinationals, or the local judge. But then I say to Mrs Oomen: you have two choices, a vegetarian meatball in the cafeteria or a steak in a nice restaurant. What do you choose? In this case, of course, if you are not from the Party for Animals, choose the best option for you. Of course, all these multinationals will go to this Investment Court System. That seems pretty clear to me. It can also render existing legislation ineffective and compensate for damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u368	Mr President, one sentence. Mr Otten is only talking about multinationals, but this is about investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u369	That was one sentence. I would suggest to Mr Otten that he resume his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u370	Most investors are multinational, I say to Mrs Oomen. At least the big investors do. They also have access to good lawyers, who, of course, cost an enormous amount of money. Mr Van Ballekom said that "the baker on the corner" can go to this tribunal. Of course, that's just hilarious. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u371	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u372	The next point, Mr President. Why does the Cabinet refuse to renegotiate this CETA Convention? If the First Chamber does not approve the current form of the CETA Convention, no man or woman is yet overboard. Then the EU will have to renegotiate with Canada. Of course, that should have been done a long time ago. Now we know that solid negotiation in Brussels is the Achilles heel of our Prime Minister. If there is something Mark Rutte can't do, then it is with the fist on the table in Brussels and stand up for the interests of the Netherlands, for the inhabitants of the Netherlands, for the Dutch workers, I say to Mr Koole of the PvdA, and for the Dutch farmer. We can also see this with these idiotic Natura 2000 stamp areas, which, of course, need to be rationalised for a long time to a smaller number of robust nature areas. Together with the closure of the largest polluter in the Netherlands, Tata Steel, you solved the nitrogen and CO problems in the Netherlands in one go. But the cabinet refuses to talk to Brussels at all. Meanwhile, the Netherlands continues to guarantee the fast growing debt mountain of the southern euro countries and we are increasingly being messed up by this cabinet. We therefore call on Minister Schreinemacher to re-negotiate with the Prime Minister, both in Brussels and with his good friend Trudeau. In its present form, we have no choice but to vote against this CETA Convention. We call on everyone, including the entire PvdA Group, to come to their senses and to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u373	Thank you, Mr. Otten. This brings us to the end of the first term. Does one of the Members still wish to speak? That is not the case. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Do you have enough time if we suspend until 4:30? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u374	I would ask Members to take their seats. The next item is the continuation of the debate on CETA and the strategic partnership agreement. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I propose to the members that the Minister be given the opportunity to complete a block each time and then to cluster your interruptions. We're fighting a little against time, but if we do it this way, I'm confident we're all gonna make it. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u375	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all Members for the contributions and the questions. Your Chamber is today discussing the European Union's Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada, better known as CETA, and the Strategic Partnership Agreement which focuses on political cooperation between the EU and Canada. On behalf of my fellow Minister Hoekstra, I will also talk about this strategic partnership agreement, abbreviated SPA. Today's debate is long awaited. CETA and SPA were signed in 2016. The European Parliament approved the Treaties in February 2017. The provisional application of SPA started in April 2017 and the provisional application of CETA subsequently started in September of that year. In 2020, the House of Representatives approved the ratification of the CETA Convention and the Strategic Partnership Agreement, after which discussion started in the First Chamber. In the meantime, a large number of written questions from the members of the BDO Committee of your Chamber on CETA have been answered. Round tables have been organised and stakeholders have been spoken to. I would like to thank the members of the BDO Committee for the careful written preparation of the CETA approval bill recently. Mr. Chairman. As indicated by your Member Koole and several other Members, the current geopolitical situation calls for a mature and effective EU action. In doing so, the EU needs equal partners. Bonds are more important than ever, but they're not for picking up. Canada is in all respects a unique partner for the EU and for the Netherlands and with Canada, in addition to an intensive trade relationship, we share common interests and essential values of democratic principles, human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and good governance. And we share the conviction and commitment to our international, law-based organization and universal values. Canada is a member of the G7 and the G20. It is an active player in foreign policy matters and as a NATO ally it has been contributing to European security for decades. SPA and CETA form the basis for further deepening the relationship between the EU and Canada. Then about SPA. Let me first mention the political and security relationship with Canada, which is the subject of the strategic partnership agreement. Canada is a crucial partner for the EU. Let me give an example of some important issues. For example, Ukraine. Since 2015, Canada has had a military training mission in Ukraine, with which approximately 33,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been trained in recent years. Since the war, the Canadian military have been brought back from Ukraine. Canada has provided support in many areas since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, including military, humanitarian, financial and cyber. Canada, together with the President of the European Commission and the Polish President, organised the "Stand up for Ukraine" global pledge event, in partnership with the international interest organisation Global Citizen. That campaign has given more than $12.4 billion a commitment. In the NATO context, Canada has currently deployed 450 military forces in Latvia as a leading nation in the context of our forward defence, i.e. the enhanced forward presence. The Netherlands and Canada are also very similar in NATO to arms control, in particular nuclear weapons control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u376	Minister, before you continue, I wonder which block this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u377	This is the SPA block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u378	Agreed. Do you indicate when this block is closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u379	Yes. I can give you the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u380	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u381	I will speak first about SPA, and then, of course, about CETA. At CETA, I deal with the following issues. First general, with, for example, the figures requested by different parties. Then there is the agricultural sector. Then there are the sustainability agreements. Then there's the new grievance mechanism. Then investment protection. Then the governance of CETA, i.e. the Convention Committees. Then the Constitution. And finally, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u382	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u383	Canada and the Netherlands are very similar in NATO. Canada and the Netherlands are both members of the Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Initiative. That is a group of 12 countries that advocates greater transparency on nuclear weapons. In order to effectively defend and promote universal values such as human rights worldwide, the deepening and concreteisation of cooperation as included in SPA is essential. The same applies to other challenges, such as maintaining the multilateral system, security and climate. Together, we're stronger. That may be a cliché, but that is no less true. In short, it is particularly important in these times that the EU should show towards other major powers who its partners are, and that it should actively strengthen and deepen its global partnerships across the broad spectrum, both economically and politically. The bilateral relationship between the Netherlands and Canada is excellent, based on mutual trust and shared values. The close cooperation between our countries has once again been underlined by the visit of Prime Minister Trudeau to the Netherlands at the end of October. That was two days after the installation of his third cabinet. During that visit, it was agreed, among other things, to launch biennial government consultations on security, climate and democracy. The Netherlands has an interest in anchoring and consolidating these relations at the European level as well. To conclude on SPA, this strategic partnership agreement deepens and strengthens our cooperation with Canada. We are also sending out a clear signal to all players who, like the Netherlands and the EU, want to continue to work for a rules-based world order. To other players in the world, we clearly show that the EU and Canada have a relationship that is stronger than ever and that the EU and its allies are strengthening their cooperation. If we want the EU to act as a capable geopolitical player, then we must equip the EU to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u384	So that was the block on the strategic partnership agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u385	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u386	Can you push the button again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u387	I can! Thank you. Maybe I should repeat my words. At the end of the SPA block, the strategic partnership agreement, the Minister again started again. We have heard earlier today about the shared standards and values with Canada, about the need to stand strong together in this turbulent geopolitical world, about the war in Ukraine, about the need for the EU to be a strong geopolitical actor. That's all at your service. That is what the NATO alliance is for. The block was about that strategic partnership agreement. That's what we've got for that. That's what he's expressing. My group in the House of Representatives voted in favour of this strategic partnership agreement. We might as well do that again tomorrow. But just for the sake of the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u388	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u389	My question concerns the order of the debate. This has nothing to do with CETA or with the Minister's portfolio. We can determine that. We're just talking about SPA right now. All these arguments therefore do not apply to CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u390	I am also here on behalf of Minister Hoekstra of Foreign Affairs. This part was in particular on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u391	No, but then that's clear. This was about SPA and so it wasn't about CETA. That's what I wanted to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u392	Yes. Okay, then I'll move on. SPA and CETA are both part of the EU's instruments to strengthen our relationship with Canada, because geopolitics also means being able to connect different policy areas and the relationship with third countries from the full breadth. Political cooperation, SPA, and trade, CETA, are not separate worlds, but go hand in hand. There is no other way to do this in a partnership that is so important. Both agreements strengthen the relationship with Canada and its essential building blocks in an intensive cooperation across the full breadth of our agenda with Canada. It is with Canada that these agreements can be used to consolidate our relationship. That is urgently needed in a restless, unpredictable world. I now come to CETA. First of all, I would like to address the general geopolitical importance of this. Although the text of the CETA Convention is unchanged, the circumstances are not. Both geopolitics and the implementation of EU trade policy have changed a lot since the consent of the Lower House more than two years ago. We also have more experience with the operation and consequences of CETA itself. The vast majority of the Convention has been applied provisionally for almost five years now. Entrepreneurs are increasingly finding their way into the benefits of CETA. For example, the use of tariff preferences has increased further, unnecessary barriers such as double testing obligations have been removed and the volume of trade between Canada and the Netherlands has increased from EUR 7.2 billion in 2016 to EUR 10.3 billion in 2020. As I just said, it's a time of geopolitical turbulence. The debate on CETA is therefore very relevant in this context. Europe and Canada stand side by side in a turbulent world with a war on the edges of our continent. The Trade Treaty is a central part of our relations with an important transatlantic ally. The Trade Treaty also deals with shared values and interests between the EU and Canada, between the Netherlands and Canada, about the importance of EU cooperation with similar partners in order to continue to defend these values and interests. One could say that the importance of alliances and the establishment of agreements on international trade has become even greater. There are critics who say: at your service, that good relations with Canada, but you don't need a trade agreement for that at all? I say to them: trade and investment are the cement of good relations. You're gonna settle that with a treaty base. We see that within the EU and we see that in countries with which we conclude such treaties. With a country such as South Korea, commonality is increased by giving our trade relations by treaty a firmer basis. A country such as Vietnam is adapting to our standards now that we have agreed on them by treaty. And, as many of your Members have said, what signal do we send when we say to Canada: we do not want a trade agreement with you; we have no confidence in it? Trade agreements and CETA in particular are therefore not on their own. Especially in the current geopolitical context, trade agreements strengthen existing partnerships with countries outside the European Union. In addition, they can contribute to the diversification of trade chains and thereby reduce risky strategic dependencies of non-similar countries. Modern trade agreements go beyond trade alone. The EU and the Netherlands are at the forefront of strengthening and protecting our international organisation, which is based on legal rules and universal values. That world order is not self-evident, that's how we see it every day. From a geopolitical and geoeconomic perspective, the fact that the EU is concluding trade agreements is of great importance, for example as a counterweight to the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative, and especially as geopolitical relations shift as a result of the war in Ukraine. CETA as a modern and ambitious trade agreement also has an important role to play here. That is actually an open and strategic autonomy in practice. Modern trade agreements are also about shared values, as I have just said, and the ambitions in the areas of sustainable development, the environment and labour protection. This is the subject of concrete binding agreements in CETA. I'll come back to that later. Although some parties point out that these agreements do not go far enough, I see them as an important step forward in expanding international cooperation. If we reject a treaty because it would not go far enough, we will also say no to the steps that can be taken now. It is precisely on the basis of these steps that we can move forward and then work towards further cooperation. Before going into the content of the Convention, I would like to begin with a general statement on the trade relationship between Europe and Canada. CETA is not the beginning of trade relations, as many of your members have reminded us today. Even without this trade agreement, these like-minded partners have been trading for decades. It has also been said a number of times that CETA, as a neoliberal agreement, is aimed at maximum liberalisation, but that really is an incorrect representation of the facts. The Treaty is much more a framework within which trade is facilitated and in which we jointly strive for higher and better standards. Canada has traditionally been an important trading partner for the Netherlands. Canada is the twelfth destination of Dutch exports of goods outside the EU and the twentieth country of origin of Dutch imports from outside the EU. CETA as an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement further strengthens the trade relationship and strengthens the regulatory framework on the basis of which this trade takes place. CETA, as has been said, has been provisionally applied for the most part for almost five years. Trade between the EU and Canada has become easier at that time. Obstacles are and are removed. For example, unnecessary double testing on product standards will be abolished, without affecting the product standards that apply here and the product standards that apply in Canada. In particular, SMEs exporters benefit from this. Import tariffs are also going down. CETA removes 98% of all Canadian import tariffs from the EU. This means that Dutch exporters to Canada become more competitive and leave more margin on their products. For example, Canadian import tariffs for Dutch cheese have fallen from 245% to less than 1% under CETA. Conversely, Dutch importers can more easily obtain products from Canada that strengthen the competitive position of Dutch processors. As I just mentioned, the volume of our trade with Canada has increased sharply since 2016, by some EUR 3.1 billion. As we know, Dutch prosperity and employment depend heavily on our international presence. But the agreement not only increases market access over and over again. It brings together two major transatlantic partners in intensive discussions on the design of trade, on investment, on value chains and on the sustainability goals for our shared future. Some of you have raised questions and expressed concerns about certain aspects of this Convention, such as product and production standards, the powers of the Committees under CETA and the ICS in relation to the Constitution. And there are concerns that foreign investors and large companies would have a priority position vis-à-vis NGOs if complaints are made about compliance with this Convention. I'd like to answer the questions now. I would like to point out that, while CETA does not solve all the problems in the world, it provides us with a more solid basis for increasing our common prosperity, for protecting our public interests, for protecting vulnerable sectors in our agriculture and for substantial progress in transatlantic cooperation on sustainability objectives. I would also like to say that CETA, together with SPA, is in favour of the international cooperation and partnership that the EU needs at this time more than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u393	Thank you. That was your block in general, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u394	Yeah, there's something else coming up on the numbers. If I may put that under the block in general...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u395	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u396	Then I'm gonna go into some questions, too. I come to examples of entrepreneurs trading with Canada. Much has been said that it is only a treaty for the multinationals. That's incorrect. There are currently more than 4,000 Dutch companies trading with Canada, most of which are SMEs, "CETA in your town," as the European Commission says. This concerns, for example, a trader in tap equipment and materials for beverages. There is also a company that provides a platform with geomarketing tools. Another company is developing products for sustainable climate control in buildings. So it's not just big multinationals that benefit from CETA, but also a lot of SMEs. In reply to Mr Backer's question, who wants the official figures of the export balance and wants to hear which sectors benefit from it, so far known to the government and the European Commission, I say the following. In 2021, Dutch goods imports from Canada amounted to 2.4 billion euros, while the Netherlands exported 3.4 billion euros of goods. For the year 2021, no figures for trade in services are yet available, but for the year 2020. In 2020, imports of Canadian services amounted to 1.6 billion euros, while Dutch services exported 3.2 billion euros. I would also like to share the trade figures between the EU and Canada. In 2021, EU goods imports from Canada amounted to 23.6 billion euros, while the EU exported 37.3 billion euros of goods. In 2020, imports of Canadian services amounted to EUR 11.7 billion, while the EU exported EUR 15.5 billion. Both imports and exports are important for the economy. Mr Backer specifically asked about the trade balance. I can tell you that in 2020 both the EU and the Netherlands had a trade surplus of both goods and services. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn, on behalf of the SP, asked for progress on the path of hyperglobalisation and the role that CETA would play in it. I do not share Mr Van Apeldoorn's view of CETA as an instrument for promoting hyperglobalisation. CETA, on the contrary, provides a framework to strengthen predictable and rules-based trade. In doing so, facilitating trade is an objective, but also, for example, sustainable development. Just now, trade agreements are valuable. They can contribute to the diversification of trading partners, as I have just said, and address undesirable dependencies. CETA is also about shared values and interests between the EU, and certainly not undermining our democracy, as I will explain later. On behalf of the Animal Party, it was asked: which consumer goods will be cheaper by CETA and why does the government want to promote their consumption? Lower import rates for certain goods or parts thereof will make products directly or indirectly cheaper for consumers. Two specific products whose imports increased significantly after CETA provided lower import rates are cranberries and sweet potatoes. Under CETA, the import tariff on cranberry and cranberry juice imports was reduced from around 17% to 0%. During that period, since the provisional application of CETA, imports of cranberry and cranberry juice increased from EUR 13.7 million in 2016 to EUR 39.9 million in 2021. The same applies to sweet potatoes. As a result of CETA, the import tariff was reduced from around 8% to 0% and imports increased from EUR 7.2 million in 2016 to EUR 16.8 million in 2021. The purpose of the Cabinet is not to promote the consumption of specific goods through CETA, but to remove trade barriers in total. Then Mrs Huizinga of the Christian Union asked me how to assess the values of CETA for our economy so far and whether I have up-to-date data on the impact of CETA on our Dutch economy. CETA gives Dutch companies new or better access to a market of 35 million people. This is of great value to the Netherlands, which, as a trading country, earns a third of its GDP with international trade. This will, among other things, make it easier for Dutch companies to export products to Canada and to use products from Canada more easily in their production processes. They improve their international competitiveness, and this has a positive impact on our economy. The agreement has been provisionally applied since 2017. It is therefore difficult to determine exactly what the impact of CETA on our GDP is. The increased trade since the provisional application of CETA already shows that Dutch market players are taking advantage of the economic opportunities that CETA offers. From 2016 to 2020, exports to Canada increased from EUR 4.9 billion to EUR 6.5 billion and imports from EUR 2.3 billion to EUR 3.8 billion. Research by the CBS shows that our exporters and importers are increasingly making better use of CETA's tariff preferences. In 2020 54% of Dutch exports benefited from tariff preferences under CETA. In 2018, that was 38%, so it's rising. Mrs Huizinga also asked if I could go into the information provided by evofenedex and VNO-NCW that Dutch SMEs in particular benefit from this trade agreement, even much more than multinationals. As I said earlier, I can generally agree that Dutch SMEs can benefit more from CETA than multinationals. Research carried out by the CBS shows that independent SMEs use tariff preferences in CETA relatively more often than large companies. It is precisely the cost savings through low rates that are of great value to SMEs. Well, then I'm at the end of the general heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u397	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at the members for the interruptions. I propose one interruption per questioner per block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u398	The Minister said that SMEs would also benefit from trade. Yes, of course it is, but it is also about investment. Is it also the SMEs who invest? Do you have any examples of this? Because I do have the impression that this is more the case with multinationals and not the barber on the corner or the baker on the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u399	I do not have figures of investment by hairdressers on the corner, but in general, investments often involve large companies or companies that set up factories. You make an investment in another country, which will be less the case for SMEs than for large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u400	May I ask a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u401	Yeah, if it's on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u402	Oh, yeah. Then I can conclude that we are talking about multinationals, because multinationals already say that they operate in several countries. I do not think that this is really a small business that is going to set up a factory in Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u403	Of course, you do have ways for Dutch companies to have things produced in other countries, so that doesn't have to be very large companies right away, without mentioning names. There is a lot between an SME on the corner with ten people employed or a multinational with thousands of people employed. Of course, there's a lot in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u404	The Minister states that CETA does not drive globalisation, but I believe that it will drive globalisation if you liberalise trade, investment and services. I had another question, including about SMEs. I have often heard this figure, also this morning, namely that 93% of companies trading with Canada are SMEs. By the way, these are not the bakers around the corner, but rather large, more medium-sized companies than small ones, but this aside. I have two questions about that. One. 93% of SMEs deal with Canada. How much is that of the total number of Dutch SMEs? Two. How much of the total trade volume of the Netherlands with Canada do these companies, that 93%, account for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u405	We have a lot of SMEs. In Europe, I think even in the Netherlands, there are more than a million. We now have 4,000 companies trading with Canada. So not every SME that wants to trade with Canada benefits from this. That's the point. It's not just about tariffs on some products that go down or disappear. But it is also important, for example, that a product should not be tested on our side and on the Canadian side. That's how you make it easier. So I would not be able to give you the exact volume as far as SMEs are concerned within the total volume of trade right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u406	To clarify?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u407	Yeah, just to clarify. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that in the second term. As far as the first is concerned, I note that, according to the Minister, we are talking about 4,000 SMEs, out of a total of one million companies trading with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u408	I have not heard the words 'pandemic' and 'zoonosis' in the list of cubes. I did ask a question about that. I expected it to be dealt with in the "general" block, but that did not happen. Is it still in one of the other cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u409	It will be dealt with in a later block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u410	I would ask the Minister to continue her speech with the block of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u411	A number of your Members have expressed concern about the possible negative impact of CETA on Dutch agriculture. Thus it is indicated that CETA would intervene in the competitive position of Dutch agriculture and would compete away. Mrs Faber and Mrs Prast, among others, made this point. I believe that these concerns lack ground. All agreements in CETA on agriculture have been provisionally applied for almost five years. None of the concerns about the impact of CETA on our agricultural sector have become reality. The tariff-free market access from Canada to the EU for competitive agricultural products is very limited. These are quantities that will also be built up over a number of years. In addition, the sectors most sensitive to the Netherlands, such as poultry and eggs, are even completely excluded from tariff liberalisation under CETA. Also in the figures we see no abundance of Canadian agricultural products flooding our market. Imports of beef and pork remain limited and well below the permitted quotas. We can see that imports of products that are needed in Europe are increasing, such as cranberry's, as I said just now. Canada is an important source of necessary commodities for the Dutch agricultural sector, such as soya and rape. On the export side, we see a sharp increase in exports of Dutch dairy products and of Dutch pork to Canada. Compared to 2016 figures, exports of cheese and pork to Canada have doubled. Together, the Netherlands exports more meat to Canada than it imports from Canada. Mrs Oomen of the CDA asked: is it true that agriculture accounts for only 4% of the export volume and the rest is non-agricultural? Does this mean that non-farming has many additional opportunities in the social debate? Annual exports of agricultural goods to Canada have indeed been on average 5% of the total Dutch export volume since the provisional application of CETA. If we also include the export of services, it is only 2% on average. CETA certainly offers many export opportunities for non-agricultural sectors, both in goods and services sectors. For example, exports of chemical products have also increased steadily since the provisional application of CETA. In 2021, the Netherlands exported 818 million euros of chemicals to Canada. In 2016, this amounted to only 659 million euros. This also applies to various medical products. The export of telecom and computer services has also increased since the provisional application of CETA. Mrs Prast asked about the pandemic assessment. The commitment to eliminating the risk of a zoonoses outbreak has nothing to do with the trade agreement, but with the regular EU rules to prevent zoonoses. For admission into the internal market, all imported products must comply with EU requirements for imports in the field of plant and animal health and food safety aimed at preventing the spread of diseases, including zoonoses. This also applies to products coming into the EU from Canada, but in fact to all products entering the EU worldwide. In addition, Mrs Prast indicated that dairy trade is hundreds of percent higher due to CETA and that Minister Staghouwer said that food scarcity would lead to greater awareness of our food patterns and how it relates to CETA. She asked if Minister Staghouwer and I were actually on the same page. The statements of Minister Staghouwer were made in the context of the current interruptions of global trade flows resulting, inter alia, from the Russian invasion of Ukraine. On the contrary, the situation underlines the importance of diversifying our trade flows. Diversification of imports may reduce the risk of possible shortages. Trade agreements such as CETA can be an important facilitating factor in diversifying trade flows. With the provisional entry into force, trade in dairy products has indeed increased significantly over the last five years. The quota for cheese is increasingly used by European producers. Of the total cheese exports to Canada, about 10% come from the Netherlands. I still have a few questions, but maybe it's in this context...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u412	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u413	Okay. Mrs Prast also said that the cabinet makes demands on our own farmers that are not made of Canadian farmers and that that is unfair competition for Dutch farmers. I do not agree with that, because for the use of plant protection products, the EU and countries outside the EU have their own laws and regulations to assess whether or not plant protection products should be placed on that market. This assessment may vary from country to country, as countries take account of their own agricultural, climatic, environmental and geographical conditions. As a result, plant protection products other than those in the EU may be on the market in countries outside the EU. If use is authorised in a third country, an interested party in that country has the possibility to apply to the Commission for a higher MRL, a so-called import tolerance, for import into the EU. However, the Commission's decision on granting a higher MRL is independent of CETA and generally applies to placing products on the EU market from all third countries. An increased import tolerance shall only be granted if the risk assessment shows that food and feed containing this higher MRL are safe for human and animal consumption. Then Mr Van Dijk's question of the SGP whether the Netherlands makes higher demands on animal welfare and can therefore make Canadian competitors cheaper. Agricultural entrepreneurs have to meet different standards, which vary from country to country. Eventually, there are a multitude of factors involved in determining the final competitive position of Canadian and Dutch companies, as I said earlier. It is therefore a question of capital costs, such as land and buildings, energy input, energy costs, taxes and labour rights. So there are several factors that are part of your entire competitive position. Then Mrs Huizinga of the Christian Union. She asked me if, looking back on the past five years, concerns about inferior producers, for example, were justified. These concerns have not been justified. NVWA and Customs carry out random checks on imports of products into the EU. If products do not comply with EU rules at border controls, they will be refused. Since 2017, 38 out of a total of 4,502 shipments from Canada have been refused by NVWA, i.e. 0.8%. This mainly concerned refusals of documents and omissions in material control, e.g. incorrect packaging or exposure to too high temperatures. This is a lower percentage than the total number of refusals on imports from third countries in 2020/2021. Mrs Huizinga of the Christian Union also asked about competition and the problem of nitrogen. Can our farmers be more exposed to competition from Canada due to the problem of nitrogen, because there are no restrictions on agriculture because of nitrogen? The rules in force in Canada are different from those in Europe and the Netherlands, but that does not mean that the level of protection of humans, the environment and animals is necessarily lower or higher. The circumstances in Canada are also different, as I said earlier. The need for agricultural entrepreneurs to comply with various national standards that differ applies in various areas. Ultimately, a multitude of factors play a role in determining this ultimate competitive position, and sustainability must not be priced out of the market, but must be priced in the market. This applies to all aspects of sustainability, from animal welfare requirements to nitrogen measures. For export, the Netherlands is therefore also committed to the export of high-quality, sustainable products at CETA rather than focusing on large volumes. CETA gives Dutch farmers new or better access to a market of 35 million people, and this applies not only to agricultural goods and agri-food products, but also, for example, to agricultural-related machines and knowledge. The Dutch agricultural sector, and in particular the dairy and meat producers, therefore has a trade surplus with Canada. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked how the government sees nitrogen policy, i.e. the competitive disadvantage and future benefits for agriculture at CETA. In fact, I have already answered this question. For agricultural products sensitive to competition from third countries and subject to a quota under CETA, the balance of trade with Canada is developing positively. For example, the Netherlands exports more pork and beef to Canada than it imports. This positive trade balance for meat has grown since the provisional application of CETA in 2017. So much for the agricultural cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u414	Thank you. Are there any interruptions in this respect? Once again, one interruption per colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u415	Thank you to the Minister for listing the facts and figures. I'm actually interested in your vision. We have an agricultural crisis in this country. We have protests from the farmers. We have a policy in which intensive livestock farming needs to shrink. And you stand here and tell... I mean, Mr. Chairman, the Minister stands here and proudly tells about the figures of doubling meat exports and dairy products. How am I supposed to see that? So how are we gonna organize that? On the one hand, we need to reduce and, on the other hand, there is this pressure of production for the world market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u416	Thank you for that question. As I have just said, we are talking about exports and we, like the Netherlands, really want to focus on high-quality, sustainable products and not so much on very large volumes. So the export of products can rise very well while ultimately reducing production in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u417	Can the Minister explain in a little more detail how she intends to do that? Everything I've heard from you so far has been based on quantity. You have presented all the figures now and that was more, more, more. So can you give your vision on how that's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u418	In any case, that is one way of measuring whether the trade agreement is successful for our entrepreneurs and whether, for example, they can export more of some products than they can import. The point is that, for example, our pig farmers and our beef producers do not face greater competition than would have been the case without CETA. How we deal with the problem of nitrogen and the solutions that we agree with farmers, in conjunction with the provinces, are matters that Mrs van der Wal is going to do together with Minister Staghouwer. I don't think that's a good idea for this debate. What I do want to say is that I think it's about the way you produce, as I said, and that we do it in a sustainable way. I cannot imagine Mrs Karimi being against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u419	Mrs Faber, whatever I allow you to do, I must also allow others to do so. An interruption is, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u420	Yeah, I think an interruption consists of three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u421	No, no, no, no, no. I'm sorry, let's really keep this as a discipline, unless you're asking for clarification very clearly. But if you raise a new point, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u422	Mr President, I just want to draw a conclusion. That is that the Minister does not really answer the essential question to which this Treaty is actually addressed. Is it just about increasing the quantity, the volume of exports? Because that's your story, Minister. When it comes to solving the agricultural crisis in this country, you simply do not give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u423	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u424	The Minister states that farmers have access to a market of 35 million people. But what good is it if you're limited by nitrogen ceilings and so on? Because how does the Minister see that? If we are limited here, we are not going to export anymore. When we talk about pork, for example, the Minister says: the concerns that have been expressed have not become true. No, not yet, no, because the pig farmers are all going to be bought out. And in five years, Canada will be able to export more pork. Isn't that so nicely tuned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u425	Let me say the following. I'm gonna have to get some good grades. In 2020, 0% of the pigmeat quota in the Netherlands was filled in by Canadian imports. So there is no pork imported from Canada in the Netherlands. I understand you're saying more pork could be imported. Yes, every gram of pork that will be imported more will be more, because last year it was zero. So it could be that more pork will be imported. However, I do not think that we should look with the cabinet and with the agricultural sector to see how we can cope with the nitrogen crisis. We are particularly looking at a way to produce high quality meat in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u426	To clarify this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u427	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I didn't get an answer. I also asked how the Minister sees in practice that farmers can export more. They have access to a market of 35 million people, but they are limited here by nitrogen and phosphate ceilings and so on. Then I've been talking about pigs and pork. Yes, it is true that it is not yet exported from Canada, because that need is not yet there, but when in a few years we have wiped out all the pig farmers, that need is of course there. What I'm saying is, doesn't it seem very convenient to the Minister that all the pig farmers are being wiped out? Then Canada can go ahead and export the pork. So we're gonna go get our bacon rags 6,000 miles away. I don't think that's very good for the climate, and not really sustainable, not that I have a thing for the climate, but your party does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u428	The point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u429	I am far from saying that I would be pleased that pig farmers are now living in concerns about how they can continue their business. Let us also point out that it is not the case that all pig farmers are going to disappear from the Netherlands. That's just wrong. We are going to see, with pig farmers and with the whole agricultural sector, how we can achieve high-quality, sustainable food production.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u430	That's life, Mrs Faber. We're gonna get six more cubes, so you're gonna get plenty of chance to come back and there's a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u431	Mr President, it goes by block. Then I come up with questions and I don't get an answer. Then I may ask two questions and then you may be a bit of a coulant and then I may ask a third question, but then I simply don't get an answer. I still do not have an answer to say that the volume of exports should increase, but that farmers are framed by all these rules. I just can't get an answer to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u432	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can you answer any more on this point, or do you say: this was my answer? Then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u433	As I said, it's not like all pig farmers are going to disappear from the Netherlands. There will be a lot of pig farmers left who can also continue to export their pork to Canada. That is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u434	When I asked whether the cabinet considered the zoonoses risk in the proposal for ratification, I drew attention to the conclusions of the expert group set up by the Cabinet: more trade is more zoonoses risk and the Netherlands is a hotspot. I didn't get an answer to that. I have received the answer that there is also an inspection in Canada, but that was not my question. I would like an answer to my question. That zoonosis question was also about the fact that the Netherlands will do everything in its power to prevent a new pandemic. How does that fit in with this, then, was my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u435	As I said, excluding the risk of a zoonoses outbreak has nothing to do with this trade agreement but with the regular EU rules to prevent zoonoses. The Netherlands would like to make a commitment to this. I do this not only with my colleague from VWS, but also with my colleague from LNV. We are also looking at what we allow on the internal EU market. All imported products must comply with EU import requirements in the field of plant and animal health. The same applies to products coming into the EU from Canada. This risk is something the cabinet sees and we take it very seriously, as Mrs Prast also points out. We are really working on that, but I am not just doing that, I am doing that with my fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u436	This is actually a repeat of the previous answer, so that doesn't help me much. But by not ratifying, we could ensure that the trade that the expert committee warns about does not increase, and that more dragging of live animals, the other risk factor that the committee calls, would reduce. So I don't understand why the cabinet doesn't. I don't understand the consistency. Could the Minister still try to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u437	In conclusion, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u438	Well, in conclusion... Look, in the end, this trade takes place without CETA. So it's more like CETA now, but it's also happening without CETA. I think it is also important that we see that we are also looking outside the context of CETA at how we deal with these zoonoses risks. That is what we are doing, among other things, with colleagues, and we are looking at whether these products comply with the rules, especially in the case of food safety, which is aimed at preventing the spread of diseases. I understand the question: shouldn't we do less? I believe that the transport of animals can contribute to this, but that we should do so more safely, and not just less in relation to trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u439	Thank you. No, I'm referring you to your second term. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by explaining why I am here and not Mr Van Dijk. He's on his way to his daughter's graduation. And the family party SGP gives him all the space in this, of course. So tomorrow you can congratulate him, and hopefully he'll be back. Mr President, I understand that I have to put my question very briefly and sharply. Dutch agriculture and livestock farming are under heavy pressure. Farmers in the Netherlands must in any case meet all kinds of standards, such as those relating to plant protection, animal welfare, the nitrogen problem that has just been mentioned. My colleague has raised the question of whether the competitiveness of the Netherlands will not be seriously under pressure, and I am not just talking about sustainability and so on. But is it not going to be under severe pressure because there are different standards in the Netherlands than in Canada?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u441	When it comes to animal welfare, for example, it often cites the example of longer driving times in which cattle are allowed to sit in a truck. Let me say first of all that I am pleased that we have set strict rules on this in the Netherlands and Europe, and that I hope that they will also reduce driving times in Canada. But we also need to look at this: we are dealing with our welfare standards, and so is Canada. And of course these are also partly based on the reality and manner of a country, its geographical location, and also on the size of a country. Because in the Netherlands, you'll be from north to south in four hours, and that's not in Canada. So these rules really come from a different starting point than where we come from. But let me say that this convention also serves as a basis for discussion and discussion with Canada, including on animal welfare standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u442	To clarify?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u443	I'm going to try, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I understand what the Minister is saying. She focused a little on animal welfare. I had a few other topics. Let me just make it very concrete. Due to the current measures around nitrogen, however you turn or turn, the competitiveness of Dutch farmers will deteriorate considerably. And the big question to the Minister is: does she, together with the SGP, see that this competitive position is under pressure from Canada when we look to the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u444	To clarify: is this about plant protection products or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u445	It concerns a range of measures for plant protection, animal welfare and currently nitrogen. In the Netherlands a lot of standards are imposed on farmers. The question to the Minister is very simple: if you add up all these standards, does she see, like the SGP, that the competitiveness of the Dutch farmer is seriously deteriorating compared to agricultural and livestock farms in Canada, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u446	The Dutch farmers are known for their innovative potential. They are farmers in a very innovative way. You cannot say straight away: we suffer a competitive disadvantage because different measures need to be taken in the Netherlands. In my view, it is precisely the intention that we should look at the future, including the measures to tackle nitrogen. We're looking at how we can farm and emit less nitrogen. This does not necessarily have to be a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis Canadian farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u447	To be honest, I am surprised at how the Minister fails to answer this question by Mr Schalk and other colleagues time and time again. Canada has lower standards for production requirements, in this case for animal welfare. Isn't it true that higher standards involve higher costs? So Canadian farmers can produce at a lower cost. This increases competition. I call that unfair competition. You might think it's fair competition. In any case, this competition will be strengthened. That's as ready as a whistle, isn't it? And if that were not the case, why would so many farmers' organisations turn against CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u448	Well, look: as I said earlier in my answer, we are going for the quality of a product. So we produce in a high-quality, sustainable way. If you do it in megastals or not high quality, you don't necessarily have to have a competitive advantage. That simply does not have to be the case, especially when we see that farmers have been subject to strict rules for some time and are still incredibly competitive vis-à-vis Canadian farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u449	It doesn't have to be, but it is, I'll tell the Minister. If the Minister keeps denying that it is, I'll just say it is. But now there is another point that is related to this. It is a fundamental discussion. It is not just about unfair competition for our farmers. Of course, we are also concerned about the lower standards of animal welfare in Canada. You should be able to do something with that. You should be able to say: because we believe that these animal welfare standards are too low in Canada, we are not going to lower or abolish tariffs, but we are going to keep those rates higher in order to encourage Canada to raise animal welfare standards. But under CETA that is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u450	The Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u451	Under CETA, we can discuss animal welfare, animal welfare standards and animal welfare requirements with Canada. You don't have to link that directly to the increase in rates. There are also animal welfare rules in Canada. They may be different from ours, but they're here. In my view, it is precisely the intention, even with a treaty such as CETA, that we should achieve better standards. It's the first step. As I said in my introduction, it is not the case that we are now going to solve all the problems in the world or Canada, not even with regard to animal welfare. It's a step on the basis of which we can proceed with the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u452	I would like to take a look at the competitiveness of the farmers. CETA has been in operation for five years. So far the stricter requirements in the Netherlands have not led to a worse position of Dutch farmers on the Canadian market. But the fear is that we read that everywhere in the newspaper and we hear the farmers also say that with new rules because of nitrogen there will be a loss of competition. Then it is possible that Dutch farmers no longer export but our market is flooded with cheaper Canadian products, because they can be produced with fewer rules and therefore more cheaply. That's the fear. My question to the Minister is whether she can respond to that. Is that fear justified, or does she think it's gonna be okay? I understand that she cannot look at coffee and she cannot look into the future, but I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u453	At present, quotas are very limited for these sensitive sectors. In addition, there are other measures that we can take, which are mentioned in Chapter 3 of the Treaty. These measures are also based on WTO measures, such as anti-dumping measures and safeguard measures. In this respect, therefore, we have more at our disposal. If we see it deteriorate, we can see with the Commission what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u454	Just one more point of clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u455	One point of clarification. That means that if farmers are worried about it, this could be the answer? Should it be going on, then there are a number of measures that we can and will take to maintain the position of the Dutch farmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u456	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u457	The Minister mentioned the word, which is also a key word in this discussion, namely 'quota'. Who's gonna decide the quota? At the beginning of the procedure of the Convention, they were determined but they are not constantly the same. What influence does the Dutch Government, this minister's influence on these quotas have and how can we ensure that the fears of farmers about dumping and so on by extending these quotas are eliminated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u458	I will come back to this question later on to committees, but I can answer it now. That's that we have a joint committee. It is not true that those technical committees which Mr Beuker has already expressed his concern about could simply adjust quotas. The Joint Committee may only do so with the agreement of the Council. This is a substantial change in the treaty. And in that Council, the Netherlands is also a Member State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u459	I understand now that the Minister guarantees that no committees will be set up to give binding opinions on this matter, which we will have to accept in no uncertain terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u460	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u461	It has already been raised by a number of previous speakers. The Dutch farmers meet all the high food, animal safety and animal welfare standards. This will then shift to Canada by means of the CETA Convention. Then all that meat is brought here chilled and so it is transported 6,000 to 7,000 km which costs a lot of fuel oil. Fuel oil used for the ships is very filthy oil and is also an important CO emitter. The meat also needs to be cooled, which also costs a lot of energy. So what the hell are we doing here? I hear the Minister talking all the time about innovation and the VVD Group is always talking about innovation; the Dutch farmers are so innovative. But with this policy, you are simply throwing the Dutch farmers in front of the bus. Then our innovative farmers are also driven away by nitrogen policy and made life impossible. And then we're gonna get hormone meat from Canada that doesn't match our standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u462	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u463	And if we don't want to, we're going to get a claim through the tribunal and we're going to have to pay hundreds of millions of damages. What the hell are we doing? Why do you want to throw the Dutch farmers in front of the bus?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u464	I'm not. I do hear Mr Otten saying a lot of things that are not true. That's not how we import hormone meat from Canada. So that's incorrect. As I have just said, our farmers already comply with a lot of rules. These are very limited quotas from Canada to Europe, including the Netherlands. As I said, last year we didn't import any pigs in the Netherlands. So that's just not the issue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u465	One question, just to clarify. The rest is to wait until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u466	I note that the interests of the Dutch farmer are not in good hands with this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u467	I would suggest that the Minister continue her speech. I think we're at the block of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u468	Mr. Chairman. Several members of your Chamber, including member Karimi, have doubts about CETA's contribution to sustainability and the agreements contained in the agreement. The trade and investment agreement between Canada and the EU is a good example of what sustainability chapters can deliver. For example, Canada ratified the ILO Convention on Collective Labour Negotiation in 2017. In addition, the Parties have extended the scope of their agreements on trade and sustainable development. The Joint Committee adopted two joint recommendations in the field of trade and gender and trade and climate in 2018. Under the sustainability agreements in CETA, Canada and the EU will organise a cleantech meeting this year to explore how CETA can further contribute to the green transition in the EU and Canada. A high level of ambition for sustainability goes hand in hand with good compliance with commitments made. Some of you have asked questions about this too. I would like to emphasise that the sustainability provisions, like the other provisions in CETA, are legally binding on all contracting parties. The EU and Canada are constantly discussing the implementation of these provisions. I would like to emphasise that Canada complies with the commitments made. Like the EU, Canada is a champion of climate policy and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and other multilateral environmental agreements. The EU and Canada are also committed to the effective implementation of fundamental ILO conventions on labour law. Canada, as previously indicated by former Trade Commissioner Hogan, has also ratified two ILO conventions in recent years, one on collective action, as I said, and one on the minimum age for access to employment. Finally, in line with the sustainability agreements, the EU and Canada share best practices in the areas of gender, imvo and climate. Mr Backer of D66 asked whether any abuses of the type that some civil society parties warned about have materialised. Product standards are subject to EU rules in the case of imports to the EU. This applies to food safety but also, for example, to how a device must be plugged in. This is not under discussion in trade agreements, including CETA. That's something that's being monitored. For production standards, i.e. the method of production, each country produces in its own way. It is largely determined by the local context. But it is precisely in a trade agreement, and thus in CETA, that agreements are made on trade and sustainable development. In doing so, the EU and Canada commit themselves to international labour and environmental standards, i.e. to standards that partly determine the method of production. In CETA, the Contracting Parties confirm that they will comply with fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO. They also commit themselves to the effective implementation of multilateral climate and environmental agreements to which they are party, including the Paris Agreement. In addition, CETA confirms the right of governments to regulate. I'll come back to that later. There has been no violation of these agreements. No, the EU and Canada are working hard on this. Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP asked about the environment and animal welfare. I was just talking about that. I am going to speak again about animal welfare, but let me stress it again. There are also social discussions in Canada about improving animal welfare and the environment. Canada follows a different path from the EU in the development of animal welfare and environmental rules. Their regulations are different, but CETA offers a platform to continue working together on animal welfare. I've just said the rest. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked whether not only product requirements, but also production requirements are important. There is also a lot of discussion on this at European level. So we're also looking to the future. The EU has made several proposals for measures in the area of production standards. These EU proposals all follow their own path. For example, it is a proposal for a regulation on deforestation-free products or the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism. In doing so, it is important that the measure contributes to the objective set and that non-discrimination principles are respected in order to avoid unjustified distortion of trade. We are also bound by WTO rules. Differences in regulation of production do not necessarily lead to lower standards or unfair competition, as I have just said. That's what we need to handle case by case. Mr Koole asked about the enforcement of these agreements. Through a dialogue, Contracting Parties monitor compliance with these agreements and identify opportunities and problems in the field of trade and sustainable development. Civil society can contribute to this through so-called national advisory groups. CETA provides for a dispute resolution for alleged breaches of sustainability agreements. This mechanism consists of the possibility of entering into formal consultations which, if the consultations do not lead to a solution, an independent panel of experts may eventually draw up a final report with recommendations. The Contracting Parties are obliged to take all measures necessary to implement this final report of the Expert Panel. The Committee on Trade and Sustainable Development shall monitor its follow-up. The expert panel report shall also be published. Mr Koole also asked about the review of the TSD chapters, the sustainability chapters, in trade agreements and the power of trade partnerships, the Commission's communication containing recommendations to strengthen sustainability agreements. He asked whether I could undertake to urge the Commission to introduce these action points as soon as possible. The cabinet welcomes the Commission's communication and supports the efforts to contribute to sustainable development through trade policy. Indeed, some of the Action Lines aim at improving compliance and monitoring of sustainability agreements and therefore apply to existing trade agreements such as CETA. These Action Lines do not require treaty changes. The Cabinet may urge the Commission to follow up on the action lines for the implementation and monitoring of sustainability agreements as soon as possible. After the summer recess, the Chamber will be informed, as we always do, by means of a BNC-fiche about the government's juice interpretation of the communication. Mrs Prast asked whether we could not negotiate after the ratification of CETA, i.e. with the improvements to the complaints mechanism. She asked if I agree with her that these improvements cannot remove the asymmetry between investor protection and other stakeholders. Commissioner Dombrovskis has indeed promised a number of improvements to the Complaints Mechanism Directive. These were introduced by the European Commission on 22 June. It is not necessary to introduce these improvements to the complaint mechanism in order to renegotiate CETA including ICS, because the complaint mechanism on the EU side, where alleged lack of compliance with existing trade agreements can be identified, is already operational and applies to all conventions. The comparison between investment protection and access for trade unions, NGOs and citizens to enforce sustainability agreements is not going to work. But I'll be on ICS later. Then there is Mrs Oomen's question as to whether I would like to monitor and undertake that Canada's and the Commission's promise to include new points in the TSD Review in CETA will be fulfilled in its review. Yes, the Netherlands can use within the Council to swiftly implement the action lines set out in the Commission's Communication on improved compliance and monitoring of existing agreements in trade agreements such as CETA. The Council has yet to reach an opinion on policies that require impact in treaty agreements. At the cabinet position we come back to a BNC chip, as I just said. So we'll have that discussion a little later. But at least we have now strongly insisted on the complaints mechanism. I will come back to that later when it comes to the mechanism. I am not saying too much about this now, but I can imagine that we, as a cabinet, are in favour of it. This was the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u469	Thank you. Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u470	My question concerns the enforceability of the sustainability agreements in the Convention. I'd really like to limit it to CETA. The Minister explained that it goes through dialogue and monitoring. Should an issue arise, there will be a formal consultation and a report of experts. Then what happens to that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u471	Subsequently, the parties to the treaty must join each other to see how this is done and how it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u472	Is that what the Minister calls "enforceable agreements"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u473	They're legally binding. They are legally binding agreements. As far as the enforceability is concerned, you will, of course, sit down with your co-contracting parties. You could, of course, attach sanctions to that, just as the Commission said in its review of the TSD chapters that we should perhaps do so. We'll come back to that later as a cabinet at such a BNC chip. However, the cabinet does of course believe that we must be able to enforce compliance strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u474	But at the moment the Minister can say that, as the situation is now in the case of CETA, there are simply no sanctions. So you're gonna have a conversation, and then you're gonna hope you come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u475	That's right. You're gonna have a conversation right now, and you're hoping you can come out together. As I said, this is, of course, a first step in the sustainability chapters. That is what Mr Koole said in his speech. We are going to see how we are going to implement this further, in particular for future trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u476	I am pleased that the Minister welcomes the new review, that communication from the European Commission, as she said. There's gonna be another BNC chip. She said: I can't say too much about it, but I'm sure the cabinet will respond positively. That's all very beautiful. But perhaps a little more: can the Minister at least promise that in this forthcoming BNC sheet there will be the same points as the cabinet agreement, and on what points will it urge the Commission to implement them directly? Can the Minister promise that that's the right thing to do? So it says not only 'we love it all', but also: we find those parts that are about the sustainability chapters so applicable, and we are really going to urge the Commission to do so. That's what's right in that cabinet juice appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u477	I would like to assure Mr Koole that we will be very specific about this in the BNC-fiche.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u478	Just for the sake of clarity, did I just hear the Minister say that the TDS chapters, the sustainability chapters, also in CETA, which contain only very vague promises to the effect that we commit ourselves to sustainability and so on, are not enforceable and are not enforceable? We were just talking about that; Mr Koole is always talking about that. No sanctions can be imposed in the event of breaches of commitments for sustainability within CETA. What has now been agreed in Brussels and what it has been discussed today is independent of CETA. No iota or tittel will change that; I would have put that in my text. That's correct, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u479	They're legally binding. They are enforceable in so far as the parties are obliged to give follow-up to the statements made by such an expert panel. The discussion on sanctions is for future trade agreements. That enforceability with sanctions shall not apply to this Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u480	I note, as I said earlier, that it is not enforceable. It is legally binding, but it is not legally enforceable. There will be recommendations. They're mandatory, but if nothing happens to them, nothing will happen to them. Then no sanctions can be imposed. So that makes it toothless, a paper tiger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u481	I would also like to ask a question of clarification. In 2016, Canada ratified the Paris Climate Agreement. So the question now is: is CETA necessary to push the Paris climate agreement through to Canada?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u482	Both Canada and the EU have signed, ratified the Climate Agreement. Canada must therefore also implement this. But the Paris Agreement itself does not contain a clause which would force other signatories to implement it. But CETA does contribute to the implementation of the Paris Agreement, as the Paris Agreement is covered by CETA; it is part of CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u483	In conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u484	I understand that, but the climate agreement is independent of CETA. At least this morning I heard Mr Koole mention that CETA was necessary for the climate agreement. But in the end that is not the case, because the climate agreement has already been ratified by Canada. We're assuming they're in front of their signature and that that doesn't require CETA. Moreover, there is nothing enforceable in CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u485	No, the Paris climate agreement does not have its own enforcement mechanism, but through trade agreements we strengthen those agreements, because they are enforceable, even through that panel of experts. Those TSD chapters are also about those treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u486	It is now time to move on to the complaints mechanism. I'll check the clock. I suggest we take care of that block before dinner break and then suspend for an hour. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u487	Mr. Chairman. The grievance mechanism, aka the Single Entry Point. Several members of your Chamber have expressed doubts about the monitoring and enforcement of sustainability agreements in this Convention, particularly in this area, in EU trade agreements. We just talked about that. Important steps have been taken in recent years. The appointment of the Chief Trade Enforcement Officer in 2020 symbolises the increased commitment to the implementation of trade agreements. With the Chief Trade Enforcement Officer, compliance with EU trade agreements has a face, both towards third countries and internally within the EU. Within the European Commission, the appointment has been accompanied by a reorganisation and mobilisation of people and resources. In order to further strengthen the monitoring and enforcement of trade agreements and to give a clear role to European civil society, the European Commission launched on 16 November 2020 a complaint mechanism, i.e. the Single Entry Point, where NGOs, businesses and trade unions may raise alleged lack of compliance with trade agreements with the Commission. It is therefore about agreements on market access and sustainability under all trade agreements that the EU has, not only CETA. Companies that want to address market access problems therefore have exactly the same status and access as NGOs or trade unions that want to address sustainability issues under this mechanism. Your Chamber has played an important role with civil society in establishing and further developing this complaint mechanism. The establishment of the complaint mechanism followed an exchange of views between your BDO committee and the then Commissioner Hogan. Then, on the basis of your input and that of civil society, my predecessors and I asked the Commission to review the directives of the mechanism, and successfully, because the Commission has further clarified what information it needs from complainants to deal with a complaint and what the Commission's handling process looks like. After having had some hesitation and having been urged by your Chamber through me, on the basis of written questions received from your Chamber on Tuesday 7 June, the Commission finally introduced the timetables for dealing with complaints about sustainability agreements on 22 June last. In doing so, the European Commission has honoured an important wish of the Netherlands and, in particular, of your Chamber. In this third round of written questions, your members also asked questions about what the complaints mechanism actually changes to CETA. This question has also been exchanged several times between your members. Let me be clear about this: the substance of the complaint mechanism does not change the CETA Convention. However, it does provide an input for trade unions, NGOs and companies to bring their concerns or complaints about inadequate compliance with trade agreements, including CETA, directly to the Commission. In this way, the complaint mechanism contributes to better monitoring and enforcement of the arrangements in CETA. A frequently mentioned point is the alleged unbalanced approach in trade and investment agreements between international investors on the one hand and trade unions and NGOs on the other. The Cabinet does not share this view. The protection of investment in this area will be further enhanced as additional legal protection for foreign investors who, for example, have to deal with discriminatory regulation without complying with procedures for good governance. These are situations where their cross-border investment is directly at risk. At the same time, this legal protection does not have the scope that is suggested; investment protection controls specific, closely defined situations. I shall come back to the improvements regarding investment protection in CETA. On the other hand, the agreements in trade agreements on both market access and sustainability concern wider agreements between the EU and third countries, with the parties to the agreements, i.e. state actors, in order to address a lack of compliance. Both companies and NGOs can call on their own government to ensure that the other contracting party complies with the agreements. The new complaints mechanism allows companies, trade unions and NGOs to make such a call to the European Commission in a transparent and unambiguous manner. Then Mr Koole, Mrs Prast and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked if the Single Entry Point changed anything about CETA and nothing about ICS. Indeed, as I said, the complaints mechanism does not change the EU's and Canada's commitments in CETA. That was not the intention of setting up the complaints mechanism. In fact, it applies to all trade agreements. The complaint mechanism thus provides an entrance to all trade agreements for companies, trade unions and NGOs to highlight their concerns or complaints about compliance with the agreements made in EU trade agreements including CETA. It is then up to the Commission to follow up an alleged breach of agreements and to contribute to better monitoring and enforcement of the agreements in CETA. Mrs Prast asked about the asymmetry between the protection of investors and that of other stakeholders. As I said earlier, I will come to that later on, under CETA, the ICS deals with the mutual rights and obligations of investors and governments with an investment and lays down safeguards as we know them in Dutch law. It is therefore a question of protection in specific, closely defined situations. The comparison with broader agreements in trade agreements does not apply. Indeed, the complaint mechanism does not change the agreements in CETA, including the ICS. So I didn't mean to. As has been said, it is up to the Commission to follow up the alleged breach of agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u488	Mr Otten is already eager to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u489	The reason I was eager was because I heard the Minister say very clearly: the complaint mechanism does not change the CETA Convention at all. That is exactly what I said to Mr Koole, who is so pleased with his dead sparrow of the complaints mechanism. That is the reason for him to vote in favour. I have just heard the Minister say: the complaint mechanism does not change the CETA Convention in any way. That's what I hear you say, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u490	You can well hear me say that the complaint mechanism does not change the content of the CETA Convention, but at the entrance it offers to NGOs, businesses and trade unions to express their concerns and to encourage the Commission to initiate proceedings. Actually, you start a conversation with your treaty party first, but then you can end up in a procedure and a panel of experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u491	I thank the Minister for this clarification. This means that you can complain to the European Commission if you disagree with something, but this does not change the CETA Convention. That's exactly what we said. I note that the Labour Party has been pleased with a fairly dead sparrow, at least unconscious. That's what we'll find out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u492	I'll take a look around. I don't see anyone... Yes, Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u493	Mr President, I would like to say a few more words. Could the Minister explain again why this change in the complaint mechanism is so important? I think that is a good thing, because it is clearly not clear to everyone and is not understood by everyone immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u494	Thank you for this question, Mrs Oomen. The bottom line is that companies in particular initially had access to that complaint mechanism. This was about complaints about the market access that was regulated in CETA. NGOs and trade unions couldn't use that grievance mechanism, so they were a little empty-handed. It is precisely through the broadening of the complaint mechanism that NGOs and trade unions now have access to the complaint mechanism and can encourage the European Commission to go further and address their opposite party, their party to the treaty, whether it is about access or sustainability agreements. Thanks to your Chamber, therefore, the Commission has also linked timelines to this. Within a given time limit, an NGO or a complainant must therefore hear whether the complaint is provided with all the necessary information, whether the complaint will be brought forward, or whether further information is needed, etc. In this way they also have more certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u495	Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting until 7.05 p.m. before dinner break. See you then!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u496	I would ask Members to take their seats and welcome everyone back. The next item is the continuation of the debate on CETA and the Strategic Partnership Agreement. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I think we were ready to deal with the issue of investment protection. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Investment protection. The most widely spoken and written about the Investment Court System may have been related to CETA. I would first like to take a step back and talk about the purpose of investment treaties. An investment treaty is first and foremost an instrument that promotes private investment in countries with a less robust governance system: private, foreign investment that is an important tool for achieving the SDGs. This is often about large and long-term investment in the infrastructure of these countries. If investors in these countries are not given independent protection against unlawful government action, the risk and thus the price increase. The construction of necessary infrastructure will then be more expensive or will not be achieved. Now a fair question is why we need an Investment Court System in the agreement with Canada, as suggested by, among other things, Mr Karimi. This is a treaty with a country that has a highly developed and independent legal system, as pointed out by my predecessors. For the Netherlands this was not necessarily necessary either. However, in the EU we are not only in charge. However, we have taken the opportunity to radically reform the old Investor-State Dispute Settlement system. Letterbox companies are excluded and transparency becomes the standard and promotes independent and impartial dispute resolution. In the areas where this is necessary, ICS offers public-law transparency and independence in a hitherto private and protected legal process. Today, several speakers pointed out that the ICS did not take any important steps towards ISDS. I find it difficult to say how the reforms I have just explained should then be qualified. Because with the ICS, we are even setting a standard that will have an impact far beyond this treaty and is the blueprint for a future multilateral investment court. Then over the right to regulate, also something often called in one breath with investment protection. That is the right to regulate legislation. I would like to make it very clear here that the freedom for governments, for the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities to regulate is guaranteed in the general interest. ICS is not a vehicle for multinationals to stop climate legislation, just to take away a concern that we have heard before today. The parties reaffirmed in an interpretative statement that governments retain the right to adjust their regulations, even if this may have negative consequences for investors. The Declaration states that the Convention does not affect the ability of the Parties to achieve legitimate public policy objectives, such as the protection and promotion of public health, social services, public education, safety and the environment. As the Council of State concludes in its opinion, the interpretative statement in this way does not question that CETA does not prejudice all the legitimate objectives of public policy. The Council of State has also clearly concluded that the agreements on investment protection in the CETA Treaty itself are in conformity with the Dutch Constitution. CETA also does not create new material rights for investors. Indeed, the rules on investment protection under CETA do not differ from the functioning of the general principles of good governance under Dutch administrative law. If a co-government adheres to these rules for government transactions laid down in Dutch law, it does not have to worry about a successful claim under CETA. Even without CETA, foreign investors can rely on the general principles of good governance against the Dutch government. Scientific research, among others by Leiden University and the University of Halle, has also shown that there is no regulatory chill in the Netherlands for fear of claims from investment treaties, which several of your members spoke about today. If I turn all this off against CETA, which is creating a higher entry threshold for claims, I cannot reconcile this with the ghost stories about North American megaclaims. This was in any case also the response to a question by Mr Van Apeldoorn on regulatory chill. In addition, Mr Otten asked why ICS is needed if it is not going to be used by everyone. Firstly, it is not the government's belief that the ICS will never be used. An investor must have access to justice if he considers that he or she has infringed his or her rights. However, the cabinet believes that if the government adheres to the principles of good governance in government action, we need not be afraid that any claim will be successful. In promoting cross-border investment, it is important to ensure the legal protection of cross-border investments. In addition, this is an important start-up for a joint EU-Canada commitment to multilateral reform of investment protection dispute resolution mechanisms. Mr Van Rooijen asked whether there was indeed no transfer of sovereignty at the ICS. CETA and its ICS are not at the expense of Dutch sovereignty. There is an important distinction between ICS and the national legal system, with these two forms of dispute resolution also not mutually exclusive, as the ICS confines itself to the interpretation and application of CETA. The ICS Court should also not judge the interpretation of laws and regulations of the Netherlands and the EU on the basis of CETA. In doing so, the ICS Court can only award financial compensation and/or order the restitution of property. In the latter case, the defendant State may decide to pay financial compensation instead. The ruling does not affect national laws and regulations and therefore does not affect Dutch sovereignty. Mr Van Rooijen also asked whether a Dutch company could choose between the public court in an EU Member State and the ICS under the Trade Treaty. CETA looks, on the one hand, at EU investment in Canada and, on the other hand, at Canadian investment in the EU. A Dutch company with investments in Canada qualifying under CETA has the possibility to bring a case against the Canadian government. This can be done by both the ICS and the national courts in Canada. So the company can choose. However, in order to prevent forum shopping, under the ICS it is not possible to bring a case in both courts at the same time. Mrs Huizinga asked whether the ICS could grant a claim and whether it would affect the rules and laws that a national government is issuing. Unlike the national court, which in exceptional cases may decide to terminate a rule, the court may, if it grants a claim to the investor, only grant financial compensation and/or order the restitution of property. In the latter case, the judgment provides that the defendant may, instead, pay financial compensation in accordance with the market value prior to the expropriation. The financial compensation shall not exceed the damage suffered. The court cannot therefore award punitive damages and the judgment does not affect national laws and regulations. Mrs Prast asked if we could rule out companies going to the ICS because of Dutch laws and regulations. Under the investment protection rules in CETA, Canadian investors can go to the ICS if they believe that they are disadvantaged by Dutch government trading. The same possibility also exists under Dutch and European law and therefore no new material rights are created with the ICS. Mr Backer asked me if we could come to a multilateral permanent court step by step through the ICS. The ICS is an important step towards the achievement of a multilateral permanent court. The permanent nature and characteristics of the ICS serve as a model for the eventual establishment of a multilateral permanent court. If the ICS were not to be established now, there is very little chance that a multilateral permanent court will be established. If ICS gets there, we'll be one step closer. For this reason, the government also attaches great importance to the ICS. Then Mrs Prast asked how financial supervisors look at CETA and ICS, and what effects CETA and ICS can have on the financial sector, for example in the area of a takeover requiring a licence from DNB. When agreements are concluded, there is always wide consultation within and outside the government. In CETA, agreements have been made on financial services in a separate chapter. This concerns, for example, agreements that parties do not take discriminatory measures with regard to financial institutions and transparent regulation. In general, financial institutions must comply with applicable laws and regulations at all times. CETA shall be without prejudice to this. Unless there is a breach of the investment protection agreements laid down in CETA, the mere fact that a licence is not obtained cannot lead to a successful claim to the ICS. Then Mrs Prast also asked whether Canadian financial investors would file claims if financial supervisory measures were introduced that would affect their return. If a Canadian investor in a financial sector considers that he or she has been unlawfully treated in respect of his or her investment in the EU on the basis of financial supervisory measures, he or she may refer an alleged breach of CETA to the ICS Court. Again, CETA reaffirms and explicates the right of governments to adopt laws and regulations in order to achieve legitimate policy objectives. The mere fact that a government adopts measures that have a negative impact on an investment or intervention in an investor's profit expectations is not in itself a breach of the obligations under the Treaty. In addition, CETA explicitly states that in the case of prudential measures aimed at restructuring public debt, no claim can be made to the ICS if the restructuring is a negotiated restructuring or is imminent at the time of the submission of the claim. The core is always: only if there is an investment across the border and if the Dutch government is guilty of unfair action as described in the treaty can there be a successful claim. Mrs Huizinga mentioned that the treaty leaves room for the adoption of laws that harm investors but serve the public interest. She asked where the final consideration lies whether a law serves the public interest. Whether or not a measure serves the public interest is ultimately subject to judicial review. It follows from the Court's opinion that, subject to the provisions of CETA, the judge will review whether measures adopted in a democratic manner to protect legitimate policy objectives of public interest. In doing so, the provision in CETA is of importance which guarantees the right of public authorities to adopt laws and regulations to achieve legitimate policy objectives such as the protection of public health, safety, the environment, public morality, social protection or consumer protection or the promotion and protection of cultural diversity. It clarifies that the fact that a government adopts measures that have a negative impact on an investment or interfere with an investor's expectations does not in itself constitute a breach of the CETA obligations. The discretion of the ICS Court does not go so far as to prejudice democratically established measures to protect public interests. Ms Prast asked if a Canadian investor on a local housing market in the Netherlands could go to the ICS after new restrictions by a local government and file a claim. The court is, of course, free to proceed if it considers that it has been dealt with unlawfully. That is at the basis of our rule of law. The judge or the arbitration tribunal will give an opinion on this matter. Therefore, Canadian investors in the local housing market in the Netherlands are free to submit a claim to the ICS Court regarding an alleged breach of the CETA Convention. This is not excluded under CETA. However, CETA reaffirms and clarifies the right of governments to adopt laws and regulations in order to achieve legitimate and policy objectives. The mere fact that a government, whether local or national, adopts measures that have a negative impact on an investment or interfere with the profit expectations, in itself, as I said, does not constitute a breach of the obligations under the Treaty. So it must be a violation of the basic guarantees contained in the CETA text itself. However, I would like to reiterate that the rules on investment protection under CETA do not differ from the functioning of the general principles of good governance under Dutch administrative law. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether there is a court for workers and disadvantaged citizens. The ICS under CETA deals with the mutual rights and obligations of investors and governments regarding an investment and lays down safeguards as we know them in Dutch law. This is a legal process in the case of a government that does not comply with the basic principles of good governance. As usual in investment agreements, CETA does not include the possibility for third parties themselves to initiate proceedings against an investor. If these parties consider that they are disadvantaged in their rights, the national legal process is open under national law, in which the safeguards, such as international conventions, such as labour law, have been implemented. The CETA Convention allows third parties to join in proceedings between an investor and a State, as amicus curiae. Citizens, trade unions and NGOs who have an interest in a procedure can thus express their views and interests in the dispute directly to the Tribunal. Trade union rights are guaranteed multilaterally by conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO. The ratification and implementation of these ILO conventions by governments is monitored by various committees, including trade unions. In trade agreements such as CETA, the EU agrees with third countries to ratify and implement ILO conventions, including trade union rights, in a legally binding and enforceable manner. Under the complaint mechanism, which we have already discussed this evening, the Single Entry Point, NGOs, trade unions, citizens and businesses can raise alleged lack of compliance with trade agreements with the Commission. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked about the evaluation of the functioning of the ICS in the CETA Convention, no later than five years after its entry into force; something the Lower House also asked for. The ICS is excluded from the provisional application of the Convention and will therefore not enter into force until it has been ratified, when CETA will also enter into force. Before CETA enters into force, it must be ratified by all Member States, the EU and Canada. Only five years later will the motion be able to be carried out. Mr Backer asked whether it was true that Canada is proposing five arbitrators for the ICS and the EU as well. A total of 15 Judges shall be appointed for the composition of the court. Five judges are nationals of Canada, five are nationals of an EU Member State and five are nationals of third countries. Three judges will sit per case: one from Canada, one from the EU and one from a third country. The arbitrator from the third country shall be chairman. Mr Backer also asked whether it was true that the Netherlands has 90 bilateral agreements with arbitration. There are currently 66 bilateral investment agreements with arbitration in force. The number has decreased, because there were investment protection agreements between Member States which no longer apply. Mr Koole asked if the cabinet was prepared to support Germany's initiatives to limit the improper use of investment protection by companies. Like Germany, the Netherlands is in favour of combating the misuse of investment protection. A concrete example of this in CETA is the exclusion of letterbox companies. The Netherlands will in principle welcome new initiatives by Germany or other treaty countries to combat improper use, but of course the Netherlands will assess this independently per proposed initiative. Then Mr Beuker asked how desirable a twenty-year sunset clause would be in Article 30 (2). Such a sunset clause is common in investment agreements, because it concerns large and long-term investments, for example in infrastructure. Although twenty years seem to be long, such a period is desirable. It is also included in Article 30 (9) (2) but that aside. Investment protection is aimed at all sectors of our economy, and it is precisely this type of private sector investment that is needed for a transition to a sustainable economy. Finally, the protection afforded by the sunset clause under CETA can only be invoked through investments made for the eventual termination of the agreement. Then Mr Van Ballekom asked whether it was true that hardly any claims were made against the Netherlands. Under the Energy Charter, two claims were filed against the Netherlands; by Uniper and by RWE. Furthermore, there are currently no claims against the Netherlands. Ms Karimi asked if the Netherlands was willing to commit itself to reforming the Energy Charter. In recent years, the Netherlands has been committed to modernising the ECT at EU level. Those modernisation negotiations were concluded on 24 June. The Netherlands and the other Member States are currently analysing that outcome and will take a position in the coming period. Moreover, CETA and the ECT are other treaties, because CETA is a comprehensive trade agreement and ECT is specifically focused on the energy sector and also contains ISDS-old style. Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP stated that CETA would be a fossil treaty and asked if it was of this time. How does it relate to the climate objectives of this cabinet? CETA is a trade agreement and investment protection is an essential part of this. The cabinet is not in favour of excluding investors in certain sectors, such as energy, from protection. In these cases, too, the principles of good governance apply and the public authorities should not discriminate or otherwise treat companies unlawfully. CETA offers the basic conditions for this, but this does not affect the commitment of the Netherlands and the EU towards the energy transition and the climate goals set by the Dutch government. In the coalition agreement, we have also taken a broader view of the fact that we are engaged in greening our trade instruments, for example by promoting sustainable trade missions. We are also working on greening export credit insurance. So much for the ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u498	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u499	I found it striking that the Minister said, like her predecessor Ploumen: we didn't have to do it, that ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u500	Sorry, I need you to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u501	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The Minister said we didn't need ICS, but it's in there anyway. Now she also says that it is a model for a multilateral court within the United Nations; I have talked about this before. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says that it is a model for a multilateral court and that it should look like ICS, so without access from parties other than large companies, such as NGOs and other civil society organisations, trade unions and so on? That is a very big difference between ICS and what my group, for example, would have in mind. Added to this a question about the right to regulate. It may be that the Minister will return to that in another cup. I have talked not only about the regulatory chill, but also about the effect, the lock-in effect, of liberalisation: that once you have liberalised you cannot reverse that. I believe that this is something which in practice limits the right to regulate, but it may be that the Minister says that this is covered by another block, so that it is not ICS. But then I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u502	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u503	Okay, you'll get back to that. Then, first of all, this first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u504	Yes. Indeed, such a multilateral court would include, for us, a permanent court, for example, some of those modernisations that have been made with ICS. However, the ICS is, of course, primarily intended to protect investments made by certain companies. And you're talking about big companies. It's about big companies, but it's about SMEs; so it's wider than that. But it is true that we do not see a direct role for trade unions or NGOs there, because it is therefore about the effective protection of investments, and not about, for example, compliance with sustainability agreements in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u505	Thank you for the clarification. So the government says there should not be a court to which other parties should have access; it should be a court and should remain with only exclusive access for companies. The Minister says: SMEs too. I say again: not the baker around the corner; that really is a myth. And then the Minister also says: ICS, Chapter 8 of CETA, does not actually increase the possibilities that already exist, materially. I think I heard the Minister say that. But that's just not right, is it? Because it is an additional opportunity given to multinationals, which they do not now have. That possibility doesn't exist right now. If we do not vote in favour of the CETA Convention tomorrow by a majority of my group, and then other countries too, because there are still 12 other countries to ratify, let me remind you that, in this case, there is that possibility for Canadian multinationals, which they did not have before, to circumvent national law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u506	Well, it's about not creating new material rights for companies, such as protection from inappropriate governance. So we're talking about the principle of non-discrimination, not imposing pressure from a government on an investor. So inappropriate governance: those safeguards are now protected by ICS or CETA, and your right to do so can also be obtained from national courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u507	Mr. Chairman. Two points. One is about ICS. The Minister said that the amici curiae, the friends of the court, could join a party in the conflict. And it is somewhat in line with Mr Van Apeldoorn's question, but my question to the Minister is: is it possible at all to add other parties to the conflict, i.e. the investor and the state in question, to the dispute at the same level as the party to the conflict? Is that possible, technically? And the second question is actually about that initiative that I asked for: is the government prepared to support any German initiatives dealing with combating misuse? The government then says: yes, we are in principle in favour of this. But, of course, that makes sense; who is for improper use? No one's for improper use. No, of course it is a question of whether the government is prepared to support an initiative by Germany concerning a binding interpretation within the Joint Committee on the basis of the CETA Treaty rules, which aims to prevent the improper use of investment protection. That is a very specific question. It is therefore a binding interpretation of the improper use of investment protection. Or, if that initiative comes from Germany, and I understand that Germany is going to come with it, the government will actively support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u508	In answer to the first question: an NGO cannot become a party to a dispute. It will therefore be two parties, one investor and one state. An NGO can give an opinion, but cannot act as an independent party in such a procedure. Second. As I said, we are in favour of this, but I would like to see Germany's proposal in concrete terms. On that basis, I would like to take a position in the cabinet. But in principle we are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u509	I have asked the Minister three or more questions which are actually multi-choice questions. The possible answers are yes, no or no. I didn't hear those answers. So I would like to repeat these questions and then I would like to hear: yes, no or no. Is it true that if another EU country violates company rights, a Canadian investor can go to the ICS and a Dutch investor can't? Does the Minister know how the financial supervisors look at CETA, and in particular the ICS? Has she, or has her predecessors, DNB and the AFM consulted on the ICS? Can a Canadian bank that wants to take over a Dutch large bank or small bank and that does not get a permit go to the ICS and get compensation for the profits it won't make because it doesn't get a permit? Again as an answer: yes, no or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u510	It is striking that "no opinion" is not an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u511	The answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second and third questions is: don't know. I'd like to get back to you on that. We have spoken with DNB, but I do not have his views on the treaty here, so the answer to that question is: don't know. The answer to the fourth question is: yes, if no authorisation is granted, they can go to court. But that doesn't mean that that claim is being honored. This can be done on the basis of the answer to the question whether the complaint is being complied with due to inappropriate administration and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u512	I even got more than yes, no or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u513	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u514	First, a practical question to the Minister. I have a question about ICS in relation to the Constitution. Is that gonna happen later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u515	Yeah, you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u516	Thank you. Then we can go to the penultimate block, the governance. I was a little smoother in this round, because it was a very broad subject. That's why I've left a little more room on your advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u517	Then I come to the various committees and the governance of CETA. Several speakers have expressed their concerns about this today, including the democratic nature of these committees. I would like to make it clear immediately: the powers of these committees are limited. They focus in particular on what is necessary for the proper implementation of the Convention. When decisions are taken by these committees, a decision-making procedure always applies on the European side. That's what we exchanged earlier tonight. It means that the Council decides on this and that the Netherlands as a member of the Council has a vote. The decisions of the Council shall be published in the Official Journal of the EU, which shall be accessible to all on-line. The Committees cannot therefore make any changes to the Convention itself. Only in some cases, when it comes to technical, implementing aspects, i.e. not quotas, can certain protocols and annexes to CETA be adapted. For example, we are talking about deleting or adding a geographical indication that has become obsolete. This is also the case with other trade agreements, for example with South Korea or Japan. It confers similar powers on the executive committees. This will enable the parties to keep up with the Convention and respond to new developments. Mr Backer asked whether there were reports of the Joint Committee established by the Convention and whether fundamental changes could be made to the Convention itself. Well, you can't. There are reports from the Joint Committee. All the agendas and reports of the meetings of the Joint Committee and the specialised committees are published on the European Commission's website and are therefore accessible to all. The Joint Committee may therefore decide to make technical amendments to the Protocols and a number of annexes to the Agreement. As regards amendments to the CETA Convention itself, once it has entered into force, they may be in accordance with the usual Treaty amendment procedures in accordance with Article 30.2 of the Convention. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the responsibility of committees and whether they were implementing legislative powers, with no democratic control. The powers of these committees are really very limited and cannot make any changes to the main text of the Convention, only on technical and implementing aspects. Prior to decision-making, the Council, acting on a proposal from the European Commission, shall adopt the position to be taken on behalf of the Union. Only on this basis can anything be agreed in the Committee on behalf of the EU. All European Member States are represented in the Council, including the Netherlands. That is why we also have a say in the decision-making process. It is therefore published in the Official Journal and all reports of the Joint Committee are public. Mr Van Dijk asked about democratic control and transparency of treaty committees more generally. The Netherlands has also often put pressure on it. In recent years, the European Commission has expanded the reporting of the committees under trade agreements. I would like to turn to the question of the Constitution and to what extent this Treaty should be adopted by two-thirds majority, also in relation to the motion tabled on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u518	I'll take a look around first. Mr Van Apeldoorn and then Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u519	The Minister says that the committees and those working groups have powers but that they concern the implementation of the Convention and that all of this is quite normal. However, as the Minister has just made clear, it is ultimately a question of amending the Convention, in the sense that these committees amend individual protocols and annexes or add protocols and annexes to them. My question is simple. When it comes to these changes, the Minister calls them technical, but perhaps they are not at all technical in the opinion of my group, for example,...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u520	The amendments go through the technical committees and they are actually under the Joint Committee. As far as the Joint Committee is concerned, a Council position must first be adopted. So the Netherlands also has a say in this committee. So also Member States are simply involved in the Council's position by European Member States and thus within the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u521	My question was not about the involvement of Member States, which is clear because they are also represented on those committees. My question was about the involvement of parliaments. I would like to add another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u522	That's not really the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u523	I'm going to be very brief. The Minister mentioned technical committees, but it is well known that in one of these first committees Canada has called into question the precautionary principle. That may not have happened after that, but Canada has directed it. Your predecessor said that this was not really the intention. But it did happen. Then my simple question to the Minister is: is this not something technical but something fundamental?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u524	I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that this is indeed fundamental. It is therefore also very good that no further implementation has been carried out, because it is not appropriate at that level in such a committee. Then an answer to his previous question on the involvement of parliaments. The cabinet, of course, also talks to the Dutch Parliament about taking positions. We don't do that on very small technical things, but on bigger things. That's what we're talking about with the Rooms. The European Parliament is also informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u525	One of the aims of the Convention is to harmonise standards between Canada and the European Union. What is the role of these joint committees and the technical committees in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u526	Standards are not adapted by technical committees without the intervention of the Council and thus by Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u527	It's not clear to me yet. Can you make that more precise? How does a trial like this work? As I understand it so far, these technical committees are going to deliver an opinion without any suggestion from Member States. Because they're hired to do that. In my contribution, I have expressed my concerns about this, because who will then have an influence on those opinions? Our concern is that companies will have a great deal of influence on the opinions of those technical committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u528	Product standards within the EU simply go through the regular EU procedures. So that's unrelated to CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u529	That wasn't my question either. My question is this. One of the aims is to harmonise standards between the EU and Canada. That's right, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u530	Product standards? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u531	Yeah, because otherwise it just...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u532	We're talking to Canada, but we're not gonna change it on the basis of some technical committees. We'll look into it. Suppose someone has a certain standard for certain products. An SME that produces it here does not need to do that test or test here and in Canada. But adjusting our product standards is done through regular EU processes. So it is not the case that technical committees influence our standards. They can only talk about it: does that match our standard, and can we say that they are so equal that that test or test should not be done again in Canada?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u533	Let's just say that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u534	No, Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u535	Mr President, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u536	You can ask one more question for clarification, but you can also come back to it in the second term. The Minister can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u537	The Minister states that the Joint Committee may amend protocols and annexes. If they agree, proposals will go to the Council. But the Council is a black box for us, because what is being discussed there and how it is being voted is not being brought out. In the end, only a position or a result comes out. That's always after. The Minister himself states that the European Parliament is being informed. Yeah, after. Parliaments are also informed afterwards, so we have no influence on that and no control whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u538	It is true that every Council decision is published after the position is taken. But on small technical matters, the Council decides together. Those are the 27 ministers on certain issues. Treaty changes cannot happen without a parliament having something to say about them. That is simply the procedure for amending the Treaties, as I said earlier. If, for example, we take certain measures in the area of trade, I have discussions with the Chamber. It is not, therefore, the case that we do not have any discussion with Parliament, especially when it comes to important measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u539	A question for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u540	I can therefore conclude that, with regard to the protocols and the annexes, the parliaments have no influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u541	When it comes to the very technical impact of the implementation of the Convention, you have already agreed in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u542	I'll give the minister a hand. Article 26.3 of the CETA Convention, on decision-making: "In order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement, the CETA Joint Committee shall be empowered to take decisions on all matters identified in the Agreement. The decisions of the CETA Joint Committee shall be binding on the Parties." Well, that seems pretty obvious. As far as Article 26.3 is concerned, the European Parliament or the First or Second Chamber... that Joint Committee simply decides what happens. This is also the Dutch translation of CETA, but there is not a word of French. That seems very clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u543	As far as the technical elaboration of the Convention is concerned, the Joint Committee can do so. The Council will then have to agree to that. Those are the Member States. It is true that I can, of course, be held accountable in Parliament if the Council has taken a decision which the Chamber does not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u544	Mr Otten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u545	Perhaps the Minister could come back to the question of how, in her view, the Council could still influence it. That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u546	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u547	We now have to deal with the final problem: the constitutional aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u548	In any event, Mr Van Apeldoorn's question was how the ICS relates to Article 112 of the Constitution. That article of the Constitution looks at the internal competence regime within the national legal sphere. This provides a constitutional guarantee that there is always a form for the trial of disputes relating to private law matters and claims. This article of the Constitution does not therefore refer to the case law of an international court. The possibility for individuals or legal persons to have recourse to dispute settlement vis-à-vis the Dutch State under international law is not new. Think of the dozens of bilateral investment protection agreements to which the Netherlands is already a party and which include investor-state dispute resolution, but also, for example, the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, everyone retains the option to opt for the national court instead of the ICS. Unlike the national court, the ICS cannot decide on the legality of a measure, but only to award compensation. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Beucker asked how I judged the claim of several lawyers who said that approval should take place with a two-thirds majority. As explained above in response to questions from your Chamber and the House of Representatives, the Government considers that there is no derogation from the Constitution under this Treaty and therefore no two-thirds majority is required for approval. The House of Representatives voted against a similar amendment. Mr Otten's question on the adoption of this proposal by a two-thirds majority in the Chamber. As I have just said, this Treaty does not derogate from the Constitution and therefore does not require a two-thirds majority. Then Mr Van Dijk asked: does the Minister recognise that there is and continues to be a process and decision that escapes the democratic process and the national legal order? No. In the government's view, there are no processes and decisions that evade a democratic process and the national legal order. In previous replies, the reasons why the ICS and the committees do not affect the democratic process and the national legal order, as I have just said, have already been addressed, because the Treaty provisions of CETA can only be amended by the contracting parties themselves. Those Treaty changes should be subject to approval in accordance with national constitutional procedures. Then the motion under letter M. I'd advise against it. What I have just said is that the government does not believe that there is any departure from the Constitution in this Treaty. In addition, Article 6, second paragraph of the Reichswet, provides that by way of derogation from the Constitution, the draft law for the adoption of a Treaty must reflect the approval being granted in compliance with the provisions of Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution. If your Chamber, unlike the government and the House of Representatives, now believes that the Treaty is different from the Constitution, then it cannot do anything but reject the bill. The draft law does not contain the provision required by law in the event of a derogation from the Constitution. I also have a few other points, but there may still be questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u549	Thank you. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u550	The fact remains, of course, that a company has now been given a choice between the national legal system and the ICS. The Minister says: because there is a choice, there is no derogation from the Constitution. But I do not agree with the Minister because the following is the case. At the time when a company goes to the ICS and is going to file a claim with the Dutch State, the Dutch State is forced to participate in acts against its own Constitution. A situation is therefore certainly being created in which the State is forced to act against the Constitution. So the State can't go any further, because the other way around it can't. The ICS is only open to one-way traffic. The State can't do it. That is also a very strange way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u551	Look, Article 1 in the Constitution... I assume that Mrs Faber is talking about this, about the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u552	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u553	If I understand the question correctly, the point is that the situation of EU investors in the EU is not comparable to the situation of Canadian investors in the EU. They're foreign investors. The ICS is therefore not contrary to the principle of equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u554	No, I am referring to the transfer of powers from national courts to the ICS. That is contrary to the Constitution. But the Minister has previously indicated that you can choose between the ICS or the national court. But the fact remains that a situation is created which forces the State to act contrary to its own Constitution if a claim is filed with the Dutch State. A situation is thus being created which is contrary to the Constitution, as the powers of the national courts are transferred to ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u555	As far as I am concerned, these powers are not transferred to ICS. They will continue to exist before the Dutch judge. There's a choice. The ICS has nothing to do with that, because these powers remain before the national courts. Moreover, the Council of State has also taken this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u556	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u557	The Minister must admit that a parallel course of justice is being rigged, and that parallel course of justice is contrary to the Constitution. Surely the Minister can't deny that that's happening. As I said before, a company can opt for the ICS, creating a situation in which it is acting against our own Constitution. That choice remains, but there is a parallel legal system. A parallel legal system does not correspond to our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u558	It is true that there is a parallel course of justice, but I do not agree with you that this is not in line with the Constitution. The powers you say will be transferred will not be transferred. You can also as a company... Suppose you win a tender and you go to arbitration for construction. In addition to national courts, there are other legal proceedings that we have in our national system. As far as I am concerned, this does not affect Article 112 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u559	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u560	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u561	Yes, I've already given you the floor four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u562	Thank you so much for your coulance. However, the Minister has to admit that powers are given to the ICS which are also with the Dutch courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u563	The ICS may settle disputes between the State and a foreign investor, as a national court does. It has the same competence in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u564	So it's been given that authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u565	Mr Beuker has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u566	I'm gonna try the other way around. I feel very much for what Mrs Faber says, and I do not understand why the Minister does not simply admit that. Something new is being created, left or right, and it's called the ICS. That supranational arbitration court is given powers. That's something new. The Minister rightly says that there is still a choice for the national legal system, but something new is being created; one could call it a sidetrack. If we agree on this, then you can easily say: by creating that new system, that sidetrack, we need a two-thirds majority, because this affects the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u567	I think we agree that there is a parallel, that there is a choice between the national court and the ICS. What we do not agree on is that it infringes Article 112 of the Constitution. We do not agree with that, because Article 112 of the Constitution refers to the internal competence allocation of the national legal system. The ICS is outside; it's separate from that. We agree that this option exists and that ICS has the power of the Dutch court. ICS may also decide on certain disputes, but that does not conflict with Article 112 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u568	I heard the Minister say twice that there is a parallel legal system. I would ask the Minister to take that term back. It is common that you can do one or the other in a parallel legal system or both side by side. That's not possible. Usually the term "additional legal system" is used instead of "parallel."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u569	Mr Van Apeldoorn. Or does the Minister still want to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u570	Then I didn't put it very well with "parallel." It's either one or the other. If you start a procedure on one thing, that rules out a procedure on another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u571	I can only say that I think the Minister has just said so. If you create a separate legal process alongside the existing national legal system, that is a parallel legal system. If you say that companies can also go to national courts, that is true, but there is a parallel legal system, a separate court for multinationals, where they can also go. They will, because it is much easier for them and makes the road much shorter to demanding and possibly getting awarded very high damages claims. Mr Koole is talking about his own words, but I think the Minister has just said it quite correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u572	To conclude this point, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u573	When I say with'supplementary' that it is a matter of one or the other, that a choice can be made and that after you have brought a case before the court you cannot then also initiate proceedings with the ICS, I add: if the interpretation of 'parallel' does indeed mean a double or a cumulative in the legal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u574	I think I have missed an answer on the treaty recently concluded between the EU and New Zealand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u575	I'll get to that, on the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u576	Ah, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u577	First Mr Schalk, then Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u578	Still, back to that "supplementary" or that "parallel." Because the final basic question was whether this is different from the Constitution. Let me use it very carefully: does the Minister at least think that this is at least the case with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u579	No. I have already said in my reply that the government considers that this treaty does not involve any departure from the Constitution and therefore does not require a two-thirds majority, and that it does not, therefore, squander.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u580	I hear the Minister say that the government does not think it is different and in her last remark she even says that it is not sanding. Doesn't it have anything to do with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u581	The Constitution regulates the internal division of competence of a national legal system. So it has to do with the fact that the ICS is complementary to the national legal system. So it has to do with Article 112, because it regulates the distribution of national competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u582	I understand that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u583	Finally!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u584	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that our Constitution stipulates that claims against the State must be settled through our national legal system. So once that is no longer the case, because you have an additional system, is it not simply the case that this affects the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u585	By "touching the Constitution" it seems as if the Constitution is being infringed. I do not think that is the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u586	The reason why we are dealing with this treaty is, of course, why we have often been discussing it. The point is that if we vote tomorrow and there is an unexpected majority in favour of the Treaty, we agree to the transfer of a piece of power, which is part of our national legal system, to an international legal system. If we have organised it in our Constitution as we have organized it there, and we agree that a parallel, complementary system is going to rule on cases that are actually national courts, then our Constitution is being violated. Does the Minister agree with me? Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u587	I do not agree with Mrs Karimi because the Constitution concerns the national legal system. The ICS is part of the international legal system based on the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u588	I'll try again. Why did the Court say that this piece of the Treaty... The commercial part is actually a European competence, but this part is national competence. What is the Minister's interpretation of why this ruling was made by the Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u589	In conclusion, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u590	Because it concerns an additional course of justice next to the court before the national court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u591	Thank you, that's right. That is where a piece of competence is now being transferred, for which national parliaments and governments are responsible, to an international legal system. That is exactly where it actually comes into conflict with the Constitution. We have asked written questions about it. I have to say that the Minister cannot properly justify why this has nothing to do with the Constitution. Because we are here all day because it has to do with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u592	One more time for the Minister and then for Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u593	I stick to my answer and also to the answers that were already addressed in the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u594	I have the feeling that it will be discussed again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u595	Apparently, the Minister has some difficulty understanding the point made by the previous speaker. The Constitution says "jurisdiction belongs to the judiciary," just as we have one head of state, one police, a public prosecutor, you name it. Surely it can't be that we're introducing a new police force and we're getting another head of state? That is the basis laid down in the Constitution, isn't it? Then you cannot just say: we can create such a private channel next to it, regardless of our Constitution? That does not seem to me to be a sustainable position. That is why I think it is very worrying that the parallel channel created by this treaty is also accessible exclusively to multinationals and not even to all Dutch people. That is another reason why I would like to say to the Minister that I am not going to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u596	One more time, the Minister. Then we close this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u597	Mr Otten is once again saying that it would only be accessible to multinationals. I also said just now that this is not the case, that it is also the case for SMEs. I have also said that the national court can also simply be sued, that proceedings can be brought there and that the ICS is complementary to national law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u598	Thank you. We now have the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u599	Well, I had...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u600	You had another cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u601	Yeah, about New Zealand, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u602	So that's really the last block. Let's finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u603	Yes. Mrs Prast asked about the difference between the ratification and implementation of CETA and the trade agreement between the EU and New Zealand. Is there any type of investor who would like to join the ICS alone? What are the characteristics of this investor? On 30 June, the EU and New Zealand announced a trade agreement. This is an agreement on trade agreements. Under the EU-New Zealand Trade Agreement, investors are entitled to equal treatment and market access, but there is no investment protection. Therefore, there is no access to dispute settlement between an investment and a State, as provided by the ICS under CETA. In this respect, therefore, this agreement is also different from CETA. The negotiated agreement has yet to be legally cleaned up and translated before being submitted to the Council for approval. It is not expected to happen until the end of this year. On the basis of the content of the agreement, the Council and the European Parliament will assess the agreement, but we cannot therefore distinguish between investors under ICS with CETA and investors under the terms of the trade agreement with New Zealand. Then Mrs Prast had another question about jobs: how to prevent more jobs from competing with care in other sectors? CETA has been provisionally applied for more than five years. Although bilateral trade with Canada is growing, changes in employment in one sector are not directly at the expense of those in another sector. Shifts taking place will take place in particular within sectors such as trade or transport and storage. Finally, CETA contains agreements on the temporary movement of persons for services, but these agreements are limited to certain professions for which a university degree or knowledge of equivalent level is required. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about deregulation and the standstill clause. This is about market access for services. The aim of the standstill mechanism is to ensure that a market remains at least as open as it was at the time of the conclusion of the agreement. This contributes to predictability. In maintaining the liberalisation of services, it is important that Canadian companies in these sectors should be able to offer services in the same way as Dutch, German, French and other European companies. With the ratchet mechanism, certain future liberalising measures of a Party are automatically part of the Convention. This will not make them more stringent later on. The aim of this is that the chord remains forward looking, so in time. Liberalisation of a sector does not mean deregulating it. Parties may continue to regulate and impose requirements as long as this is not done through arbitrary or unfair discrimination. Then Mr Otten asked about the commitments made to the PvdA in exchange for support for CETA. That suggestion is far from my point of view. At the request of your Chamber, including the PvdA, I brought proposals for the introduction and improvement of the complaint mechanism to the attention of the Commission. This correspondence has been shared with your Chamber. Your Chamber was thus informed of the requests to the Commission. It is then up to the PvdA Group to consider and express an opinion on CETA. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u604	Thank you. Then one last round of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u605	That was indeed the question that had not yet been answered: are there any way, in any way, to the extent known to the Minister, for it could of course also have been made by other people, commitments made towards the PvdA in exchange for the aid? If I understand correctly, the Minister himself has no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u606	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u607	Okay, I'll establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u608	I would like to come back to the standstill clause and the ratchet clause. I think the Minister is correct in saying what that is like, but as I said earlier, does this actually mean that our so-called right to regulate, our right to regulate, is being restricted? Perhaps the Minister can respond once more, because you are actually saying that what has already been liberalised at the time of the entry into force of CETA cannot be regulated in that way again. We cannot reverse this liberalisation and, if necessary, we cannot reverse what we are going to liberalise in the future, when CETA is already in force. Reverting liberalisation is also regulation, isn't it? That's the right to regulate, isn't it? That is a fundamental right that parliaments should have. I know that we have partly given that up in the EU, but that is not what we are talking about today. It's about CETA now. This is the "comprehensive" or comprehensive aspect of CETA, in which we do give away that right to regulate in part. That is exactly what my group is objecting to. Mr Van Ballekom says: we in the VVD Group are fine with that. I understand that; the VVD is the party to liberalisation, but we are not. But my fundamental point, which has to do with democracy, is that the right to regulate is at stake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u609	Mr Van Apeldoorn already points out that we have actually already agreed to this in Europe. The idea of CETA is therefore that we cannot discriminate against Canadian companies. So if we have arranged it for European companies in the European internal market and we have made these agreements with each other, we have done so with this standstill clause for Canadian companies. As mentioned above, parties can continue to regulate and make demands as long as this is not arbitrary or leads to unjustified discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u610	Mrs. Prast. Or do you have one final question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u611	Very briefly. But Canada's not going to join the EU, is it? And in the EU, at least we still have a role to play for the European Parliament and also for national parliaments, and that is not the case with CETA in this case either. So there is a fundamental difference. I drew the parallel with the EU myself, but I did so to make it clear that this is obviously a different situation, although you may also wonder whether we have not given up too much sovereignty there, but that is not the discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u612	I have a question about the trade agreement with New Zealand, which no ICS is foreseen. New Zealand and Canada are both part of the Commonwealth, I think. Then the next question comes up. If because of these unreliable EU countries it is so incredibly essential that ICS is there for Canada, why is it not incredibly important that it is there for New Zealand? That's one question. Then there is a related question, which I apparently didn't ask correctly, since I didn't get the answer I meant. We have five years of CETA without ICS. This has led to more Canadian investors in the Netherlands, and I assume also in the rest of the EU. But apparently there are investors who wouldn't do that without ICS, otherwise ICS wasn't necessary. My question was: is that a different type of investor? Doesn't the minister have a picture of that? Then there was one more question about those jobs. It was about more jobs, but now I hear that it's about moving jobs within sectors. But is that more jobs? So if it's more jobs, it's work for people who don't work now. They will therefore not be able to work in health care if it becomes more attractive if there are more jobs in trade and industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u613	To start with this last question: it is, of course, not only more jobs but also the preservation of jobs and the promotion of trade with Canada. It is true, as I said, that it is not so much between sectors but jobs often change within a sector. So that answer remains the same. Can I come back to the other issues in the rejoinder?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u614	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We are slowly reaching the second deadline, but first I would like to propose a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u615	Do the members want to take their seats again? We need the second term of office. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u616	Mr. Chairman. I ended my speech in the first term by saying that this treaty is good for everything that stands for the economy of "more, more and more" and that it is very bad for the much-needed transition to a fair, social and sustainable world. I have to say that the Minister's answers merely confirmed that sentence. It does dispute that the objective of CETA is to maximize trade liberalisation, but at the same time it mentions figures that are entirely about the increased volume of trade, more exports and more imports. The Minister also reported very proudly that the EU and the Netherlands have a trade surplus. This means that we have apparently been very successful in exporting to Canada, including the export of more meat. Because exports of meat to Canada have doubled. And if there is one thing we really need to work on, it is meat consumption anyway, if we really want to put the fight against climate change at the centre. Secondly, meat production has a very perverse production chain; I also argued on this point in my first term. That's gotta be different. Unfortunately, we have not heard the Minister, nor have we heard a vision of how it should go. And that while we are in an agricultural crisis here in the Netherlands at the same time. I also found the contribution of the CDA Group very interesting, I must say. He wanted us to believe that agriculture is getting too much attention, because it would only be 5% of exports. But I would like to remind our CDA colleagues that the total share of agriculture within our own gross domestic product is no more than 1.4%, and at the same time that fact has never prevented the CDA from putting a very wrong agricultural policy at the centre. So it is an important point. Nor has the Minister mentioned the question of how to get out of this frozen agricultural system. CETA ensures that farmers simply remain trapped in a production system where they have to produce more for less income. Mr. Chairman. Sustainability agreements are not enforceable. That was confirmed by the Minister. In cases where there is conflict, dispute, the Parties shall consult and seek appropriate measures, taking into account expert advice. That is what Article 24.15 (11) of CETA says. It is therefore not an obligation, not a sanction. Those are just the facts about sustainability. We have also heard a great deal today about the importance of access by NGOs, trade unions and civil society organisations to, for example, grievance mechanisms. I'm okay with that in itself. It's very necessary, too. However, I am struck by how few NGOs, trade unions and civil society organisations that have expressed their concerns about CETA actually hear the advocates in this debate. Mr. Chairman. The Constitution and ICS. In my view, I have tried to clarify what I think the problem is when it comes to interrupting. I would hope that the Minister will come up with a better story in the second term, because as it now stands, especially with the information she has given us, we may be forced to vote in favour of the motion. 'Cause I thought the defense was really weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u617	I have just checked: we have had 173 questions in the written procedure. The issue of majority and constitutionality has been raised in this House. Today the Minister has been asked a little time or twenty whether it is not sanding and whether it is not... It's an expression argument. You're saying it's not enough. Can Mrs Karimi at all be persuaded of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u618	I did not sign the motion because I thought: I am just going to open this debate and see how the Minister will support it during the debate. Yes, indeed, we have had written consultations. I wasn't impressed with the answers at the time either. Then you wait for the debate. I have now heard and participated in the debate. I must say that I found the Minister's answers extremely weak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u619	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u620	Then there is the role and competence of the joint committees. I would also really like to have an answer on the competence of the joint committees with regard to harmonization. As we read the Treaty, they have enormous powers to do so without any parliamentary control. Finally, Mr President. We shall have a roll-call vote on this tomorrow. I hope that D66 colleagues and Christian Union colleagues consider climate change to be very important, with which we are working together on the fight against climate change, think again about this, given what they have heard, given the incredibly devastating impact of that economy of more, more and more, so that they can make their judgements in a different way. And, of course, my esteemed colleagues from the PvdA group. The Young Socialists have also joined the PvdA's call for the PvdA's group to vote against. The number of signatories to that open letter is growing by the hour, so I would say: dear colleagues, dear fellow warriors, we need you to stop this treaty. We can do that together, let's do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u621	There is an interruption by Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u622	That is a heart-warming appeal from Mrs Karimi, to which our group wholeheartedly supports. I have a question for Mrs Karimi. Does it feel like a personal failure that the GroenLinks Group has not been able to make it clear to the PvdA that they have been made happy with a totally dead sparrow? The fact that they have not proved reasonable must be a disappointment to you, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u623	It's a disappointment to me. The Labour Party and mine have very good talks. We talk to each other at content level. Indeed, we have not succeeded in convincing the group so far. I hope that after this debate it will succeed. I'm not giving up hope that easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u624	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I shall then give the floor to Mr Backer. Sorry, Mr Van Rooijen has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u625	I am actually sorry that the Labour Party has not been able to convince the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance if you want to stick together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u626	It's just how you look at it. Thank you, again. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u627	Thank you, Mr President. I have just brought the traffic jams with the 173 or 175 questions that have been asked in recent years. I do that also for the viewers and listeners at home who think: gosh, the debate is only about three points. It has been on many more points, but the case is that many of them have been discussed much earlier. Answers were given to this and sometimes it was a repetition of moves. Anyway, it's a plenary session and that's what's going on. I thank the Minister for the answers. If we look at Canada, at the content of the agreements and at the progress made in relation to previous trade agreements, and we see the messages, the e-mails and the written questions, including in my own political group, then I sometimes think: am I in the wrong movie? This afternoon I have also thought of that, and yet I feel that we have moved forward in this debate to clarify a number of points and see if we can get closer together. I said it this morning and I experienced it myself: the subject is very politicised. Of course, it's about politics, and a struggle for ideas. But still, in dealing with each other... If, for a subject like this, the barracks street is to be removed on both sides, I think: well, this is not what you want, the tyranny of the majority, but not of the minority either. It has actually become a bit of a sense of whether you are good or not, whether you are for sustainability or not for sustainability. And with that, I kind of follow up on the subject Mr Koole mentioned: as a reformist and also as a social-liberal, I recognize that we can move forward step by step, and that we need to build on that. And of course, there are colleagues who think the glass is half empty. I feel like it's slowly filling up. Mr. Chairman. I think that when I raised the geopolitical issue this morning, it almost felt that I was doing something that was not appropriate in the Chamber. But we can't rid ourselves of the political situation and the war and the alliance, can we? That is something we are debating against, isn't it? And that's why I thought: I have to make that point for a while. I believe that this is a very fair balance, and that is why I am bringing it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u628	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say, for the sake of the Acts, that I think Mr Backer is a good man. But... The CETA Convention is no good. And that's the discussion here today. It's not about who's good and who's bad. It is about what is right and what is wrong with this CETA Convention. As far as the SP Group is concerned, and as far as many groups are concerned here today, there are a lot of things that are not right about the CETA Convention. Nor is it a matter of representing a few steps forward, but we believe that it is not enough steps, or not enough big steps. No, if we vote in favour of this neoliberal fossil treaty tomorrow, that is a giant step backwards towards fair and sustainable world trade with respect for democracy. That's our point. That's the point of my input this afternoon. Mr Backer is now talking about whether you are satisfied when the glass is half full or half empty. So that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u629	I am very pleased that I have come through the assessment of my colleague Van Apeldoorn. And yes, you can argue about that, whether the treaty is right or wrong. But I have sometimes felt the other way in this debate; I'm just being honest about that. And that's why I brought it up. Mr. Chairman. In the eyes of a number of political groups, PVV, JA21...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u630	Maybe Mrs. Karimi can interrupt for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u631	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u632	That's what the chairman's talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u633	It's okay with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u634	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No, I actually wanted to say, after that, that I think we really had the debate on the substance. And I must say that it does not suit my fellow Members to say that the debate has been conducted personally, or such a victim role... That is just a hard debate, because it is about something, something very fundamental. And those protesters were very peaceful this morning compared to the demonstrations we have seen in the country over the last few days. So I would also like to pay tribute here to the people who stood here at 8:00, 8:30 and tried to make their voices heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u635	I share that appreciation. We disagree, but I share the appreciation. So there's no misunderstanding at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u636	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we debated the general provision of the Constitution which guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. My group has voted against it, because we believe that this is already sufficient part of it. But at least the fraction of D66 has strongly recommended doing so. Now, quite simply, the Constitution says: "The judiciary is entrusted with the trial of civil rights disputes and claims." That's in Article 112. Of course, the Constitution must always be read in its entirety. Article 91 (3) states: "If a treaty contains provisions which differ from the Constitution or require such derogations, the Chambers may only approve it by at least two thirds of the number of votes cast." Those two articles relate to today's debate. In other words, the question is first of all: is that ICS equal to what is in the Constitution or is it something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u637	First of all about the Dutch democratic order of law. That was the subject of a motion by my party colleague Hans Engels. That is why it is interesting: this Chamber can still influence legislation through a detour. In the end, this has changed the wording in the preamble to the Constitution. It was approved last week. I think it is a very important provision. I was surprised that the SGP Group voted against it. That is not the order of this debate, but I said it because you are quoting it. And yes, what Mr Schalk now... Actually, we're going to do the debate again and repeat it. It concerns Article 93 and Article 112. I do not want to be faint, but I think we also discussed this issue around 10.30 a.m., when your colleague Van Dijk was here. The Netherlands has acceded to the European Convention. The European Community has been given exclusive commercial power. It was on many issues, but on one point, the European Commission is not competent to conclude supplementary dispute resolution. However, the European Commission is competent, as the opinions of the European Court of Justice later showed, to conclude treaties on the basis of which additional facilities, such as the ICS, can be arranged. This was approved by the European Parliament, the European Council and the House of Representatives. In doing so, competence has been given within the constitutional framework. So there's nothing rubbing. There's nothing against it. So there is nothing on that point, but Mr Schalk has a different view on that. At the time, the Van der Staaij initiative law also laid down this view: where questions of sovereignty are raised, the SGP Group believes that a two-thirds majority is needed. But that proposal has been accepted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u638	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u639	Sure. That is indeed what is attuned here. I have to accept that, too. Firstly, a small correction: I was not referring to Article 93, but to Article 91, third paragraph. That is important to the Acts, I think. I will return to the key question, which I have not yet received an answer to. I understand Mr Backer's reasoning, but the key question at the moment is: is the ICS as it has now been established equal to what is in the Constitution or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u640	That's not the question at all. What's happening all the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u641	But it's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u642	No, but this is serious. The Minister has now also been questioned about 25 times on the same subject. The Council of State has advised on this. I also asked Mrs Karimi: are you still open to another view on this issue? She said, yes, but you haven't been able to convince me so far. I am doing my best, but I am afraid I will not convince Mr Schalk either. The Minister explained it. Within the powers of the internal legal order, Article 112, it has been possible to conclude a treaty by means of the treaty-law delegation and conferral of powers, entirely in accordance with Treaty law and therefore constitutionally. The treaty is concluded. We look at this arrangement and test it. My group says that this is fine and it fits within the constitutional organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u643	One last attempt, then. I agree that something has been established by the European Commission and that the House of Representatives voted in favour of it. That is all true, but this First Chamber has its own responsibility and once again looks at it that is our job to say whether it is supposed to be here. However you turn or turn, it is a very important part of our discussion whether we are doing something that is actually outside the Constitution, and then perhaps we need to see the consequence of that and whether what we decide now is going against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u644	It is entirely in accordance with constitutional requirements. I would like to conclude with a quote that fits in with this discussion. That's a quote from political thinker and writer Alexis de Tocqueville. He wrote in the nineteenth century: "A great man once said that ignorance stands on both extremes of knowledge." Well, ignorance is not the issue here. I continue with the quote: "He might have been closer to the truth if he had said that deep beliefs only exist at the ends and that there is doubt between them." We in the Group have also had that doubt in the assessment of the CETA Convention. We went through it. We have gone through all these questions and we have come to the conclusion that it is a step forward, that it is in line with the Constitution. After doubt, I believe that this conclusion is positive in political matters. We would like to take that step. All the members of our group will do so tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u645	Mr Otten for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u646	We had some difficulty in suppressing ourselves a little when Mr Backer said he felt that he did not pass through the standards of virtue. Well, if there is a group that often has a hand with that, it is Mr Backer's group, but I also agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn: Mr Backer is good, but this CETA agreement is not good. Mr Backer also said just now: I feel like I've gotten into the wrong movie. Then what movie did Mr. Backer end up in? That's the movie The Firm from the early nineties with a young Tom Cruise and the late Gene Hackman. This film about a very big law firm where all kinds of things happen is the one you vote for, because this is now becoming a playing field for global law firms, for multinationals, for the big money. That is obviously what D66 wants, but the baker on the corner of Mr Van Ballekom cannot turn to this Firm. That's the movie Mr. Backer ended up in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u647	That is not in Mr Otten's film, and that will not surprise him. By the way, I do know that film, which also deals with the moral considerations of the person who ends up in that Firm. In these moral considerations, he is doing the right thing, and I hope we will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u648	You're at the end of your speech? Yeah? Thank you. A nice democratic principle is also: 'let's agree to agree', but we are not ready for that. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u649	Mr. Chairman. I had signed in for seven minutes but I see here now two minutes and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u650	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u651	Yeah, but that's not on my clock. Thank you to the Minister for replying. First of all, I would like to endorse the words of appreciation expressed by Mr Karimi for the protesters who rose up this morning to come here and fight for their ideals. I don't think we should talk about that derogatoryly. Then there is the issue of neoliberal globalisation. With Mr Karimi, I note that, of course, there is a need to encourage this outdated form of hyperglobalisation that I mentioned in my first term. If you liberalise not only trade in goods and agricultural products, but also investment and services between the EU, a large trading bloc, and Canada, then of course you will deepen that globalisation. Then you are in the logic of more, more, more: more trade, more growth and more market liberalisation. Mr. Chairman. It was a long debate today. We are not yet at the end, but it has already been a long debate. It was also a special day, when at least two groups seemed to distance themselves from their own electoral programme. They said that exclusive courts for multinationals are no good and we shouldn't want them. We have them with the ICS and CETA. The Minister has confirmed that once again. There can, of course, be progressive insight. You can say that you supported the election program of two years ago, but that you now have different views on it. In particular, in the case of the PvdA, I was surprised by the fact that the ICS was an essential part of the CETA Convention. On this basis, the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Crone, has shook no, but it is indeed the case that it voted against CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u652	After some confusion in my first term about exactly what was in our election programme, I have, of course, looked it up immediately. It appears that this is a special arbitration with additional powers, only for multinationals. My group is not in favour of that. I do not think this applies to the ICS, because the ICS does not give additional powers to multinationals and not just to multinationals. We are therefore acting with our vote in favour entirely within our electoral programme. I understand that is a huge relief for Mr Van Apeldoorn. He was already concerned about the character of the Christian Union. But he doesn't have to. We remain within our election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u653	It is very nice that the Christian Union Group sees it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u654	It seems to me that the most important party to judge that is the Christian Union itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u655	Sure. I would also like to leave that judgment to the Christian Union Group. My point is that we read CETA fundamentally differently, because in my group's reading it is indeed a special arbitration court that gives extra opportunities to multinationals. The Christian Union Group is, of course, free to see that differently, but we then fundamentally disagree. We agree to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u656	It is only a small step from the Christian Union election programme towards globalisation that Mr Van Apeldoorn spoke about. Does he agree with me, whether he is in favour of it or against it, that there is a development in which globalisation is on its way back? This is reinforced by the war that has been raging since February. The world has become much smaller and increasingly divided into blocks. Among other things, as will be the case here in the near future, a European block towards a country with the same standards and values is trying to promote a movement in the sense of goods and services. If we don't, other blocks will take great advantage of that. I said it this morning: that is China and Russia, and perhaps other countries, but in particular those two. Is it not essential to continue to operate in this way, as with other major trade agreements in the future of the European Union with other blocs? So this is not a contribution to globalisation but rather to strengthening certain civilisation blocks in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u657	I believe that we are indeed saying goodbye to globalisation. The reason for this is, as I pointed out this morning, that there is increasing widespread criticism of neoliberal globalisation. This form of globalisation leads to greater inequality, to a greater gap between rich and poor, between a power elite and ordinary people. It leads to the destruction of our planet. It leads to an increase in the power of multinationals. That is exactly what CETA stands for. That's why I'm saying it's a reactionary treaty. It takes us back in time. In the context of these civilisation blocks, I have already said that we share values and standards with Canada. Of course it's a friendly nation. Of course, that is also a rule of law and democracy. Of course, it is important that we have good diplomatic relations with them. And so do we. We are also going to intensify this with the Strategic Partnership Agreement. We are both allies in NATO. If you value all this positively, and my group does so too, then that is no reason to vote in favour of a treaty with that form of neoliberal globalisation, that liberalisation, which is bad for people, the environment and animal welfare. As far as my group is concerned, these are really two different things, which are always confused. I really don't follow that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u658	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u659	My question was actually more from a helicopter view, apart from this treaty, multinationals and small and medium-sized enterprises. My question was whether you agree with me. You say that all this contributes to further globalisation. Do you agree with me that globalisation has been on the retreat for some time and that it has been so on the retreat since the February war that we must ensure that blocks of civilization are maintained? This is completely unrelated to the subject of ICS and such, but you mentioned globalisation. I'd like a reaction from you to that, apart from ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u660	As far as neoliberal globalisation is on a retreat, I welcome that. What Mr Van Rooijen may be referring to, and I am also concerned about, is that multilateralism and cooperation in international institutions are under pressure. This has indeed to do with the changing geopolitical situation. Moreover, we are part of this. We're looking at Russia and China now. We can also look at Trump and the United States. That's what I'm worried about. I would like the Netherlands to continue its efforts to strengthen multilateralism and to strengthen cooperation on the basis of international law and international agreements. I just insist that we don't need CETA for that. That's not the issue either. It is a treaty that provides for the liberalisation of trade and investment. It's not about multilateralism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u661	I suggest that you continue your speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u662	Yes. In reply to Mr Van Rooijen, I said that I cannot follow the geopolitical story of Mr Koole and Mr Backer in that regard, although I follow geopolitics on a daily basis. But that is one reason why Mr Koole is now saying: we are still in favour of the CETA Convention. But in addition, he says: the ICS is actually a huge improvement. To be honest, that surprised me. I actually only hear positive things about that from the PvdA, but I actually expected them to say: "It's not what we wanted yet, but we're going to vote for the Treaty in the light of everything. The ICS is better than what we had." But what do we have now? We do not have an investment treaty with Canada at all now, so in what way is it an improvement? We've heard from the Minister that the Single Entry Point doesn't change CETA. I am glad that she has made that clear once again, and I think it is also good to note that at the end of this long day. I am also pleased that the Minister has said that there is indeed a case for this because I suspected that that would be her answer, rather than a supranational court or arbitration tribunal for parties other than multinationals, i.e. not for employees, NGOs and so on. Then I have to say this. That is precisely what is at stake at the heart of the matter. The Minister then said: "Yes, but trade unions, NGOs, civil society organisations and environmental organisations can go to national courts. For them, the road to national courts is open." Yeah, that's exactly the point. That is the inequality that CETA is creating with the ICS. That is why I say: it is a VIP court for multinationals. We say: for multinationals, for investors, there is this arbitration court, but for everyone else there is not such a court where you can enforce agreements. That is inequality, that is the asymmetry: privileges for multinationals. The minister says the equipment doesn't add anything. I say again: it does add material, because it creates an additional opportunity for the multinationals that were not there before. Then there is a question which the Minister has not gone into; perhaps she will be able to deal with it later. The CETA Convention also refers to indirect expropriation as a basis for compensation for claims made by multinationals. Indirect expropriation is something we do not know in our own administrative jurisdiction. This also increases opportunities for multinationals. I keep saying "multinationals" and not SMEs. Moreover, SMEs can also be made up of multinationals. Companies that invest in other countries are multinationals. These are larger and smaller companies, but that is not the baker around the corner, because they do not invest in Canada. Please, let's stop with that myth. Again, it is clear that the ICS has no enforcement in respect of the already weak, vague sustainability arrangements in the so-called TSD chapters, the sustainability chapters. The Minister once again acknowledged that. I also agree with Mr Karimi. Read Article 24.15 (11) of the CETA Convention, which states that the parties may enter into consultations and seek appropriate measures with regard to the enforcement of the agreements, but that there is no obligation to do so and cannot therefore be enforced in legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u663	Speaking of myths, when we talk about ICS, we're talking about investors. All I hear now is the term'multinationals'. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Apeldoorn: do you know the recent study that shows that 65% of those who make use of this treaty are SMEs and only 35% larger companies, those larger investors?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u664	Again, I asked the Minister about this. Perhaps 65% of these companies are SMEs, but the question is: what is the volume of total trade they represent? That's what we're gonna hear in the second term. Then there's something else. I may have a different definition of'multinationals' than Mrs Oomen. A multinational is a company that operates on a transnational basis and invests from country A in country B. That's a multinational. These are generally large companies. Large companies make the most profits, have the most power and have the best economic position, but they can sometimes be larger SMEs; that is correct. Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's the thing. I was also pleased that the Minister acknowledged that we are dealing with a "parallel legal system" and that she mentioned the animal by the name. We cannot say that about Mr Koole, but of course it is. "Parallel" means: co-existing. A parallel road is a road next to the main road. So they exist side by side. You can then choose which way you take. If the main road is a much better, good, newly paved road that leads much faster from point A to point B, then you choose the main road and not the parallel road. That is, of course, the case here. Multinationals, and not other parties, choose that main road, because that is the shorter, faster route to successful claims. That's a parallel legal system. Then for a short while the right to regulate. The Minister has clearly admitted that liberalisation is secured by a standstill and ratchet clause; it is locked-in and cannot be reversed. I insist that that de facto undermines our right to regulate. You can say that this is also the case in the EU. We are not going to debate the EU here, but it is a different context. Canada is not becoming a member of the EU and in the EU we also have certain institutions that we do not have in CETA, so CETA has an inherent bias in favour of liberalisation. In a way, it is a liberalisation engine. I understand that Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD Group says: that is fantastic, because we are in favour of liberalisation; the more liberalisation, the better. However, I do not understand that from the PvdA Group, for example. Mr Koole talked about ideals for a distant future and referred to his election programme. Apparently, that's not for now. But for the SP, the future is now. Let us go for fair and sustainable trade, as the PvdA says we want. So let us not vote for an outdated treaty that does not give us that better future, but rather for years, perhaps decades backwards when it comes to fair trade. It is precisely if CETA should be a golden standard for future EU trade agreements that is all the more important. So now, or rather tomorrow in the vote, let us choose that better future, for trade that is good for people, the environment and animal welfare, which the future of our planet is more important than the profits and power of multinationals. Let people go for multinationals. You can all, even in the PvdA group, in spite of the group discipline tomorrow simply call 'against'. It's still possible. In spite of your previous appointments, you can still change your mind. I agree with Mr Karimi: it is not too late. Let us stick to the principle that we have previously united: people over multinationals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u665	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u666	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Backer on his birthday. The older, the wiser I'd say. It doesn't make any sense to me. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions. Nevertheless, my group still has difficulty with the answers given on whether or not to undermine the sovereignty of the Dutch State through the introduction of the ICS Court. What worries my group is precisely the two-pronged possibility. After all, as the Minister says: companies, both SMEs and large companies, can make a choice between the Dutch courts and the ICS in order to protect their investments, if unfairly harmed. It is reasonable for SMEs to turn to the Dutch courts from a practical point of view, because of the high registry fees that the ICS will levy, while large companies are likely to turn to the ICS. After all, they can afford high registry fees. Mr. Chairman. This means that two independent bodies are going to make very different binding statements on similar cases that cannot be redeemed. This creates the possibility of parallel justice being created, in a slightly different wording. Can the Minister confirm that this is possible in theory and in practice? And does it consider this acceptable? After all, the Dutch court will not simply take over the judgments of the ICS and vice versa, the ICS will not take over judgments of national courts of the Member States. So you get two kinds of justice side by side. If that is desirable, I would urge the Minister to do so. And is this avoidable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u667	It is only avoidable if investors all choose the same forum, but they have the freedom. It would also be avoidable if... Let me rephrase. It's not parallel, because it's a choice. I thought I'd listen to you assume that... It's a choice. It is an additional form of justice. We've discussed this now, like, twenty-five times, but okay. Then I misunderstood, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u668	Yes. I thought I made myself clear. But if the misunderstanding arose, then apologize to Mr. Backer for that. Mr President, I shall continue with my second point. The Minister indicated the distribution of the 15 judges to be appointed for the ICS: five from Canada, five from the Member States and five from third countries. What countries are these? Can the Minister mention a number of specific countries that can delegate judges? Finally, Mr President. It is remarkable for 50PLUS that the Minister repeatedly states that ICS should not have had to do with the government, but that it is an integral part of CETA, which you are committed to when certifying CETA. We look forward to the Minister's answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u669	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u670	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am going to try again with the Constitution, because of course I am not giving up. We've talked extensively about the claims. On the basis of investment protection, these are civil claims, also known as claims. So I am talking about the claims that can be made to the Dutch State. Then I will return to the Constitution. Article 112 (1) of the Constitution simply states: "The judiciary is entrusted with the jurisdiction of disputes over civil rights and claims." That is simply laid down in the Constitution, in Article 112 (1). It just says it's up to the judiciary; that's just a fact. I take it we can't interfere with this fact. If we can get to this fact, then we can all go home together, because then of course everything is at odds. That's Article 112. Then Rule 91 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Schalk mentioned this earlier. I am going to read it again, because that is also the Constitution and it is simply a fact. It states: "If the Treaty contains provisions which differ from the Constitution or require such derogations, the Chambers may only approve it by at least two thirds of the votes cast." These are just facts. We are sitting here in the First Chamber, and I can only assume that colleagues are thinking about this. Well, I guess I'll have to get some of that off my chest. Look, when we were all installed here, we were so proud of it all. Then, as it should, we also swore on the Constitution. We have sworn allegiance to the Constitution. I am talking about two facts here. It can't be that colleagues are just patching this up. I can't imagine that. I just can't believe that. That is why I am in favour of the following. Whatever you think of CETA, let us at least agree to a two-thirds majority, otherwise we will not be worth a snipe. And then I come back to a PVV stick horse: then we can just as well abolish the First Chamber, because we have no use if we just do this to our boots. And I still have to address Mr. Koole of the PvdA. I can't imagine Mr Koole denying the Constitution as well. I do not think he is the person for that, so I strongly urge you to make the right decision. Look, we can think politically differently, we can think differently about the CETA Convention, but we can't think differently about the Constitution, because that's just the facts. It is the Constitution that unites us. We can't just throw it back over our shoulders. So Mr. Koole: You can still go back, better halfway than completely lost. You can vote against CETA, but please let us vote in favour of the motion calling for a two-thirds majority vote. So I appeal to your common sense, to your common sense: vote for this motion. Then everyone can look themselves in the mirror, because then we have complied with the Constitution. I wanted to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u671	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u672	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to increase trade and transport of live animals, even if according to the government's expert committee, they increase the zoonoses risk. So I note that despite the lessons of the corona crisis, despite the tens of thousands of deaths and hundreds of thousands of healthy years of life lost, the cabinet does not consider the risk of zoonoses. I find that the cabinet is not on the same page. The hope expressed by Minister Staghouwer about greater awareness of our diet related to the protein transition: less animal, more plant. The Christian Union Minister explicitly said that this sustainability should not be temporarily parked by the war in Ukraine. That's a higher purpose. There is no more trade in meat and pure. This minister thought that her colleague Staghouwer meant diversification of trading partners, so that we have enough to eat: grow, grab, graze. I also note that the Minister does not know the following; at least she has said so. She doesn't know how the financial supervisors look at CETA, despite the fact that the Minister agreed that if a Canadian bank would not be authorised to take over a Dutch bank, it could go to the ICS. That is a billion-dollar risk and a risk to financial stability. Fourteen years after the financial crisis, which came unexpectedly before the Netherlands, the cabinet and the proponents of CETA take a big risk in this Chamber, including the Labour Party. As with the crisis at the time, it stems from the inability to imagine something that has not occurred before in combination with the desire to grab and grow. The ICS only checks whether a complaint is reasonable and fair. For example, they do not need to look at financial stability, which they probably do not know about. The Minister repeats repeatedly that countries have the possibility to introduce rules and laws. No one in this Chamber has expressed any doubt about this. That's not the point. It is a question of whether it can be appealed against and whether compensation can be claimed. I also note that audit firms can go to the ICS if they are affected by new measures, such as a ban on advisory services, in their profits. Minister Kaag intends to take action towards this sector following the report of the Committee on Future Accounting. But we don't know which one. So Canadian investors do not know that either, and can then appeal that they could not have taken that into account. Canadian listed companies in the Netherlands can go to the ICS if they are harmed by new policies. A Canadian investor in homes in Amsterdam can claim compensation if he suffers from new restrictions that reduce the benefit of his property. Of course, the ICS arbitrators do not have to take into account the housing shortage in their assessment of reasonableness and fairness. They won't either. So much for the Prince Bernhard tax for pawnshops and investors of the PvdA and the heavy fines for house milkers who charge too high rents. Same for the PvdA, the party that lured voters last year with the plan for a fairer and more decent Netherlands: more contributions from multinationals and a digitalaks for Google and Facebook. Tomorrow, this party is threatening to vote in favour of CETA. I have also heard this evening that the Cabinet does not want CETA for more jobs, but for the preservation of jobs. Then it's about jobs outside care and education. That leaves the staff shortages for what they are. The Minister said that the TSD chapters are legally binding and enforceable to the extent that parties are obliged to follow up on expert panel rulings. That was in response to an interruption by colleague Van Apeldoorn. However, Article 2415 (11) states that the parties shall resume consultations and seek appropriate measures, taking into account expert advice. Have we been properly informed here? I want to end with a motion. The: Mr Prast, Mr Karimi, Mr Beuker, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to Article 8.10.3 in CETA, the Convention Committees are empowered to extend the definition of "fair and equitable treatment," which may lead to an increase in investment protection;]] [[Calls on the Government to promote at EU level that the extension of the protection of investments in CETA or in other trade agreements is always submitted to national parliaments;]] [[calls on the Government, if it fails to do so at EU level, to ensure that decisions to amend the protection of investments are always submitted to the Dutch Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions of my colleague, Diederik van Dijk, and occasionally mine, in the event of interruption. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate on the CETA Convention has been regularly posted as a solid ideological debate that could conceal all sorts of conflicting world views, but my group, the SGP Group, would like to look at this treaty in particular in a business and sober manner, without too many big words. Canada is an important ally and trading partner. For the time being, we will continue to trade seriously with Canada without CETA, and no diplomatic relations will be broken. Having said this, we can quietly make up our mind. I would first like to make three observations, with three parallel questions, in order to bring out that word 'parallel' once again. The first observation is that CETA is absolutely not necessary to enforce agreements under the Paris climate agreement. Canada has already ratified the Climate Agreement in 2016. Does the Minister agree with this conclusion? Two. Dutch farmers are under extreme pressure due to all kinds of heavy standards on plant protection products, animal welfare requirements, the standards for phosphate, manure policy and now the nitrogen problem. These measures do not apply or only apply to a limited extent in Canada. That destroys the Dutch farmer's competitive position. Is this conclusion correct? Third. I am not going to recite Article 112 of the Constitution, because I think the Minister knows it by heart. I would like to ask one short, clear question and perhaps I would like to provide the same answers as the answers that Mrs Prast mentioned earlier in the debate. The answer could be: yes, no or I don't know. The question is whether the ICS is a system in accordance with the Constitution or not. Mr. Chairman. During the first period, my colleague Diederik van Dijk, on behalf of the SGP, criticised the dispute resolution mechanism, which I also said a moment ago. We have expressed our concern about the position of agriculture, not least with the disastrous nitrogen policy in mind. Finally, we have asked critical questions about the level playing field. The concerns of the SGP about these three key elements have not yet been addressed. Due to the sum of these criticisms, the SGP group is heading towards a counter-vote. One more question or comment. We have had a lot of discussions today, particularly on the Constitution. There's also a motion in front of it. To Mr Koole, to the Labour Party, I would like to say that I am also curious about the group's answer to my question on the ICS: is that a system in accordance with the Constitution or not? My conclusion would be that the Labour Party could eventually vote in favour of the law, as it may have promised, and also in favour of the motion. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u674	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u675	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I hope, by the way, that Mr Backer may spend some hours with his family on his birthday, but I fear the worst. The CETA Treaty, which has been democratically established, is not a treaty for the benefit of multinationals. It is a treaty with advantages for small and medium-sized enterprises and the agricultural sector. The experience of the last five years has shown us that this is the case. It is not a treaty that undermines European standards, and it is not an unfair competition but a level playing field. The emphasis has rightly been placed on the effects outside direct trade. The current international circumstances call for a strengthening of relations between the European Union and Canada and also between the Netherlands and Canada. And again, I challenge anyone who can provide substantiated evidence that bilateralism and protectionism better address the climate objectives and economic challenges of today than multilateralism. It concerns not only goods, but also services, innovation, improvement of sustainability and agreements on consumer protection, working conditions and animal welfare. The failure to conform does not bring these objectives closer, quite the contrary. If we don't accord, we fall back on the worse ISDS system, and that's a decline. ICS has nothing to do with the transfer of sovereignty. With all due respect, I attach more importance to court rulings in Luxembourg and to opinions of the Council of State than to the views of colleagues Beuker, Faber or Otten. If we vote in favour of this treaty, we will not vote against the interests of the public in favour of large business, quite the contrary. If we vote in favour of this treaty, it does not mean that we are not thinking about the future of our children, which Mrs Karimi opened the day with, quite the contrary. The moral high ground is not a monopoly of certain parties. Finally. Don't accord also means that the Netherlands defiles its name from reliable international partner. We're gonna hit a mud figure. That is why I will have my group vote in favour of the CETA Convention with full conviction, if it agrees, but you can rely on it. It is a partnership agreement; we are certainly going to vote for it. That was not mentioned in my intervention either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u676	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I call Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u677	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and also for the commitment that the BNC sheet will contain that the action points set out in the sustainability chapter of the new European Commission Communication will be addressed and that the government will call on the Commission to apply those action points directly. That's a good promise. The cabinet was also positive about the idea that if Germany comes up with an initiative to make binding interpretations on the application of the investment protection schemes, the cabinet will also be positive about this. At least that's another step forward. A few comments on comments made in the debate. Mr Schalk said at one point that CETA is not necessary for the Paris climate agreement. No, it is not necessary for the Paris climate agreement, but the other way around it is. After all, CETA requires the two parties to abide by the Paris Agreement. This is very important, and a sustainable future has been brought another big step closer. Then there's the complaints mechanism. I believe that it was also Mr Schalk who said: that complaint mechanism does not touch the content of CETA. No, but it is applicable to CETA and not only to CETA, but to all EU trade agreements. So that's a big wish, too. There was a third remark by a colleague here in the Chamber, by Mr Otten. He called that grievance mechanism a dead, unconscious sparrow. It is precisely because it is so very important that civil society organisations, trade unions and NGOs have a greater say in complying with the provisions in the sustainability chapters that it is not at all a question of qualification, but rather a lively eagle who supervises the proper application of the CETA Convention. And then... but I see Mr. Van Apeldoorn standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u678	Thank you. We need the interruption of Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u679	I actually wanted to say something about the live eagle versus the dead sparrow, but first I want to come back to an earlier point. For I have heard Mr Koole say before that we also need that CETA Convention because it refers to the commitment to the Paris Climate Treaty. Now Mr Koole also says all the time I have heard him argue all day that Canada is a modern and progressive country, that it is a strong democracy and the rule of law and that we share fundamental values with it. If so, and if Canada is part of the Paris Convention and has ratified it and is such a progressive ally and such a strong rule of law with respect for rules of law and international law, why does Mr Koole doubt that Canada will also comply with the Paris Convention without CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u680	Canada has committed itself to the Paris Convention, but it is very good that it is also included in a Convention such as CETA as an obligation for the parties to the Convention. CETA may not be the golden standard of a treaty, but it is an example treaty that may also be applied in the future to other treaties. Then it is good that the Paris Convention is in it and that contracting parties also adhere to other new multilateral climate agreements. It is very good that it says so, and that is also the profit of CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u681	Talk about being happy with a dead sparrow. If you would ask me... If you, Mr Koole, through the President, would ask me, "Do you think there is a treaty that states that the parties must comply with the Paris climate agreement, better than a treaty that does not?', I'll say, of course, "I like the first one better too." But, of course, it is about what the Convention, in this case the CETA Convention, means in practice for the climate and for achieving the goals of the Paris Convention on Climate Change. This has been widely criticised. Milieudefensie, Friends of the Earth and all other environmental organisations have been very critical of this, because CETA also protects the investment interests of large oil companies in Canada. CETA is therefore not good for the climate and will make it more difficult rather than easier to achieve the goals of the Paris Climate Treaty, also because CO emissions are only increasing through CETA, as the EU itself has admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u682	The good thing, of course, is that CETA says that it must be respected. This also means that Canada and other countries, for whatever reason, for example, if trade would lead to more CO emissions, which does not necessarily have to be kept to compensate. The treaty states that it has to be. It lays down obligations, including to Canada. If Canada were to emit more CO, that would have to be compensated. In this respect, I would rather have a treaty with Canada than, for example, with an authoritarian country, which you have to wait and see if compensation is still in place. I am confident that a country such as Canada will do so if it commits itself to the Paris Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u683	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u684	Finally. Canada has that obligation anyway. That's a. I would also prefer a treaty with Canada rather than an authoritarian country, but that is not before now. Now we have a treaty with Canada ahead of us. The question is whether or not that is a good treaty. My answer is clear. You can always make the comparison with authoritarian countries, but that is not the issue as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u685	Mr President, shall I then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u686	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u687	Yes, because I had another point, namely the understanding of parallel justice. I would also like to make the same comments by Mrs Faber and Mr Schalk. They said: from Mr Koole and the Labour Party I did not expect them not to comply with the Constitution, or words of that kind, and what do they think of it? I actually want to quote the Council of State first, before I say anything about it, because that might bring some clarity to the debate. The opinion of the Council of State states that: I'm quoting it literally right now. It's a long quote. They say there's an international court system in CETA. And here comes the quote. "This is without prejudice to the possibility that the investor from one Contracting Party (in this case for the Netherlands: the Canadian) may apply to the national court of the host Member State. In order to avoid parallel proceedings on the same dispute, an investor who has chosen to bring a case before the ICS may no longer apply to the national court at the same time. This option of CETA does not prevent investors from being held back by national courts. Thus, the agreed new system for the international resolution of investment disputes is in accordance with the Constitution." That is the opinion of the Council of State. Since you are not being held back from the national court, you can choose another court, but you are not being held back from the national court. There is no conflict with the Constitution and for that reason we can therefore fully embrace CETA. And then the terminology. I told you, in parallel, that says you can try something at the same time in the national court and the separate court. That's impossible with CETA, you have to choose. And that is why it is also said in the quote: you must avoid parallel procedures. In answering questions, which I have just looked up, the term "supplementary" is not the best, but "alternative" procedure, so you have parallel, you don't want to, but alternative are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u688	Let me begin by saying that at no time would I accuse Mr Koole or the Labour Party of non-constitutional action or anything like that, that must be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u689	Point tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u690	But the precise question I have put to Mr Koole has not yet been fully answered. He has indicated what has been established everywhere and has also been said by the Council of State, but the precise question was: is the ICS a system that is the same, in accordance with the Constitution, or is it a different system?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u691	It is a different court, because the ICS is not mentioned in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u692	That's exactly what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u693	Yes, but it says here that the establishment of ICS is not contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u694	Yes, but the motion states that the ICS is different from the Constitution. Actually, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u695	It is not contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u696	It does not conflict with the Constitution, but it does not. It says it's different from the Constitution. It could help Mr Koole to choose that route when he chose to support CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u697	I understand that you want to hear it, but if it says "deviating from the Constitution," I do not think it is the right wording. I would say that it is not contrary to the Constitution, and that is also what the Council of State says. Mr. Chairman. After careful consideration, our group voted in favour. I see another interplay. Can I just wait and see?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u698	Mrs. Faber. And then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u699	Mr Koole says that CETA is not different from the Constitution, but Article 112 of the Constitution states that "the judiciary is entrusted with the trial of civil rights and claims disputes'. That's just what it says. That's as ready as a whistle. I can't make it any clearer. Surely you cannot say with a dry eye that CETA is not different from the Constitution? That's impossible, isn't it? Then you'll be too short, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u700	No, I'm not shorting myself. I am based, among other things, on the ruling of the Council of State, which is: "so the agreed new system for the international resolution of investment disputes in accordance with the Constitution'. The Council of State is always reviewing the Constitution, prior to laws, and I have the Council of State high on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u701	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u702	I understand Mr. Koole has the Council of State high, but it's an advice and an advice you can put next to you. That's what the government does. The government also sometimes ignores the Council of State's opinions, so that is no mortal sin at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u703	No, but an advice that I agree with, I don't like to lie beside myself. Mr. Chairman. I just want to do my last sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u704	Then I suggest you say your last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u705	The final sentences. I would just like to say that our group is unanimous in favour, after careful consideration, of all those who did not agree. We also respect the protesters who expressed their opinion this morning. But at the end of the day we have made a different assessment, driven by the values of the democratic rule of law and the value of the social democracy of solidarity. In our view, CETA is precisely an instrument which, by setting European standards, combats neoliberalism and sets rules against neoliberalism for the sake of the environment and for the sake of good working conditions. The new court we were just discussing is certainly a big step forward compared to the ISDS, the older arbitration committees that were there. Finally, a vote for CETA is a contribution to a stronger Europe in a very unstable world. I called myself, with Joop den Uyl, belonging to the sinful race of reformists: step by step towards a better, social and sustainable future; for the people, for our children and for the planet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u706	Thank you. Mrs Prast has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't asked or said anything about that Constitution yet. What strikes me is that it is always said: there is more choice. Yeah, there's more choice for that investor, but not for society. Surely it is a fact that by submitting the dispute, so to press charges against the government at the ICS... And the ICS doesn't have to check against Dutch law. In fact, it should not do so; it should only see whether it is reasonable and fair, given the treaty. That has given me a lot of doubts about constitutionality - or unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u708	Not me. Moreover, it is true that Dutch law is not being reviewed, but if Dutch law were to be applied in the Netherlands, it must be taken into account as a fact by those international judges. It is not that it does not matter at all, but it has to be taken into account as a fact. But that international court cannot review Dutch legislation; that is really excluded. But all in all, this court is therefore a court of law, and that is also what the Council of State says appropriate within our constitutional system. It's not against it. They're independent judges. And I would like to say to that: have faith in the independence of impartial judges. It is a court that is carefully assembled. It's not working yet. I do not assume that these are bad people in advance, as was said this morning. I'm assuming they're well-selected people, expert, impartial. Why should that not be an asset in those countries and situations where you cannot rely on a stable rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u709	That term "justice": does it have the same value as a judge as we know it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u710	As far as independence and impartiality and expertise are concerned, I am sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u711	Thank you. Then there is Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u712	I note that Den Uyl talked to the PvdA about being of the sinful race of reformists, who wanted to realize his ideals with the narrow margins of politics. Then we got Wim Kok, who fluttered off his ideological feathers. And now we have Mr Koole, who has turned the party into some sort of trade union for multinationals. That is an interesting evolution of a former workers' movement. How does Mr Koole look at that himself? 'Cause it's a really weird thing, isn't it, that you're the only one on the left flank here supporting this course of action? I still can't understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u713	Then Mr Otten should have listened to my story this morning. I also put a personal note in that. All my life, I have worked for social democratic values in politics. Then I also called Den Uyl and "the sinful race of reformists." And if there's something I've been working on all the time, it's the ideological feathers, you're calling them sticking them back up, and making sure the party remains ideologically driven. But that doesn't mean you never change. Because the world is changing. You're adjusting. But the ultimate goals of fair sharing and a sustainable world, good for us and our children, remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u714	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen for a final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u715	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a question, but rather an understatement of Mr Koole's speech. I was in that Den Uyl cabinet. His drive and vision led to a great election victory with support, in harsh times, with inflation above 10%. He's kept course. The people have rewarded him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u716	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u717	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u718	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for her answers. We talked today about CETA. The spearhead was the ICS. I explained my thoughts on this as well as possible in the first period. I don't really feel the urge to repeat that. With regard to the debate on the Constitution, my group follows the interpretation of the Council of State and the rulings of the European Court of Justice. We believe that the ICS does not squash with the Constitution. The Minister's answers were clear to my group. Mr. Chairman. One final point is about the farmers. They are extremely concerned about CETA. It's been in operation for five years. So far they haven't had any of that, but somehow that fear and concern are there. I would like to ask the Minister if she can go into the question of when farmers, through nitrogen measures or other things, will be at a distance and will no longer be competitive. What measures can be taken? The Minister replied to this in an interruption, but perhaps she would like to go into it a little more fully, also because of the protests that were there and because of the concerns that farmers are concerned about, rightly or unjustly. Mr President, that was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u719	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u720	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. It will not be easy: the first time in this house and then such a long seat and in so many different ways have to say the same. I would also like to thank the Minister for the way in which she has placed today's discussion in today's world, a world in great turbulence. I want to say something about ICS. In the debate on ICS, i.e. the private arbitration, which is now better and more transparent than before, I distance myself from the remarks made by my colleague Mr Van Apeldoorn, who constantly talks about 'they are multinationals'. No, it's investors, big and small, who can use this mechanism. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go to the blessings. I have also said in my first term that the questioning, the frappez toujours, is due to the way in which we have functioned as a senate. Certainly Mr Koole's intrusive questions have also contributed to this. Those blessings are: the Single Entry Point, the guidelines, the tight timetables, but certainly also the complaints mechanism, TSD. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment she made to try to get it into the Treaty after ratification. Mr President, I would like to finish this debate. I've heard incredibly much criticism. That criticism was actually the first time since I've been here, especially speculative and not always based on facts. That hurts me. That is why I say once again that if we reject this treaty, we will only harm the opponents of our common values. This is a reason for the CDA Group, along with all the other advantages, to go back to those values and say: we fully support what is going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u721	Mrs Oomen can say here that she has heard a lot of criticism that was not based on facts, but I would like to hear from her exactly what she is referring to. Could Mrs Oomen give an example of criticism that was not based on facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u722	Yes, the whole discussion we had about the complaints system was not based on facts. I have a large pile lying there, and I went through it all the way to see what the exact answers were to all the questions we had here, including your questions. Those questions have been adequately answered. If we are not prepared to look closely at those answers which are not given by the first, but by experts and on which two or three other questions have come up, then it will stop once again. In the first period, I said exactly why I believe that this treaty should be approved. You do not think this should be done, but I would like to say again: that is what you are playing into the hands of those who do not represent our values.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u723	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u724	However, I would like to say that I have gone through all the questions and answers carefully. I have even quoted one of those answers in my contribution. Moreover, I have received a somewhat enlightening reply from the Minister. But I'd like to get an answer to my question from just now. I am asking Mrs Oomen for an example of criticism that is not based on facts. The only thing Mrs Oomen insinuates is that the opposition, which has made a great deal of criticism, has not properly studied the documents and the statements of reply. I think that's just wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u725	What I have just said is that there is no talk of investors in the dispute about arbitration. There is only talk of multinationals going above people. Apart from the fact that multinationals also represent people, these are investors. Isn't that a critical point? Mr. Chairman. Once again, I appeal to all those who share our common values to approve this treaty tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u726	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I call Mr Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u727	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a word of thanks to the Minister. It was quite a tour, it was a long day, and well done. Thank you. We look back on a lively first term. We had a special day together. Looking back, I come to a few preliminary conclusions. I think I am right to say that we have no problem here with the strategic partnership and that we are going to hit it. Today is really about the investment part, the ICS, the Joint Committee, the committees and the arbitration court. A lot has rightly been said about this. The trade advantages have not been contested either. So that's nice, too. Canada's trading partner has not proved to be a problem either. So that's good, too. What has also become clear and what my group still wants to make clear is that the Netherlands does not need any additional dispute settlement. We believe that Dutch law provides sufficient safeguards. It rubs with the powers that are transferred. That is why I would like to put a brief question to the Minister. If all this is not true, why are we dealing with it here today? Why is the trade agreement with Canada being dealt with in this house and not the trade agreement with Vietnam, Singapore and all of them? That has everything to do with the ICS. That is why the Court has also said: that does indeed affect your Constitution. Then there's my last short question. The Minister has clearly explained that if there are recommendations from the technical committees, which will eventually be dealt with in the Council. The question is: do we have a right of veto or are we going to decide by a normal majority? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. We ask the government: ask Brussels to renegotiate. Let ICS out. Do it just like the Singapore Trade Agreement. It's all been treated for a reason. A parallel legal system is being created. That is why we shall be holding up the motion of two-thirds of the right-wing majority. We are asking you all to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u728	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u729	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's equal before the law. Article 1 of our Constitution says: 'All those who are in the Netherlands are treated equally, without discrimination'. All pigs are equal, but some multinationals are more equal. What is happening here today is contrary to all the principles of justice enshrined in our Constitution. Many people have pointed that out. The Minister does not really come out of that in her answer: is it or is it not contrary to the Constitution? I haven't really heard a clear answer to that. I myself do not believe very much in the terms left and right. I think that's a little out of date. I think more in terms of: do you want to go somewhere with this country or do you want to stick to what you have and continue in the existing way? These labels are often used in politics. Today we have seen farmers with tractors in front of the First Chamber but also Extinction Rebellion, from left to right, from the animal party to the BoerBurgerMovement that write articles together, from the PVV to the SP and GroenLinks. It's very wide. People here today say, "Don't do that ICS system." We are not opposed to trade but we are opposed to outsourcing justice for a separate group of companies. This is contrary to the principle of equality. We can't get started on that, can we? It is also contrary to our Constitution. Mrs Faber has tabled a motion on this. We will support them for that reason. But over the broad political spectrum, from very left to reasonable right, we see a kind of consensus emerging that this is not a good plan. It's a broad alliance. Despite all the complaints we hear every day about fragmentation in politics, we are now seeing a consolidation. People say don't do this. So we're seeing a reverse motion. We welcome that. Those are people who are best for this country. Whether they're left or right, they want what's best for the Netherlands. You see the insiders in the coalition on the one hand. They think, "We're just gonna sell it on the last day before the recess. Then nobody's paying attention. Everyone's on vacation. Then we'll get away with it." That's one point of departure: we're getting away with it. Our starting point is: what is good for the Netherlands and what is good for the Dutch? Then you shouldn't do this. Then you shouldn't want this. But the PvdA is for inexplicable reasons for this version of the CETA Convention. A complaint procedure has been rigged. During the debate I had the impression that Mr Koole used to be very much a fan of the TV programme "That too!'. That was looked at a lot at the time. Then you could complain all day about all kinds of companies that had delivered something wrong. It became a kind of national TV hit, because they were all complaints and complaints and things that went wrong. Only, it was fun for entertainment, but that's all it did for you. That is the same with Mr Koole's complaint procedure: all nice, a bit of complaining and a bit of galloping, but it doesn't change the CETA Convention. So it is not Mr Koole's eagle. It's more like the unconscious sparrow I mentioned earlier, I think. But I don't think we're gonna go any further in bird analogy, 'cause otherwise I'm gonna go after myself. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We are here above all for the interests of the Dutch and to safeguard the interests of the Dutch, especially since the Rutte cabinet has now proved itself unable to do so. I can hear Mr Van Ballekom's consensual sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u730	There is another interruption by Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u731	The contradiction that Mr Otten makes bothers me a little bit. Those who are against the approval of CETA have the best interests with our country, and the others... Yes, what do they really want? They want the case to go through a little bit and don't think about it anymore. I really object to that. You might as well disagree with each other, and that's what we are here. There's a big difference here in how we estimate CETA. But I will not let Mr Otten complain that what I am saying is not motivated by my group's search for what is best for our country. It bothers me that Mr Otten is assuming that my group would not. I'd actually like him to... yeah, he probably won't, but I'd actually think he should say he shouldn't have put it that way. We differ, but what binds us is that we are sitting here together because we are all looking for what is best for the Netherlands. I say it on behalf of Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u732	If you really mean that, I say to Mrs Huizinga, then you must vote against this treaty, especially since your own electoral programme states: we do not want arbitration tribunals for multinationals. That's what it says on page 133. I saw it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u733	No, I've explained to you that there's something else in there. That also has to do with how you estimate this. But by saying "if you are really looking for the best for the Netherlands, then you agree with us," you deny that you can just look differently and still look for the best. I'm just disappointed by you saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u734	I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u735	I'd like to respond to that. There's gonna be a wide range of arguments, all across the spectrum, all the same. I do not believe that in the years I have been in the First Chamber, I have ever experienced that I actually agree with GroenLinks, the SP, the PVV and you name it. The SGP. Who am I forgetting? We also have the BoerBurgerMoveway on the other side. Everyone has exactly the same reason why they are against it. That's cross-party. In the Lower House this was also adopted by the smallest possible majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u736	Your point is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u737	I hope that will not happen here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u738	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u739	So I would like to conclude by saying that tomorrow we shall vote on this treaty in this way, so that this cabinet can renegotiate and we will settle a good trade agreement with Canada in the second round. We shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u740	Thank you very much. Then I would like to know whether there are any Members who would like to speak in the second term. That is not the case. At the request of the Minister, I shall suspend for fifteen minutes. It is now 10.10 p.m., so we are suspending this debate until 10.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u741	Before I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, I would like to ask colleagues to seriously limit the number of interruptions. It would be nice if we could finish by 11:00. Tomorrow we will also start the debate early again, and it will continue until far after midnight. So I think it would be wise, also in order to protect each other, to limit the debate as much as possible and not to repeat it. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u742	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer them as follows. First of all, I would like to address the questions on the Constitution. Then I come to the other questions that have been asked. Finally, I would like to end with the motion. Several members recalled whether the ICS would be in breach of the Constitution. I would like to be clear about CETA, the ICS and the Constitution. As has been said, the Cabinet considers that there is no conflict with the Constitution. The Council of State also makes this very clear. Mrs Karimi just asked me a question about national competence and investment protection in the first period. As I understand it, this was about the ruling of the EU Court of Justice in the Singapore case. In it, it ruled on the division of competences between the EU and the Member States, and considered that investment protection falls within the shared competence of the Union and the Member States. This has nothing to do with the Dutch Constitution, but with the interpretation of EU law. The fact that we as a Member State may agree to CETA and the establishment of ICS does not mean that we transfer a competence from the Netherlands to the international legal system. The EU Court of Justice also made it clear that ICS is not contrary to EU law. This was indicated by the Court of Justice in Wallonia's request for an opinion. Let me say again about the possible conflict with Article 112 of the Constitution. This has also been brought about by a number of parties and has led to further discussions. There is no question of that either, as has been said. That article deals with the division of competence within the national legal order. The ICS does not remove the dispute settlement of claims in the national legal order from national courts, as laid down in Article 112 of the Constitution. International agreements are being made on minimum legal protection for foreign investors. International judges in the ICS can rule on this. This is not a parallel process of justice, but a very specific additional or alternative option for investors to enforce their rights in specific cases on the basis of international agreements. I can only endorse what the Council of State has said. Then, in response to Mr Van Rooijen's questions, there is a risk of parallel justice and contradictory statements. He asked if this is desirable. I can reassure Mr Van Rooijen. Under CETA, there is no possibility of different rulings. The ICS Court shall have jurisdiction on the basis of CETA and national courts under national law. That is another legal basis. Parallel procedures are also not allowed under CETA. An investor cannot bring a claim before the ICS and at the same time conduct an ongoing procedure before the national courts. In addition, the judges under ICS may not rule on the legality of a particular measure and may only consider the interpretation of national law as a factual fact. They can only compensate for a breach of the CETA rules, i.e. if a government fails to comply with the principles of good governance. Mr Koole talked about the costs of ICS and SMEs. ICS is much cheaper for parties than ISDS. It is generally more expensive than national law, but the agreement in CETA is to establish special rules on costs for SMEs. The European Commission is working this out now and must be ready for the entry into force of the ICS; we have already established that ICS has not yet entered into force. All this is intended to facilitate access for SMEs to the ICS. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked me how many SMEs use CETA, relative to the total number of SMEs, and what the trading volume of SMEs is. Around 3,700 SMEs currently use CETA. This would represent around 7% of the total number of SMEs with more than 10 employees in the Netherlands. In practice, SMEs are often active in international markets. If SMEs using CETA are compared to the number of medium-sized SMEs, this share is much higher. As far as the volume of trade is concerned, Eurostat figures show that in 2019 more than 70% of exports to Canada were made by Dutch SMEs. Then Mrs. Prast. I'd come back to the health jobs. People cannot work in care if there are more jobs in trade. Growth in bilateral trade between the EU and Canada does not mean that this is entirely new jobs, but part of employment will also be related to trade diversion, as I said earlier. The impact of CETA on the overall labour market is also relatively limited compared to the impact of overall trade and the impact of macroeconomic factors. It is therefore not self-evident that all people who work in the trade can, or will, work in the care sector. There is also no question of full labour mobility. Over time, there is no fixed number of available labour in the Netherlands. Mrs Faber and Mrs Karimi asked: farmers get access to a new power, but what good is it if you are limited by nitrogen; how does the Minister see this? The transition of the agricultural sector and the area-based approach will undoubtedly also have an impact on our international market. This means that volumes will change in imports and exports, but the international market will continue to play an important role in earning power in part of the sector. The cabinet focuses on the export of high-quality products. Canada is a developed economy with a demand for high-quality products. So here are opportunities for Dutch business. More opportunities for trade are therefore becoming more important. I shall then go straight to Mrs Huizinga's question. Farmers are of course concerned about their future, but farmers have also expressed concern about CETA. Are they now disadvantaged by nitrogen measures and what measures can be taken by the EU? Our farmers must meet high sustainability requirements. That is why, like the Minister of LNV, I think this is an important issue, because our farmers are very innovative. The EU has a system of rules that protects but also makes the internal market resilient, including protection for sensitive sectors and/or products. The EU and the Netherlands continuously monitor markets for distortions. In the event of a threatening sudden increase in imports, the EU, as I have just said, can take trade defensive measures such as safeguard measures. The transition of the agricultural sector and the area-based approach will undoubtedly also have an impact on our international market. This may mean that volumes will change in imports and exports, but the international market will continue to play an important role in earning power in part of the sector. The cabinet focuses on the export of high-quality products. Canada is a developed economy with a demand for high-quality products. So here are opportunities for Dutch business. Canada also has ambitious nitrogen targets, including for agriculture. In order to ensure that Canada achieves this objective, it published the Emissions Reduction Plan for 2030 in March 2022. Mrs. Prast asked about New Zealand and the ICS. If it is so important with Canada, why is it not so important with New Zealand? Indeed, investment protection is not part of the EU-New Zealand Treaty, nor has it been part of the negotiations. Unlike CETA, where Canada and the EU had a desire to include investment protection in the Convention, New Zealand, unlike Canada, has also not concluded individual investment agreements with EU Member States and therefore no interest in agreeing on these agreements with the EU. There is no need to replace anything there. Mrs. Prast asked for five more years of CETA without ICS. She said: there are apparently investors who only invest with ICS; what type of investors are they? The fact that five years of CETA have passed without ICS cannot automatically lead to the conclusion that there are therefore investors who only invest with ICS. It cannot be said whether and which type of investors would only invest in the EU because of ICS from Canada or vice versa. In addition, ICS exists in case of a risk of failure with an investment, and there would be a breach of the principles of good governance as laid down under CETA. Mr Otten asked for Rule 26. He said that the Committee has the power to decide on all parts of the Convention; decisions of the Joint Committee are binding on all parties and the Parliament would not have any influence on that. Article 26.3 provides that in order to achieve the objectives of CETA, the Joint Committee is to be empowered to take decisions on all matters identified in this Agreement, i.e. only those explicitly mentioned in the Convention. Subsequently, the text of the treaty always indicates where this can be done in different places. CETA only provides for the competence of the Joint Committee to amend certain technical protocols and annexes. This concerns, for example, the addition, as I said earlier, of new geographical indications on the list in Annex 20a. For the sake of clarity, most of the issues that may be decided by the Joint Committee concern exclusive EU powers. These decisions of the Joint Committee therefore require the Union's agreement, i.e. through the Council, and that includes the Netherlands. About what the Netherlands does there, the cabinet is accountable to parliament. For the rest, CETA Treaty provisions can only be amended by the Contracting Parties themselves and treaty changes must be approved in accordance with national constitutional procedures. Mr Van Dijk asked earlier today whether CETA is necessary to ensure compliance with the Paris Agreement by Canada. No, according to the evaluation of the SGP, does the Minister agree? Under CETA, Contracting Parties confirm that they will fulfil their obligations under multilateral environmental agreements and commit themselves to the effective implementation of, inter alia, the Paris Agreement. In a joint recommendation, they reaffirmed the importance of the Paris Agreement with a view to cooperation in the field of climate and trade. In doing so, CETA provides an additional leverage for compliance with international environmental agreements such as Paris. I am confident that Canada will fulfil its obligations under Paris. Mr Schalk asked whether the ICS was a system in accordance with the Constitution. The answer is yes. Mr Van Rooijen asked which third countries the five non-EU and non-Canada judges came from. The Judges shall be appointed by the Joint Committee. As far as non-EU/Canada countries are concerned, there is no definition of the five countries from which these judges will come. The Joint Committee shall be composed of representatives of the EU and Canada. The list of candidates for judges is thus drawn up jointly by the EU and Canada. It is stipulated that the courts must comply with strict requirements, including requirements of independence, a code of conduct, and the requirements of their country to hold or be known as an expert lawyer. Mr Schalk also asked about the competitiveness of the Dutch farmer and about the strict rules on Canadian farmers. As I mentioned earlier, agricultural entrepreneurs have to comply with different standards that differ from one country to another. Eventually, there are a multitude of factors involved in determining the final competitive position of Canadian and Dutch companies. Mr Beuker asked why we are dealing with CETA here if there is no transfer of competence. He also asked: why not the Vietnam agreement? CETA is dealt with in the First Chamber because it is a mixed agreement, where there are EU competences and Member State competences. That is why the national parliaments must also agree. This has nothing to do with the transfer of powers through CETA; that is not the case. The trade agreement with Vietnam or with Japan contained only agreements which fall within the exclusive competence of the Union. They will therefore only be submitted to the European Parliament. Again, there is no question of a transfer of powers through CETA. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether the harmonisation of product standards could be achieved through CETA. The EU and Canada may discuss possible regulatory cooperation under CETA. This means, therefore, to explore voluntarily the issues on which cooperation can be developed in the future. But the bottomline remains: changes on the EU side or new requirements always require EU legislative procedures. Mrs Prast asked another question: that was an open question from the first term or a Canadian bank that wants to take over a Dutch bank and does not get a licence, can go to the ICS because of lost profits. No, a Canadian bank that wants to take over a Dutch bank and doesn't get a license for that can't go to the ICS. When making an investment, each investor must comply with national legislation of the country in which the investment is made. Having a permit is a condition for making that investment. The refusal of that authorisation is not a ground for making a claim. Ms Prast also asked if the AFM and DNB had been consulted on CETA. She also asked about their views. The cabinet position for the signing and approval of CETA is broadly aligned within the government, including with the Ministry of Finance. That is, as Mrs Prast also knows, the mother ministry of DNB and AFM. During the negotiation process, there has also been constant alignment. None of these consultations raised any objections to CETA by or on behalf of the AFM and DNB. Mrs Prast also asked about the sustainability agreements and whether the Cabinet had properly informed the Chamber of the enforceability of these agreements in CETA. I have just emphasised that the sustainability agreements are legally binding. I have also indicated how they can be enforced under CETA. For the sake of clarity, I will explain once again the specific dispute resolution process provided for by CETA. In the case of alleged violations, one party may request formal consultations with the other party. If the consultations do not lead to a solution, an independent expert panel may be invoked. This panel of experts draws up a report assessing the alleged infringement and makes recommendations for compliance with the agreements. If the Panel of Experts considers that one of the Parties does not comply with its obligations, the Parties shall consult under the Convention and shall be deemed to identify appropriate measures or adopt an action plan within three months. There is therefore an obligation to follow up such a panel report. The Committee on Trade and Sustainable Development then monitors its follow-up. The expert panel report shall also be published. Under international law, the parties must comply with treaty obligations in good faith. The appreciation of the cabinet is that this process allows parties to a sufficient extent to enforce compliance. Then Mr Beuker asked whether we have a right of veto in the Council or whether it is decided by a simple majority. That depends on the subject. In some cases unanimity is required and in some cases it is not. This depends on the subject under EU law. Mrs Karimi then asked about the role of the Joint Committee in the field of standardisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u743	The Minister's answer is clear, but not complete. When it comes to CETA, what is the decision-making procedure and changes in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u744	What if it's a treaty change?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u745	For example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u746	In the case of a treaty amendment, it is the same as we have now done and as we are actually standing here today. That would also be the case in the event of a treaty amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u747	The question has also been asked in the beginning: if a technical committee makes a recommendation and when that recommendation comes to the Council, do we have a right of veto on it or not, when it comes to CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u748	We are talking about these technical or joint committees, QMV, i.e. Qualified Majority Voting within the Council, which is not unanimity. Then, Mrs Karimi, on the role of the Joint Committee in the harmonisation of standards. I have just answered this question: to discuss possible regulatory cooperation, regulatory cooperation, to explore voluntarily what issues can be worked out in the future and a specialised committee, the forum for regulatory cooperation. The Joint Committee will then be briefed on the progress of discussions in this forum, but the bottom line remains that for changes on the EU side or for new requirements, EU legislative procedures should always be followed. Then there's the Prast c.s. motion. with letter N (35154) on Article 8.10.3 in CETA and the Convention Committees. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The specialized committee may recommend an extension or clarification of the investment standard and may submit it for decision to the CETA Joint Committee. A decision of the Joint Committee shall be taken by common accord. Prior to that date, the Council, acting on a proposal from the European Commission, shall adopt the position to be adopted on behalf of the Union. As a member of the Council, the Netherlands also has a say in the decision-making process. If I interpret it in such a way that I share the decision with your Chamber, so that you can decide on it before the Netherlands votes in the Council, then the answer to the motion is yes. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u749	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u750	Could it also be that the motion would be superfluous, because the commitment has already been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u751	The Minister's smile says enough. I propose that we close the debate now. I thank the Minister. Sorry, Mrs Faber has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u752	Well, it's more about the motion. We would talk about putting it to the vote before voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u753	Yeah, I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-11-eerstekamer-3.u754	I have come to deal with bill 35154. A roll-call vote was requested by Ms Faber on the legislative proposal Adoption of the Broad Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, established in Brussels on 30 October 2016. That's Bill 35154. I suggest we vote on this bill tomorrow after lunch. Then I come to the other bill, 35155. Would one of the Members like to vote on the legislative proposal Adoption of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, established in Brussels on 30 October 2016? Are we going to have a vote? Yeah? I would suggest that this bill should also be voted on tomorrow after lunch. I therefore propose that we vote on the motions that have been tabled. Mrs Faber already indicated that she wanted to put her motion 35154, letter M to the vote before the roll-call vote on the bill. If the bill has already been accepted, or not, then that motion will no longer make sense. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. Tomorrow morning, Tuesday, the meeting will continue with the first term of the Chamber in the debate on the Second occasional Supplementary Budget Defence 2022 (36143), the Second incidental Supplementary Budget Defence Equipment Budget Fund 2022 (36144), the Amending Budget States Defence 2022 (spring note) (36120-X) and the Amending Budget States Defence Equipment Budget Fund 2022 (spring note) (36120-K). I shall suspend the sitting until Tuesday morning 12 July at 8.30 p.m. and wish you all well at home.
