ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35976, the Temporary Law on the National Growth Fund. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak on behalf of both the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the Party of European Socialists. I also have, of course, a number of questions that probably mainly concern the Minister of Finance, but I assume that this can be included in the answer given by the Minister of EZK, who is present here. This is for the record. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Labour Party are pleased that this bill is before us. We regard the National Growth Fund as the political recognition that the government has an important role to play in a sustainable, social market economy. So to speak, the ideas of Mariana Mazzucato, the doctrine of The Entrepreneurial State, are gaining ground after 30 years. And that's very good. The aim of these public investments must ultimately be to make our economy truly sustainable, i.e. CO-free, raw material-poor, circular, regenerative and much more social and inclusive. Distribution of income, knowledge and power. Certainly, Mr President, you recognize the heritage of the Den Uyl cabinet, with our predecessors of PvdA, D66 and PPR at the time. A few members of the CDA were also involved at the time. Who else knows? Mr. Chairman. This is our beckoning perspective. This includes a well-organised budget process, i.e. a budget fund with a legal status. That bill is now before us, and that is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. The establishment of these types of funds requires a clear focus. What should the government invest in? Why does the government have to do that? What should be the clear distinction between this type of expenditure in a fund and investment and the regular budget? The birth of the National Growth Fund is not immediately reassuring in this respect. The former Finance Minister Hoekstra could not clearly mark here in the First Chamber what was actually the political goal, other than the growth of GDP. But that's not a focus. Moreover, it is not in line with what the Netherlands now needs, at this time of transition. Originally, Minister Hoekstra also thought of a variant of a sovereign wealth fund, a kind of superstate investment fund, where there was insufficient focus on the market failure that had to be resolved here, also given the situation of abundant availability of market financing. Mr. Chairman. The debate that followed, also here, had a wonderful dynamic. Big money came, there was hardly any focus, and then a lot of discussion about the governance of the fund. And, of course, the fund had to be free from cuts. That's why you're making a budget fund. That immediately went wrong with the Rutte IV coalition agreement: 660 million is going down. Infrastructure is then taken out of the fund. All this gives some thought to the sustainability of the chosen focus and design of this fund. How does this new cabinet look? I would have liked to ask the Minister of Finance, but ask the Cabinet now, even in the role of Minister of Finance and Guardian of an orderly budgetary policy. Mr. Chairman. With all the appreciation of the political groups on whose behalf I am speaking for the recognition of the investment role of the government: requested are precision and focus precisely! "Why and how the public is used'. We are not reassured yet, and I invite the Minister to make the most of this today. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the broad prosperity. For the groups of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, the transition perspective is leading. Over the last few years, I have been here on several occasions in a debate with the predecessors of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK, arguing that broad prosperity should lead all public policy, not just for this fund. That requires political discipline and persistence, because such a perspective of broad prosperity and its transition is only meaningful if every intervention, every expenditure, every investment, every fiscal facility is chosen, weighed and accounted for the positive contribution to broad prosperity. That is why, three years ago, for example, I advocated, in the direction of Minister Hoekstra, that the millions note should actually make way for a broad prosperity note. Broad prosperity is not primarily a set of indicators and data, which the CBS has been publishing annually for several years at the request of the Grashoff Commission. Broad prosperity should, in the eyes of the political groups I represent here, first and foremost be the central political guidance of the cabinet to design, roll out and justify all public policy within this framework. That, in my opinion, and the groups I represent here, is the perspective that we need: every day political choices on a positive contribution to broad prosperity, now, later, here and elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. We have known for a long time, and I assume that this Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate also knows that the economic model of the Netherlands we have inherited from the past decades is over its expiry date. We make our money using a linear fossil and extraction model. We are moving at a breathtaking pace towards our natural capital, the ecosystems on which our society and economy operate. Today, people are building up an existence with entrepreneurship, with work, with income, with prospects in an economy, which is rapidly eating up its own capital, natural capital, short and powerful. If you do, you'll set course for bankruptcy, and the Minister of Economic Affairs knows it. The transformation that is now needed to get away from this is, of course, phenomenal. It is also deeply a social transition. Everyone must be able to experience this literally. "Just and fair" is called in Brussels, and rightly so. This requires, for example, an inclusive labour market and, for example, an active Minister for Social Affairs, who actively organises the transition process on the labour market. It also calls for a fair cabinet that guarantees a fair distribution of lusts and burdens in this transition. There, for example, the Secretary of State for Fiscal Affairs has to get to work and so on. Mr. Chairman. All this is, of course, a hellish task, which only has the chance of success if the cabinet uses every moment of decision-making with extreme tenacity and discipline to take a next step. In fiscal policy, fiscal policy and all decisions, the question should be: does this contribute to the sustainable and inclusive transition? Does this serve broad prosperity? That's what the political question is supposed to be every day. Mr. Chairman. I put this so strongly because I believe that the cabinet has been acting on this until now, but I hope for a good afternoon. For example, I read this in the answer to our questions about this fund of nearly 20 billion, but I also read it in a letter of 23 May sent to Parliament by Minister Kaag on the elaboration of the concept of broad prosperity. Thank you very much to the Minister of Finance for this letter. That's very good. The cabinet is working on it and so on. That's all fine, but the cabinet is making a data issue up to this moment of broad prosperity. Let there be no misunderstanding: it is. There's gotta be a lot of things going on. It's nice that the CBS and the planning agencies are working on this. That's all helpful. But steering on broad prosperity should be primarily and last but not least the leading political choice of the cabinet, and I do not read that. I read that the planning agencies are now working on a balancing framework. A balancing framework is a political project, not of the Planning Bureau, but of the cabinet itself. Can we expect this political balance around broad prosperity in the forthcoming cabinet millions note? I would like a commitment from the cabinet on this point. Mr. Chairman. That brings me immediately to Article 2 of this bill. It sets out the following objective: to promote sustainable earning. In the House of Representatives this debate has also been held in detail and I have listened carefully to the answers of the Minister of EZK there. That hasn't convinced me yet. In the response here on this side of the Parliament of 30 May, the cabinet says: "Proposals should always have a positive impact on GDP, but also have a positive impact on society." We read a little further on: "A proposal must not conflict with government policy, including the ambitions of sustainability, or with respect to nature and biodiversity." That's what's in the article now. What does this even say? I'd say that's pretty weedy. That's actually an empty formulation, isn't it? Of course, there is no proposal that is contrary to government policy. Of course, the fact that this is expressed explicitly is fine, but it is essentially an empty wording. In addition, and more importantly, it does not explicitly state that all proposals financed by this colossal fund should contribute to the sustainable and inclusive transition, i.e. to reducing the deficits on broad prosperity. It could be, I read, but it doesn't have to. Let me get this straight. Why does the cabinet not choose much more explicitly and more clearly for this implementation of sustainable earning capacity? Sustainable earning capacity is to promote opportunities for developing future economic activity. It must be CO-free, it must be poor in raw materials, it must be circular and it must be regulatory and thus contribute to broad prosperity. That's the job, isn't it? I don't understand why the cabinet doesn't want to take that step like this. I think that would also greatly help the focus of the fund. This is also very important for efficient public spending. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There is now inevitably a great deal of room in the assessment of proposals on sustainable earning capacity, because it fits almost everything. Then it remains desirable to strengthen the objectives of the Fund, as recommended by the General Court of Auditors, the Council of State and previously by the Environment and Infrastructure Council? I say again: focus also helps to effectively deploy scarce public resources. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I have another reason to dwell on Article 2 for so long. In assessing proposals for impact and impact, the Advisory Commission uses SMEA's on related qualitative analysis at the request of the Cabinet. So one wants a theory of change. These SMEs are today mainly common and highly quantitatively applicable to infrastructure projects, but they have been withdrawn from this fund by the government agreement. I am trying to understand what is now the dominant analysis tool for assessing the proposals for knowledge, development and innovation. Can the cabinet explain that? Is it true that quantitative SMEAs in particular are only really applicable to a limited extent? By this I mean that they are co-decision-making on the proposals in the fields of knowledge, development and innovation. If that is the case, what are the instruments that the Consultative Commission will use? Mr. Chairman. This touches on a point that the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks have previously made in writing and recently in the House of Representatives. It was also part of debates here with Wiebes and Hoekstra at the time. If it is then used, we want SMEAs that count on efficient CO prices. The prices that are now being used are from the last WLO of 2016. They are obviously too low, so that does not yield adequate sums. The new WLO, as we read in a letter sent by both ministers in response to questions from GroenLinks-Kamerlid Suzanne Kröger, is only available in 2024. That's awfully late. I understand that there is still a written round of questions on this issue in the House of Representatives, but I would very much appreciate clarity today. It is not really acceptable that we should wait another two years for an update and that in the meantime, as far as she can count, the advisory committee should do so with efficient CO prices from 2016. Mr. Chairman. This point is, of course, broader than just in selecting projects from this fund. It plays for all public projects where this SME system is used with those old efficient CO prices. Here too, the effectiveness of public policy is really at stake. I would think that even though the planning agencies seem to have difficulty finding each other at the WLO, the cabinet has to make the choice that it will be settled by the end of this year and that the budget 2023 can start with a good appraisal of the efficient CO prices, updated and well. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The groups of GroenLinks and the Labour Party have asked on previous occasions for a better and more insightful landscape of public funds, including this National Growth Fund. The letter that was published about it yesterday, thank you for it, gives some insight. I think it would be wise to send this letter to the next Committee on Finance shortly, because it is about far more funds than just this national budget fund. To sum up, it is more than EUR 80 billion. We all have to think about that for a while, I think. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, I have three points. I would think that a thorough analysis is always required for all funds to support the usefulness and necessity of using public funds or guarantees. I understand that the letter from the Minister of Finance, which I have just referred to, is now mainly about the type of expenditure or financing and there it makes a clear distinction between what the fund does, but that does not relieve the cabinet of the obligation to carry out or carry out these analyses. I would like to have a firm commitment from the cabinet in this case, the Minister of Finance. The second point, Mr President. The Minister's letter focuses on Invest-NL and the four major funds, including this National Growth Fund. But there are many more. The various reports of the General Court of Auditors in recent years on various cut and nature budget funds, for example, see the report from 2019, which was specifically about revolving funds, should really be concluded that there can be added value in cleaning up and merging. Is the cabinet or the finance minister going to work on this? I can imagine that many departments are not waiting for this immediately. Could we help the Minister of Finance this afternoon with a motion for a resolution? I'd like an answer. If that is the case, then we are happy to be of assistance. Mr President, the third point. This synergy, this coherence, certainly applies to Invest-NL and the fund in question; the letter also talks about this. I understand, at least as I understand it, that there is good cooperation and that RVO is also helping to lead requests for investment and support to the right point of contact. Wouldn't it make sense, I ask the cabinet, to work on a kind of public investment bank where different types of funding are brought together? For example Transition-NL, the Transitionbank or a state investment bank for broad prosperity and sustainable earning; make it something beautiful. The essence is that it is not the type of financing that is the distinction, but the indication of the institution and the corresponding fund, and that different types of money can be sought in that declaration, depending on the need and the reasons for the analyses. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion. In the written treatment, also in the Lower House, the issue of intellectual property arising from projects developed with the NGF money was discussed. Unfortunately, the GroenLinks groups and the Labour Party are very sorry to hear that, despite the 'judgement Chamber' on the part of the cabinet, the amended amendment by Mr Leijten has been rejected. What now, I ask the Minister of EZK. Can I assume the cabinet is just being vigilant here? The development of corona vaccines and the distribution of public risks and the private profits from this episode really hurt the eyes. Shouldn't it just be the principle of this fund? Indeed, it actually applies to all the funds that all projects financed by the fund should in principle be open source in terms of intellectual property? Because only such a route ensures maximum exploitation of acquired knowledge in society and economy. Please respond. Mr. Chairman. The House of Representatives also discussed the financial benefits that companies can derive from publicly funded knowledge. The amendment tabled to that effect in respect of item No. 13 by Mrs Leijten has unfortunately been rejected. We very much regret that too. What is the general line of the cabinet now? Last Friday's letter didn't read anything about it. Should all support provided to business through funds often be for very good reasons, otherwise we will not have to apply the principle of public-private profit-sharing? What's against it? What is the doctrine that the cabinet is following here? I'd like to hear that from this minister today. Mr President, last but not least. I ask the cabinet about the advisory committee and the routing of proposals following the adoption of this bill. At the moment, the departments are submitting the proposals, from which the advisory committee has to make a choice. It is not known what was submitted to the departments and how the decision was made there. A question, however: why did that happen? Why don't you make what's being filed transparent and what a department does with it? The routing at the advisory committee is then transparent. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal will thus make this procedure different, because field parties can now go directly to the committee for funding. Departments may also submit proposals. As far as we are concerned, the first is of course fine. The latter may be the case, but the question is how the departments produce these proposals. Can the government explain that further? Are the departmental proposals their own initiative, in response to requests from field parties or a combination of both? And how does the cabinet prevent ministries from redirecting projects that they actually wanted or would have to finance from their own budget to applications for the National Growth Fund so that they free up money for other projects on their own budget? Can they then come under the criteria of broad prosperity and therefore be less tested? What's the government's lead appointment here? Mr. Chairman. That actually brings me back to the beginning of my speech. More focus would also do this National Growth Fund a great service. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy will be able to make a full contribution to this important legislative proposal this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. You also spoke on behalf of Mr Crone of the Labour Party. I now give the floor to Mr Van Strien, who will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The aim of the National Growth Fund is to provide financial resources to increase sustainable earning capacity, as I read in the law. With this kind of incomprehensible elitist left-wing language, we PVVs are always on our guard immediately, because we see every day the consequences of the sustainability policy of this cabinet. Like energy poverty, already in 1.5 million families. Raging inflation. According to Eurostat's latest figures, Dutch inflation is no less than 11.9% and therefore the third highest in the European Union. Only in a few mini-states such as Estonia and Lithuania did prices rise even more sharply than we did. Families who fall into poverty and elderly people whose income has been structurally frozen for years. Mr. Chairman. What would really be the objective or rather the purpose of this fund, I wondered. So I Googled on "earning power." Then I come to all kinds of injury attorneys who are willing to help injury victims, i.e. victims who have lost all or part of the ability to work. On the same page, I also come across circular agriculture, where most farmers do not have the ability to earn a living themselves, without subsidies, and therefore some extra earning capacity is welcome. But these two examples do not seem to apply to this law, because your problem must, if I understand correctly, be at least EUR 30 million large if you are to be allowed to eat from this row. If you google on "sustainable earning power" now, you don't understand it at all anymore, because then you will only end up with all kinds of government organizations that are improving the world. In short, a few nice examples mentioned by the Minister could perhaps be enlightening to understand exactly what this fund is for. And then please give examples of investment opportunities that cannot be helped with the nitrogen fund, the climate fund or Invest-NL. These funds do not give us such a warm feeling, by the way. The fact that in the response to a question from the SP it is stated that the relationship between the National Growth Fund, Invest-NL and other funds is further addressed in a letter sent to Parliament only during June. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another concern of my group is that the National Growth Fund specifically focuses on investments with a public interest which, while serving the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands, cannot achieve sufficient private returns to be financed through regular channels. The fund has no revolving character and no return objective. If you withdraw tax money from society for this purpose, i.e. without a return target, that could otherwise be spent on consumption and investment with a substantial return, you reduce the GDP of the future. In my group's view, then, you are being very unwise. This is certainly true at a time when an energy crisis and a booming inflation seem to be followed by a severe recession, as has always been the case in the past. In any case, it is contrary to the ruling that the National Growth Fund aims to increase the GDP that the Netherlands can generate structurally in the long term. In any case, I cannot imagine in any way how this fund's commitment to investment without return objectives should lead to the strengthening of that economy. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is also useful to check when this fund was created. That was about three years ago, under the previous cabinet. It happened after years of austerity. The average household income has been far behind the rest of Europe for some 12 years now. So it happened at a time when there was never anything for the citizen. At that time, the government fucked up the money against the plinths. And the interest rate was negative due to years of active intervention and manipulation by the European Central Bank. At that point, the previous cabinet thought: we should think about something. And yes, the ordinary citizen, the taxpayer, that is the last thing this cabinet and previous cabinets were thinking about. So a fund was created. No, a number of funds were devised, of which this is one. And then the problems were made up for which these funds had to provide a solution. In the meantime, inflation is falling apart. Interest rates are slowly following, because, o, o, if Frankfurt raises interest rates, southern Europe goes bankrupt. But in the end, interest rates will also go up sharply. And it is precisely now that we need to approve this fund, at least a policy-neutral conversion into a departmental budget. In any case, we know that a considerable number of jobs are going to be created, namely a large number of additional civil servants and hiring staff. That's all I need. The number of government officials has grown from 111,000 to 131,000 over the last four years. That is an increase of 18.5%, while the external hire grew from 1.3 billion to 2.3 billion: an increase of 78%, as I read in the newspaper on Saturday. My next question is therefore whether the Minister can indicate how many employees and consultants are involved in this fund in total or are going to be involved. How many of these will be charged to the fund and how much will be charged to the regular budgets of Finance and Economic Affairs? Mr. Chairman. From these questions, which I would like to await, you can conclude that my group is not yet warmed up for this total waste of money, as we see it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch government, with borrowed money, creates an investment fund of 20 billion. The government as an investor together with market players, although additional to the market, yet pushing the market and private business a certain direction, not through regulation but with public money. On this scale, that is a novum and a sign that the ideological panels are shifting away from the idea that it is best to leave as much as possible to the market. Away from the neoliberal idea that the state is mainly there to give the expansion drive of the market ample job or to set the frameworks within which the free market can flourish. Indeed, in other areas, market thinking goes beyond neoliberalism without delay. However, that does not mean that socialists are necessarily in the right direction. Because the key question is whether that governing and investing government exercises that role primarily for the benefit of society, the public interest, or also, and above all, to help the capital. In short, do investments really benefit the collective rather than private interests? That is also the question that lies ahead of this bill in the eyes of the SP. The SP Group is not opposed to the instrument of an investment fund. At a historically low interest rate he still is, even though he is now running again on... it is not a bad idea at all that the government lends money for long-term social benefits. Our country faces major challenges, including the climate transition. Our knowledge-based economy certainly also benefits from additional investment in education, as well as in innovation and development. These are objectives that my group can also endorse. But the question remains whether the Growth Fund will then be the appropriate means and, if so, whether it will be properly used. Can the Minister once again give her views on the added value of an investment fund? Mr. Chairman. It is good that the government is now bringing forward an institution law in accordance with Article 2.11 of the Compatibility Act for the already ongoing Growth Fund. This also increases parliamentary involvement in the design of the fund. That's the way it's supposed to be. But precisely because it formalises this, it is important that it is done and that, on the basis of this institutional law, we have a budget fund that we are sure will be able to pass the critical test for my group in the future, namely that investment will benefit our broad prosperity and that revenue generated from public money will remain public. My group still has a lot of questions and concerns about this. Firstly, the legislative proposal and the explanatory statement make it clear that growth in the name of the budget fund to be set up is primarily defined in terms of GDP growth: the aim of the fund is to contribute to the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands. And although Mr Van Strien is mostly associated with climate policy, the explanatory statement states that this is about earning capacity "as measured by a quantitative estimate of the impact of an investment proposal on gross domestic product." My group believes that this one-sided focus on economic growth, measured solely by GDP, is too restrictive and a missed opportunity to make much more explicit use of the broad prosperity as an objective of all economic policies. Here I can also fully endorse Mr Crone's previous speech. Can the Minister explain again why this was not chosen? The answer to our questions and those of other groups clearly shows that the budget fund will not be able to accept proposals that will not lead to higher GDP growth but will promote broad social prosperity. But why not, I ask the Minister. What else should it be about than that broad prosperity? Bbp growth is at best a part of it, a means, but it's not the only part or means. However, this is the only means for this fund of 20 billion. Mr. Chairman. In particular, within the research, development and innovation pillar, there is a risk that public investment will lead to private profits. But what is funded by public money must also remain public in the first place, so knowledge and innovation generated by public money from the Growth Fund cannot be shielded and privatised through patents and patents. That is really unacceptable to my group. How's the Minister gonna take care of this now? This has been asked for earlier, including in the House of Representatives, but my group has not yet been reassured by the answers. The Minister replied that it was investment with a public interest. However, that does not rule out the fact that the public interest is not fully realised because part of the proceeds of the investment are still privately appropriated. As far as we are concerned, the principle that the benefits of what is publicly funded should also be and should remain public should be enshrined in this institutional law. Why wasn't this chosen, I ask the Minister. And if private profits result from them, then they simply have to be repaid. Amendments to that effect, tabled by the SP Group in the House of Representatives, Mr Vendrik has already referred to it. Another bigger question with regard to this bill concerns the relationship between this investment fund and all the other funds that we already have, or will soon have, if it is up to this government. We already had Invest-NL and there is the climate fund and the nitrogen fund. This raises the question of how these funds all relate to each other and whether there is not too much overlap. This is clearly not an easy question for the government to answer. This question was already asked during the debate in the Lower House and also in the written procedure in this Chamber, by my group and others, but the Minister remained guilty of the answer first. Only at the eleventh hour, this weekend, finally came the letter promised on this subject. To be honest, this letter raises new questions for my group and, to some extent, reinforces the concerns outlined above. The relationship with Invest-NL remains unclear. Both funds finance projects with social added value for which market funding is not available, at least that is the idea. Only private parties at Invest-NL have to repay the capital with interest, while the Growth Fund is a subsidy. Then it seems clear to me at which point a company is looking for funding for a project, or at least, where it comes first. The government also sees this problem, as does the Growth Fund Advisory Council, but we have to wait and see whether this problem will be resolved properly in practice. How the relationship with the climate fund is explained by the Minister only reinforces the image that the Growth Fund is really primarily focused on increasing GDP. Again, that raises the question of how far the Growth Fund will always contribute to this broad prosperity. When it comes to the climate and energy transition, my group is also left with the question of how the subsidy instrument relates to the instruments of pricing and standards. The latter should simply be the starting point. My group has made this point several times since this cabinet took office. In addition, it is conceivable that you can provide additional funding, for example for the development of sustainable technology that would not otherwise be developed, but that social added value must always be at the forefront. In short, my group still has a lot of questions about the legislative proposal and is not convinced of the points that are important to us. But first we look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. On 15 December 2020, in a debate of only one time limit of only 40 minutes, this House debated a debate that our group had managed to force with a lot of strings and strangles on the institution law National Growth Fund, which sank 20 billion euros of taxpayers' money. One of the most amazing things that I have experienced in my three years of membership of the First Chamber is that this little debate on a fundamental form of state capitalism with enormous financial implications has been raffled off in this First Chamber, which, according to some people, should, above all, examine the care taken by legislation. At the time, we forced a roll-call vote on this in order to protect the Netherlands from this misstep, but it should not benefit. This green grabbelton of 20 billion euros for the connections of the Hague incrowd had to and would come. The National Graai Fund, I called it at the time. "Money Looking for Project Fund": that would also be a good name. In the meantime, since this mini-debate on the National Growth Fund, the Rutte cabinet has gone a lot further along the path of state capitalism. The Prime Minister informed us during the General Political Reviews in this Chamber, in February this year, as to whether it is true that all the state funds together, the nitrogen fund, the climate fund, the Invest-NL fund, the Invest International fund... We did not hear that from the previous speakers, but we also have that. We also have all kinds of provincial funds, because the province thinks: if the national government does, so should we. I asked the Prime Minister whether the total amount is now going towards the EUR 100 billion. The Prime Minister said: "Mr Otten is right. If you count everything, you will indeed reach 100 billion." The Netherlands under Rutte is gradually starting to show attractions from a country with a regime in its after-days that tries to divide as many goodies among friends as possible, while the population is allowed to bite on an ever smaller scale. These billions should be used for tax reform, with a significant increase in lower and middle income tax reductions, so that work will be more rewarded and more work will also be paid more, in this part-time wahalla country that has become the Netherlands, because more work does not now pay. That's a recipe for national growth. The Executive Board of De Nederlandsche Bank also issued the same recommendation yesterday, that work and more work should pay more in this country. That's what you're going to do with growth, not by letting civil servants distribute billions. EUR 100 billion to state funds, growth funds, nitrogen funds, climate funds, while the Dutch people can figure it out with exploding energy prices and rapidly rising inflation. Farmers are devastated by years of mispolicy with Natura 2000 stamp areas, which the Netherlands is now very much cutting into their fingers. The agricultural sector is deliberately turned upside down by the VVD, which claims to be there for the middle class and SMEs. I hear Loek Hermans' daughter say it this weekend. Mr. Chairman. When I recently asked a D66 senator "when are you actually going to merge with the VVD?', Following the merger between PvdA and GroenLinks, this D66 senator told me: oh, a merger with the VVD is not necessary at all; the VVD does exactly what we want anyway. And that, of course, is also the reality. We still have a number of questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs about the National Growth Fund. First of all, who is ultimately responsible for the National Growth Fund? Is that the Minister of Economic Affairs, or is that the Minister of Finance? We also asked this during the examination of the bill and received the following answer. I quote: "The Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister of Finance are joint fund managers. They decide unanimously. Neither minister has a decisive vote." So every minister has a veto, but no one is ultimately responsible. A recipe for failure: to manage EUR 20 billion, without a specific ruler being ultimately responsible. This morning some of us had an informal meeting with Professor Elzinga, professor of State Law and expert in administrative law of the University of Groningen. He also had the observation that the Dutch government is very fond of 'I quote 'the search for responsibilities'. We also see a strong example of this in the governance of this National Growth Fund. How does the Minister see this going to work in practice? In their reply to the input of the First Chamber, ministers indicated that the directors and departments themselves did not have sufficient expertise and that they therefore decided to select members of an Advisory Committee on National Growth Fund in order to make a good assessment of the contribution of the proposals submitted to the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands. How can you, if you say you don't know how to judge proposals, know how to select people who do? We would like to hear from the Minister how this selection was made and what selection criteria have been used. This Advisory Committee on the National Growth Fund, which is going to determine where the money is going or at least to advise on it, is also assisted by external experts, the Minister states. What experts are these? I saw something about planning agencies, the Planning Office for the Environment, but there were also other experts. Which ones are they and how are they selected? Mr. Chairman. Then we come to the question of how to ensure that party political interests, special interests, well-organised lobby groups and all kinds of other conflicts of interest in the allocation of the billions of the Growth Fund are adequately, clearly and transparently seen before the money from the Growth Fund is allocated and distributed. The Minister speaks of six types of interests to be identified, but she only mentions two: personal financial interests and interests of the organisation to which they are attached. What are the other four types of interests the Minister is talking about? Are there any other interests that need to be identified and how does the Minister ensure transparency in this area? That, I think, is essential. Whether you are for or against the Growth Fund, it must be very transparent what the different interests of the various people are. We are talking about a lot of taxpayers' money. Mr. Chairman. Sustainable earning ability. How long is the period over which we can measure that was our question. The Minister's answer was that we should think of a time horizon of 20 to 30 years. In our view, this is an unworkable long period, with the danger that projects that do not perform well will endlessly make new requests for more money from the Growth Fund. Then they say, Have patience; in 30 years the profit will come; give us some extra money; everything will be all right. That's even a scenario that comes across a lot in the private sector. If the funding requirements are a bit disappointing, these kinds of projects often come with the story that there is only a little more money to be given, that the dip is a little deeper than thought, but that it will be okay. But the private sector does not wait 30 years for this. If that doesn't work after a few years, it stops. The danger of this extremely long period is therefore that more and more money goes to non-performance projects. How does the Minister intend to prevent that? The next question we have to the Minister is what exactly is the status of the current applications? Are there any funds allocated now? If so, how many exactly and on which projects? Can the Minister give us an overview of this? We receive this preferably prior to its first-term response. What are the conditions for these awards and what is their status? In addition to investing in projects, the National Growth Fund will also provide grants, we understand from the Minister. How much money are we talking about here? The Minister stated in his reply that the States-General had no influence on a grant once granted by the National Growth Fund. As far as we are concerned, that is another reason why we should abandon this vague plan. Moreover, we can now use our billions better in the purchasing power slaughter that the government is currently causing in society. So, how much subsidy is involved and what part of this 20 billion is subsidy? How does the Minister intend to fund the billions of this fund? In a scenario of negative interest rates or 0% interest rates on government loans, this was, in our opinion, not a good idea. This has just been discussed by a previous speaker. You could have borrowed good money then, and we advised you to do so: borrow 100 billion at 0% interest rates, for example, and use it to finance a tax reform so that extra growth comes out of it. And then you pay back that loan with infused money from an economy that's much bigger. That was our plan, but unfortunately that plan was not followed. It has been decided to put it into a growth fund. Those were our first questions to the Minister before this deadline. We will have more later in the exchange with the Minister, but leave it at that for now. We look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u10	Thanks to Mr. Otten. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It'll be shorter than the time before me. We're talking about a growth fund. This gives the impression that growth, growth and growth are necessary. Growth, growth, growth, however, leads, as we have noticed, to gray, gray, gray. We're grabbing the planet empty, and that's been through to this government by now. In order to continue adoring growth, growth and growth, the greenwashing word has now been invented. I quote the Minister: 'The key to uniting economic activity and climate neutrality is decoupling economic activity and greenhouse gas emissions'. Decoupling is now the magic word. And we swear by green innovations like methadone for our growth addiction. But does decoupling work? Isn't it just a magic word, but also a bedtime fairy tale? Two years ago, the European Environment Agency published a comprehensive study to uncover the fairy tale. I quote, and it's a long quote, because it's important that we get it right. The quote is thus: "Given what is at stake, careful assessment is needed to determine whether the scientific bases behind this decoupling hypothesis are robust or not. This report provides an overview of the empirical and theoretical literature to assess the validity of this hypothesis. The conclusions are both overwhelmingly clear and sobering. Not only is there no empirical evidence of the existence of the decoupling of economic growth and environmental impact on a scale that is close to the scale needed to cope with environmental degradation, but also, and perhaps even more importantly, such decoupling does not seem to happen in the future." So there's no decoupling. And again the Minister's quote: "The key to uniting economic activity and climate neutrality is decoupling." The key! Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister wiser than the scientists to whom the European Environment Agency refers? On what scientific reports does the government's story support that we can continue to grow as we innovate? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The next question follows on from questions that I also came across implicitly or explicitly in the stories of previous speakers' contributions to the debate. Why are only projects eligible to increase earning capacity? Why should projects that lead to sustainability, but not directly to economic growth, fall outside the scope of this Growth Fund? Mr. Chairman. Take the interventions in the agricultural sector that have now been presented by the cabinet. Does that increase earning power? No, it's not like that at first sight. Is it a project that leads to an economic, social and environmentally friendly sustainable future for the earth and for present and future generations? Right? I quoted here part of the legal definition of sustainable earning in the bill. What does the Minister think? Would an investigation into the need for the intervention now proposed in the agricultural sector fall within the scope of the Growth Fund? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Everything is related to how the definition of "sustainable earning capacity" is to be read in the law. From the Minister's answers, I understand that a time horizon is maintained for up to 30 years. Does this mean that projects that lead to less earning capacity in the short term, but which are needed to guarantee a viable Netherlands in the long term of 30 years, fall within the definition of "sustainable earning capacity"? Here it becomes important how the definition should be read in the law. "A gross domestic product that the Netherlands can generate on a long-term structural basis," the legal definition begins. But this definition continues with the following: "in view of an economic, social and environmentally sustainable future for the earth and for present and future generations." "With an eye for it," my question is how the government explains this. Should we read this as "subject to that"? As an administrative lawyer, I note that the legislative text requires at least that account be taken of the importance of an economic, social and environmental sustainable future for the earth and for present and future generations. This interest must therefore be taken into account. Is this true? If so, is the Minister prepared to give that explanation to the Advisory Committee and to implement it in further rules as referred to in Article 8? So "with the eye for" should be read as "subject to that." Mr. Chairman. We're going to invest with the Growth Fund. The starting point is that we get something in return. According to the Minister's replies, the fund has no revolver and no return target. What we get in return is on another plane. With the increase in our national income, the Minister sees the debt as also increasing the tax revenue for the government. In response to questions from our group, the Minister points out the following. "Growth contributes to the financing of public services, and the energy and climate transition also requires large investments," said the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In order to free up funds for financing public services and transition investments, it is necessary that our gross national product continues to increase. Is it not possible to achieve the same result without growth, but with a fairer tax distribution? Mr. Chairman. The number of super rich is increasing. Oxfam calculated that 62 new billionaires in the food sector were added to the pandemic world-wide, while 263 million people fell into poverty. I would like to hear from the Minister or without the growth of national income, but with a fairer burden-sharing, it is not possible to achieve comparable revenues for public services and investment. Mr. Chairman. The greener the technology, the more it uses essential scarce minerals. In the foreseeable future, demand will be higher than supply. Does the Growth Fund take that into account? My group asked this question in the written round but did not receive a satisfactory answer. That is why I ask the Minister again. I'm just gonna build on those scarce minerals. In December 2021, the Chamber adopted the Prast motion, which calls on the Government to ensure that Invest International takes only initiatives, which are clearly established that no use is made of cobalt mined in Congo. Is the Minister prepared to give the same condition as binding in the case of funding from the National Growth Fund? Mr President, I am coming to the end. I'm joining the advisory committee. Mr Otten has already asked questions about it. The members have a great power. I note from the reply that the starting point is that the cabinet does not accept proposals that have received a negative opinion from the advisory committee. I would almost like to say to Mr Otten: if that is the starting point, then it seems that these ministers are not even involved anymore. But what about when a positive advice has been given? On what grounds can the cabinet decide not to honour the proposal? I'd like a response from the Minister. The members of the advisory committee often have a background in business, as I understood from the Minister's answers. This raises the question of how to prevent conflicts of interest. I do not read in Article 9 of the legislative proposal that there should be binding rules on conflicts of interest. Isn't that strange, I ask the Minister? In the answer to Question 29, Mr Otten also quoted in that reply that there is a kind of procedure, in order to exclude members with interests from taking part in an assessment. Who made those rules? Is the Minister prepared to submit a draft regulation to the Chamber on this issue? Can the Minister undertake to do this? I'd like a response. I come to my last question. The members of the advisory committee have a major influence on the selection of projects. This means, in my view, that they should be appointed on the basis of a pre-established and approved profile by Parliament. The Chamber should be able to check whether a desired mix of expertise and experience can be guaranteed from a social point of view. Is the Minister prepared to admit this? I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 3:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u13	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 35976, the Temporary Law on the National Growth Fund. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just trying to sort out the folders. In the end, this is one of the biggest challenges of this profession. I would like to thank Members for their contributions to the National Growth Fund. The first objective of this fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u15	Are you going to do it on the basis of a number of cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u16	I was trying to sort it out. I'll mention the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u17	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u18	We have blocks on the purpose of the fund, the operation of the fund and the implementation of the fund and one with the other questions. I will not give a very long introduction to this fund; we have spoken on several occasions, including in your Chamber, about the National Growth Fund, its purpose and its importance. What is now before us is a bill to regulate this too, because that had not happened before. Its regulation in this legislative proposal also creates a subsidy route, sets out the objective of the fund very clearly and gives a little more certainty, clarity and transparency to the implementation of the fund. That is a good thing. Suppose the bill will be approved by your Chamber this summer, then we can also make the next round of the NGF take place on the basis of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President, for not having to wait until the end of the block this time. That was actually a question I hadn't asked. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister brings that up. We dealt with the law in 2020 in the Lower House. What exactly is the reason for this new legislation? Didn't like the old law, or wasn't it good enough? Why was this floor hit necessary? Have any mistakes been made in the first law? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u20	Thank you to Mr Otten for the question. It's good to make that sharp. This law actually does two things. Firstly, a fund is being set up for this bill. Secondly, some of the issues that have been shared over the past period, including the General Court's concern to tighten up the Fund's objective, are taken into account in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u21	I note, therefore, that the first legislative proposal was not entirely sound and that a new law has now been passed, partly through comments from the Court of Auditors. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u22	First of all, it was important to set up a fund, so as to highlight very clearly the Growth Fund, that also to make it transparent. What is the budget, what are the expenditure? It is also necessary to submit it to the procedures in the Chamber which apply to such a fund. That was the main reason for the bill. In addition, we have used the moment to include the observations of the General Court. But that's more subsidiary, I'd say. It was a good time to take this. Actually, I hadn't even started the first block. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr van Apeldoorn and Mr Vendrik have asked a lot of questions, and I think that this is also quite right about the purpose of the fund. Among others, Mr Vendrik asked if he had understood correctly that it is not now said that it should contribute to sustainable transitions, but that it should contribute. It has to be sustainable. That is, of course, a complicated statement, because what is it? Actually, we're saying it's made up of two elements. A project should contribute structurally to earning capacity, to structural GDP, in a sustainable way. But Mr Vendrik and also Mr Van Apeldoorn, and I also think Mr Nicolaï, asked very explicitly what that means. Do you then weigh the social transitions, or is it under the condition of? We have talked about this for quite some time. That's why it took a while. Actually, I can conclude that it is: under the condition of. This is also the case in cabinet policy. It's under the terms of government policy. We have mentioned very clearly the pillars. These pillars contribute to the transitions. Projects must take place within these frameworks. If we look at which projects have been awarded and to which projects have been approved, you will see that they also contribute to the social transition. I would almost say that these frameworks will do their job. We have also been asked how this is being tested. How do you test that such a proposal generates more social benefits than costs? The Advisory Committee shall publish its deliberations. They're public, you can see them, and you can read them. It uses the theory of change. You look at the change you're working towards and the steps to get there. That's a sketch you're sketching, and based on that, an assessment is made. To a large extent, this is indeed high quality now that the infra projects have been taken out. It'll actually just get more quality. The committee is trying to get as close as possible to a real assessment of the impact of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u23	Let me return to the precise reading of Article 2. That's what the Minister just mentioned. If I understand her correctly, she says it's actually there. But I don't read it. So I find this an uncomfortable answer. I therefore invite the Minister to help us with this further. I repeat what I said in the first term: I read'sustainable earning power'. But that could be anything, I guess. Subsequently, projects must not conflict with government policy, but that "not conflicting" is not specifically appointed. My point, to get it equally sharp, was that it should not be "not contradictory', but that it should contribute to the objectives set by the cabinet in the areas of CO, nitrogen, food, transition, circular, poor raw materials, etc. etc. But it doesn't say that. That is why the Minister's explanation in this debate matters, so that we have a good understanding of what should actually be the focus of the fund. I would therefore ask the Minister once again to help me read Article 2. Maybe I can give you an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u24	But then it'll be a bit of a deadline. An interruption is a short question. Sorry, Mr. Vendrik, but you've been at it for a while now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u25	Then I'm not going to give an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u26	Shall we just ask the minister what the answer is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u27	It is described in the bill as it is described: it should not be contrary to government policy. However, in the wording 'I did not mention the text of Article 2 here, but it says that it is necessary to contribute to the objectives set by the cabinet. In fact, we say the same thing. Your question was whether it could not have been formulated more firmly. In that sense I actually annotate what it says, namely that it means that it also contributes to those transitions. Sometimes that's in a direct sense. If I look at the list of proposals, for example, a hydrogen project will be supported by the committee. On the other hand, however, it is also about improving digital training. There is a slightly more indirect connection to the transitions, but the connection is there. That is why this cautious wording has been chosen. But it all contributes to the transitions we have to do in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u28	The question is whether we should read Article 2 in such a way that any project that is considered by the advisory committee and which is likely to eventually be supported by the cabinet should explicitly contribute to the transitions that the cabinet considers politically desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u29	Each project should contribute to the transitions that occur in the pillars mentioned in the National Growth Fund. I have to be careful with my wording, because we also have a climate fund. The climate fund is primarily intended to enable transitions in the climate, including the energy transition. When we talk about the pillars of knowledge, innovation, R&D and research, these are the pillars that this fund contributes to and what we are talking about. We do that in the perspective of the transitions. In my opinion, therefore, the care in the wording is very relevant. In my view, we mean the same thing, because it has to contribute to the transitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u30	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u31	Well, then I'm gonna stick around for a while. I welcome the Minister's explanation, at least that is what I think at the moment, when I try to listen to her, but I really do not read it that way. I don't read the answers like that either. The Minister makes a comparison with the climate fund. I find that rather complicated in this debate from this side, because we do not yet have a clear view of it. As I understand it, this National Growth Fund is intended for projects whose market application is not yet under discussion. As I understand it, the climate fund is intended to cover expenditure in which market application, the conversion of existing production processes in industry and elsewhere in the economy is indeed involved. So the climate fund, as I understand it, operates in a different part of the transition than the National Growth Fund. This means that these transitions should also be central, as far as I am concerned, to the National Growth Fund, so that it goes on as it were. The only difference between the funds in this case is that research and development requires a different type of money, without explicitly expecting and counting on...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mr. Vendrik, I'm gonna stop you right now. I'm sorry. The Minister has stated three rules of her first-term reply. She had started with the purpose of the fund. There are now five interruptions, if I count Mr Otten. You can also choose to give the Minister a chance to explain the purpose. If you are going to repeat all the questions that have just been asked, then we are going to repeat all the first deadlines we have just had. We can also ask the Minister to do this block first and see which questions are answered. Then I will give you every opportunity to repeat unanswered questions in the event of interruption. Isn't that an idea? I am looking first at Mr Vendrik, because he was busy interrupting. I didn't want to cut him off, but I'd like to ask him...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u33	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't mind looking after this moment, but I'm responding to what the Minister says. I understood from her reply just now that she was actually going to another point. That is why I responded to the point made in Article 2 and how it should be interpreted. But I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u34	Mr President, perhaps I may have a moment, because I think I will deal with some of the questions, at least that is what I hope. This fund has been set up because it has been pointed out in a number of places by a number of experts, but also by the IMF and the European Commission, that the Netherlands is lagging behind in terms of innovation and investment in R&D and research. That is what this fund has been set up for, to ensure that we strengthen the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands. What is also a learning point that we have received from other evaluations of previous funds is that we have to beware of making funds too broad. That is why we formulated it as we formulated it. This fund is designed to stimulate research, development and innovation, knowledge development and in the previous phase also infrastructure, and to provide funding for what could not be supported by the market, so that we can strengthen that earning capacity in the Netherlands. We have explicitly added in this bill that this must also be in line with government policy. I think it is right, therefore, that I should add that Mr Vendrik and this bill are not separate in terms of expectation. You can see that in the application by the advisory committee. If you look at the proposals that have been accepted, I think that is fully in line with the intentions of the cabinet policy and at least we have embraced them. It is also intended to contribute effectively to these transitions, but it is aimed at those pillars that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u35	I just wanted to verify what I heard the Minister say in reply to a question from Mr Vendrik and I thought Van Apeldoorn, but also to my question. Do I understand now that the Minister says, "with an eye to it," can you actually read as "subject to that"? That's what I heard the Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u36	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u37	If that is the case, then I think that Mr Vendrik's problem has also been solved, because that is where the essence lies, and in the second paragraph there are a lot of things that will come to mind. But the essence is, I think, in the first paragraph. At least it's in Article 1, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u38	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u39	It is clear to Mr Nicolaï, but not quite me. Article 1 does say 'for the sake of' and then a list is given. At the end, it says "an environmentally sustainable future." I think that 'environmentally sustainable' is a bit of a weird formulation. Is the Minister now saying that that should be read as "under the terms of"? This means that all projects must contribute to an environmentally friendly, sustainable future. What does that mean in concrete terms? On the one hand, I have the impression that the Minister is trying, as it were, to go beyond what is contained in Articles 1 and 2. On the other hand, it reiterates that it is mainly about earning power. So I'm a little confused about it after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u40	It says "for the sake of it." We had a debate on what 'in view' means. I said that you can read that as "under conditions." We are therefore doing so 'for the sake of' or 'under the conditions of'. You can make the strings behind it applicable to what we are aiming for. Earlier in the questions, the discussion dealt with the sustainable earning ability versus the goals related to the wider prosperity and achievement of those goals in the transitions. I would like to say that they are not in conflict with each other. In fact, we see a lot of examples where the two are mutually reinforcing. That is why I said that it is not such a difficult step to say that it is 'under conditions'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u41	To get it even clearer: the Minister says that it is about contributions to transitions as formulated under the pillars. Can the Minister explain or explain what transitions we are talking about? I believe that there is some confusion about this, or at least some of it is about different transitions in this little interruption debate that we are now having. It's important to get that sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u42	But now I'm gonna repeat myself. The aim of this fund is to contribute to the sustainable earning capacity under the conditions that it also supports the cabinet objectives. That is my free translation of what is contained in Article 2. That doesn't conflict with each other. In fact, that strengthens each other. We are doing this in the National Growth Fund over two pillars at the moment, namely research, development and innovation and knowledge development. The proposals that have now been accepted in the second round are about high-tech materials, for example sustainable materials.nl. It's about recycling plastic. This directly contributes to the transition we have to deal with climate and raw materials. For example, it's about cellular agriculture. That is also a project that directly contributes to this and I can continue to do so for a while, because in fact all these projects are so. The core of the proposal was research, development and innovation and the specific questions related to it. As a consequence, they are applied in the transitions we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u43	The lack of clarity as to exactly what this fund is intended for has been going on for a long time. The cabinet is obviously aware of this. That is why a letter has been promised, which has been sent to the House of Representatives this weekend. I would just like to quote a bit from that letter: 'In view of the objectives and the projects that have so far been awarded to the National Growth Fund, there seems to be more chance of overlap between the National Growth Fund and the Climate Fund than between the National Growth Fund and the Transition Fund. National Growth Fund projects can be important for achieving climate goals." If I read such a sentence, I can only conclude that the cabinet does not know exactly what the purpose of this fund is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u44	I'm going to repeat myself: that's not the case. There is indeed an objective. I'm going to repeat it again: strengthening the earning capacity of the Netherlands, but not sec. We do so in the light of government policy and the choices made in the coalition agreement. So it's for improving the earning position. We have something to do there too, because we are not doing enough. You can see that there is a market failure in research and development and innovation. There's a lot here that doesn't beach abroad. If we want to participate in the future and want future generations to live in a good country, then we need to invest. This fund has been set up to make that possible. We then set out a direction in this direction. A by choosing the pillars on which these proposals should be based, namely research, development and innovation or knowledge development. Those are the two pillars. We are doing so in the light of the ambitions we described in the coalition agreement for these transitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u45	The sentences I have just read out and the Minister's response to my question on this can only lead to the conclusion, in my view, that the ambiguity exists and that it will be used by both ministers in the future to simply do with it what is best for them. That's the only conclusion I can draw. I'd like to hear from the Minister if it's different, but I can't draw any other conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u46	I'll fight that very hard. That's just because it's all public. I'd like to put the question back to your room. If there are any projects that your Chamber is wondering what they are doing in the accord or on the list, then I would like to discuss them in substance, because I think that is quite right. But it's certainly not like it could be a free pass. That is why I think we have designed it so carefully. That is why there is a legislative proposal for this. That is why there is Parliament's power to look at this every year, because the fund's budget is passing by and it is also passing by in the authorisation. Your Chamber therefore has every opportunity to review how the proposals have been weighed. That is also publicly accessible via the websites, so that is to be found. Another comment to Mr Van Strien: I did not have the letter in front of me, but in the letter you quoted, the Minister for Finance referred to the climate fund and the climate transition. But this is about a lot more transitions. This is also about digital skills. This is also about reducing the backlogs in this society. This is about empowering people in a knowledge domain. So that is much more than just the environment and energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u47	I am someone who has tried very hard to put these funds on the radar since the first day, but I am beginning to lose track. There's been a proliferation of funds. If I understand correctly, the nitrogen fund is now apparently called the 'transition fund', in order to add to the confusion. Or I'm wrong about that, I'm asking the Minister. I thought that was the nitrogen fund, the transition fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u48	No, that's the climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u49	So we have the climate fund, the nitrogen fund, the transition fund and the growth fund. I have just received the letter trying to explain it. A jungle of funds with all kinds of objectives has now been created. I hear a different goal every minute. Now it's education. Then put the money in better education and smaller classes and better salaries, instead of doing it so cumbersome through such a vague fund. Maybe the Minister can get a clear picture of what fund is doing what, because I am now off the rails, and I think many with me, and I don't understand anything about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u50	A letter has been sent to the Chambers for this weekend or this weekend, so I would like to refer to that, otherwise I will have to read that letter here. It is indeed a lot, but it has also been a choice of this cabinet to invest in our sustainable future. As I have just said, we, the Netherlands, are being warned on all sides that we are doing far too little. That is indeed a trend break. In that sense, I agree with Mr Otten that it is very much at once, because we come from a different position. The art is now to make good use of that money. But that is a task for all of us, and that is where the Chamber has its part to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u51	It has not made it any clearer to me what is now the demarcation between the funds. But the Minister just mentioned a number of concrete projects that have been awarded money. Do I understand that the law we are discussing is therefore not necessary for the allocation of funds from the National Growth Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u52	We have now had two rounds of the Growth Fund. This was via a departmental route, in which the departments published growth plans. People were able to respond to that again: are those the right plans and the right focus points? What can we invest in? What choice should we make in that? On this basis, the various departments have worked on proposals with field parties, companies and knowledge institutions. They were given to the Growth Fund. They've given their judgment on that. If you look at the website, you can see that a number of projects were approved in the first and second rounds there. Now there's gonna be a change. The amendment is threefold, no, twofold. I think it's legal that it's mainly two things. One, a fund is being set up and two, a subsidy scheme is being opened up. The second point, opening up the subsidy scheme, makes it possible for field parties, companies and consortia to approach the advisory committee independently and not necessarily do so through a department. That seems to be a better way, because everyone will be able to submit a proposal there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u53	Okay. That wasn't exactly an answer to my question. I understand that subsidies and benefits can be made on the basis of the first law. Then what exactly do we need that second law for? It's still a bit of an unclear story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u54	The subsidy scheme has a different basis. That's what the bill describes. This makes it more transparent and testable. Everyone also has the opportunity to submit a proposal independently and not necessarily via a department. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll keep going. One of the questions had to do with the CO price...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u55	An attempt to achieve, on the previous point, the objective of the fund............................................................................................................................................................... I would like to see whether we can take a step forward. If I understand correctly, after the adoption of this bill in the Senate, the cabinet could indeed submit the budget bill National Growth Fund in September. Would the Minister promise me that this bill, which will be brought to the Second and First Chambers next autumn, will clarify exactly how we should interpret this debate? I would like to mention Mr Nicolaï's point about Article 1 and my concerns about the interpretation of Article 2. Can the Cabinet make it explicitly clear how it links expenditure charged to that budget law with societal challenges? Can the cabinet also make it clear I think it's funny what it's doing with the criticism of the CPVO last year? They have also made a point of the social missions and the prioritisation: what weighs the most? I am not asking the Minister to sort that out now, but I am asking the Minister to make this point very clear at the start of that budget law. Then we can take a closer look at whether we understand each other in the implementation of this bill, when it comes to the relationship between the expenditure of this fund and the social transitions, for which the cabinet is also at the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u56	I am certainly prepared to make a commitment to Mr Vendrik. I'm just thinking about where this is right: the annex or the explanatory statement to the budget or to the accountability. There is a letter to the Chamber about the accepted proposal, the proposal as accepted by the Council of Ministers on the basis of the opinion of the Advisory Committee. So I'm just gonna find the best place to meet that commitment. That is not what I want to say in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u57	I see Mr. Vendrik nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u58	Fine, let's do that. I would also like to comment on Mr Vendrik's question about the decent, realistic CO price that is expected. As promised in the Lower House following the Kröger motion and also in response to the questions raised by your Chamber, I will send a letter on how the CO prices are used in the assessment of the proposals for the Growth Fund. I understand your concerns. We have to count at a realistic price. You already indicated that the CO prices from the 2015 WLO scenarios are dated; that goes without saying. Therefore, the PBL and the CPB indicate that it is desirable to also carry out a sensitivity analysis in case of substantial CO effects and to work with CO prices that fit a 2 degree scenario. That's what they report. That was also the case with the growth fund proposals from the first two rounds. It is my preference that Mr Vendrik actually gave it to him in order to solve it in the same state, because of course it does not apply only to the Growth Fund. Of course, the planning agencies are independent in their analyses and in their methodologies around the CO prices. We are now in conversation with the PBL to arrive at a temporary solution as soon as possible until these new scenarios of WLO arrive in 2024. That's gonna take a while. We therefore strive to work with this solution in the upcoming review round and therefore with that adapted CO price. That's my bet. So I will go into this in more detail in the letter I promised, but Mr Vendrik now knows what line that letter will take. I come to a number of other questions in this block. Among others, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked to what extent the Growth Fund will contribute to broad prosperity. In addition, we describe that with each other. We call it broad prosperity, but you can see that we're working on a good definition of broad prosperity in all kinds of places. We are currently working with the CPB and its definitions. There is also a lot of thought about how to define broad prosperity. Increasing our sustainable earning capacity will be achieved through this fund if those conditions are met. The advisory committee therefore also takes this into account. Among other things, Mr Vendrik spoke about the sharp analysis of the landscape of the various funds. Mr Otten also asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u59	However, I would like to ask the following question just for the sake of clarity. Suppose, a proposal clearly contributes to the broad prosperity, or suppose that it can at least be substantiated, while the proposal does not directly contribute to increasing earning capacity. So the proposal does not directly make a quantitative contribution to GDP. This proposal cannot then be accepted. That's the policy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u60	That's correct, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u61	Can the Minister also explain why this was chosen? For if the goal should ultimately be broad prosperity, why should we not also be able to honour proposals that contribute to broad prosperity, but which are not directly clear whether they also contribute to an increase in GDP? Why can we not accept proposals which, at least, are clear that they will not contribute to an increase in GDP, but which will increase broad prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u62	Increasing earning power is really the central point of this fund. That was a very clear choice. And that's also an exciting choice, as I just said. However, we have done so because we saw on all sides that we are turning it in. And in the end, you can't work on the broad prosperity. So, especially in view of the scope of this fund, they are in sequence. That's why we do that. We have subsidies and other instruments to work on the broad welfare goals sec. However, for this fund, proposals should at least contribute to earning capital. And that must also be done on the condition that it contributes to that broad prosperity and to those transitions that we were talking about. So it is an underlying argument; Mr Van Apeldoorn did indeed correctly reflect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u63	I was just saying that I'm getting lost, so I only took the coalition agreement on my iPad once. In the letter of 10 June from Minister Kaag we are talking about a transition fund. I would like to have the taxonomy clear here, to speak with Mr Vendrik. What exactly are we talking about? Because the names change all the time. Apparently, the nitrogen fund now has the transition fund, if I understand correctly. But the coalition agreement talks about a 35 billion-dollar climate transition fund and a 25 billion-dollar nitrogen fund. That last fund is intended for agriculture and something else I have just lost. So words are all used interchangeably. What fund is what? So let us first apply taxonomy to these funds. Taxonomy is how we classify things. This is very important, including with regard to sustainability and the like. Can the Minister explain to us exactly what the transition fund is? Is that the nitrogen fund, or is that the climate fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u64	I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u65	Yeah, it's confusing from time to time. Mr Otten is right to say that I was also confused. Because the transition fund means the nitrogen fund. So Mr Otten is absolutely right. Anyway, he also has a point when he says that the landscape of the various funds is growing rapidly, and that there are indeed three funds that have been established in the past period and that you need to understand exactly what they are about. We are now discussing the National Growth Fund. We have the climate fund and, indeed, we have a transition fund. That's the nitrogen fund. The common factor is that it is all three budgetary funds within the meaning of the Compatibility Act. All three funds are set up by law, have the Minister of Finance as co-signator and create a separate fund budget. But there are also differences between these funds, for example the objectives. The aim of the National Growth Fund is, I repeat, to increase the sustainable earning capacity and, in short, the climate fund and the nitrogen fund have the aim of tackling the climate and nitrogen problem. But the expenditures are also different. The other funds are also set up in a different way. This is described in the letter of 10 June on the coherence and progress of the Funds. It is indeed a diverse landscape, but it is also intended to address various types of problem, in such a way that the funds are different from each other and do not overlap. Mr Vendrik asked, inter alia, whether we are going to do something about the great diversity of the revolving funds. What's going on there is that the revolving fund doesn't exist. The question is, what do you mean by that? Indeed, revolving funds can take all kinds of forms. Despite these differences, these funds are financed through the budgets of departments. This immediately answers a question along the lines of this: how can you control it? In any event, Parliament's budget law applies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u66	My question was broader. There are quite a number of revolving funds, which are often managed through the departments, through the departmental budgets. The fund landscape, which also applies to the National Growth Fund and so on, and so on, is growing. My point is not so much about accountability. I am less concerned about this than about the traditional request to the Minister of Finance to monitor the efficient and effective use of these funds. There's a lot of overlap between those funds, at least the "shown of." That can also be read in the letter of last...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u67	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u68	So my question is wider than that. It's about the multitude of funds. Would the cabinet, the Finance Minister in particular, attempt to exploit opportunities for synergy, aggregation? I mentioned the example of Invest-NL and the National Growth Fund. Would you not like to see whether there is no synergy to be achieved, to put that together and so on and so forth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u69	I fully understand Mr Vendrik's question. I also agree that I need to be very alert to overlap, excess, coincidence and that sort of thing. I totally agree with him on that. We're also trying to monitor the synergy. In this last round of proposals, the advisory committee of the National Growth Fund has also worked intensively with Invest-NL to see which parts of the proposal are not in place for this fund. Because the National Growth Fund is really about the early start of technology, when R&D is going on and it's going to take many years and a lot of effort to bring it to maturity. I have had the opportunity over the past few months to visit some of these projects, and I have to say: if you go from paper to reality, and you're standing there in a laboratory where great things happen, I'd actually like to invite Mr Vendrik to that too, so that does a lot with your motivation. So yeah, I'll be alert. But when I come to Oncode-PACT, where we are working on very targeted drugs against cancer diseases, which build up databases that will enable us as the Netherlands to fight cancer in a very targeted and much more effective way, and if that happens in the Princess Máxima Centre: well, Mr President, I am very proud that we can stimulate this as the Netherlands. So that's one side of the story. The other side is indeed that you have to look with sobriety, diligence and financial rigour to see if our money is being spent properly and there is no overlap. I would therefore like to assure Mr Vendrik that this alertness is certain. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to a number of questions from Mr Nicolaï. Does the 30-year term mean that projects that lead to lower growth in the short term and in the longer term are necessary for the viability of the Netherlands, than outside the scope of the fund? No, it's not. This type of technology, which I can mention, must of course be looked at over a longer period of time. When you look at innovation, you see that this goes with ups and downs. You also need to learn from what happens in such a development process. So if you looked at that in the short term, it wouldn't be wise. But at some point, you must have a perspective of ten or twenty years, which is also mentioned in the documents, from where that can come to maturity. This is used by the advisory committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u70	My confusion is increasing. Now I hear: we're going to do it with financial edge and we're going to make a very good financial assessment. I just understood that there is no return target. That is also in all those pieces, namely that it is not about a revolver character. In ordinary human language, that means we'll get the money back someday. That's not the point. Return doesn't matter either. It's about a sustainable earning ability, measured in 30 years, or whatever that may be. How is that consistent with financial sharpness? I do not think that is at all at all, I understand. Or do I misunderstand it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u71	Financial rigour is more than a return target. Invest-NL is there for the return target. At the moment when there is a return target in sight, but there is still insufficient willingness in the market to make a move, Invest-NL does the necessary, but then it is also about a loan. We are talking about the revolver fund that Mr Vendrik mentioned earlier. That's that. The National Growth Fund is about something a lot of prillers. Then you're talking about early-stage funding. That's a completely different situation where you're not talking about efficiency requirements. But that doesn't mean you can't look financially sharp. You have to look at what is being spent on budget and whether that is being spent wisely. That's what I meant by sharpness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u72	Now it's gonna break my nugget. Invest-NL was meant to offer options where the market failed. That's how I always understood it: Invest-NL is for market failure. So the return wasn't important either. It would be picked up by the market. Now the Minister says: for return we go to Invest-NL. I had always understood that this was not the case either. The longer this debate lasts, the less I begin to understand it. I'm afraid that's not up to me. Does the Minister perhaps have an example of where the Dutch State, with 20 billion or, as far as I am concerned, 0.5 billion, has invented a very innovative new thing? Let me take the hold: since World War II. Then give me a few examples. I think that innovation comes from very different things than passing out from this money by the State. That comes from knowledge, networking...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u73	I think your question is clear, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u74	... ecosystems, et cetera. Then give me an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u75	It is true what Mr. Otten says, that Invest-NL was meant for market failure, to give good ideas that lack funding. But then we're talking high-risk projects. A funder looks at the risk of proposals. At the time when those risks are too high according to their calculations, and their risk appetite, I would almost say, will not be financed. The idea and development can be very useful for Dutch society. These are the projects supported by Invest-NL. Mr Otten is asking for examples, but I am busy. Then we may need to organise a technical briefing to show what projects have been supported within the Growth Fund and other funds, but in this case we are talking about the Growth Fund and why. I think that might be very interesting to do, too. I've had myself informed about that and I'm very excited about it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nicolaï of the Animal Party asked whether the Growth Fund took sufficient account of the scarcity of certain minerals. That's right. If relevant, this will be looked at. There are also proposals specifically aimed at the circular economy or the development of sustainable materials. A number of proposals have also been explicitly adopted for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. I come to the next block and that is the operation of the fund. Mr Vendrik asked how the cabinet looks back on the adaptation of the coalition agreement and the take-out of part of the fund in the spring note. The Cabinet endorses the importance of an orderly budgetary process and the budgetary right of parliament. That's right. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that political choices can be made in a formation, as was shown by the adjustment to the infrastructure that has been taken out of the fund. That was a fundamental pillar that was taken out. In my view, Mr Vendrik meant in particular that 660 million was cut off from the fund under the Spring Note. That has yet to be approved by the Chambers. I think it will be debated tomorrow in the House of Representatives. As a fund manager, of course, I was not very enthusiastic about this, but in the political balance, it is important to make a choice about matters at some point. The degree of intervention, 660 million, about 3% of the fund, does not so affect the objective. So that's what it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u76	I know how this goes, but the point is two. One: at the time, Minister Hoekstra specifically stated that he wanted a fund, because the expenditures that would be made from it are so important that "it is about the future of the Netherlands"; we can imagine the lyrics that he wanted to guard it and wanted a fence around it. Two years later, the gate is open. This has happened once now, but it seems that there is another chance immediately. I'm sure another round will come along. So the question is what does this actually mean? We are starting a fund with the idea that these expenditures are so important that you really want to give them a separate status. What's all this worth? What does this say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u77	Politics is repulsive and it is not the first opportunity we have broken into, to a limited extent, on the size of the fund. We're dealing with a corona crisis that we're recovering from. We're dealing with a war in Ukraine. We're dealing with huge prices. Mr Vendrik will not be unaware that there is really something going on and that purchasing power is under pressure in a number of situations, especially in low incomes. In the Cabinet, we felt that we should make a balance of interests, and it has unwrapped in such a way. Mr Vendrik's question was why it was not transparent how departments decided which proposals were submitted. The departments were responsible for submitting the proposals for the departmental route in the old situation, the situation which led to rounds 1 and 2. That's when growth plans were used. Those growth plans and what choices you can make there have been made public. The departments then decided which proposals were submitted. That's inherent in that departmental route. All the proposers of the growth plans have been linked back to whether or not a proposal has been incorporated into a departmental proposal. In the course of the debate, I promised the House of Representatives to put in writing how the field parties are involved in these proposals. So that letter is coming up and I will send it to the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten asked how the experts who advised on the opinion request were selected by the Advisory Committee. There are quite a few, those public expert organisations that have contributed to the knowledge to assess the proposals. The proposals are also very substantive, so I think it is a good idea to ask for knowledge. They include the Advisory Council for Science, Technology and Innovation, the CPB, Dialogic, Ernst & Young, Invest-NL, NEN, NWO, PBL, PwC I want to be complete regional development companies, RVO, SCP, SEO Economic Research and TNO. Of course, it is not the case that all these expert organisations are consulted in each proposal, but it focuses on what knowledge is needed to make the proper assessment. By the way, you will also find this in the reports that are public. Mr Otten's next question was how the selection of the members of the consultative commission was made and what criteria were used. The committee members are selected on a number of criteria: broad experience in public-private cooperation, but also a good background in public administration, business and science, and specific experience in the fields of the fund, such as R&D and innovation and knowledge development. On this basis, the Advisory Commission shall be established and proposals shall be made, which shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Mr Otten asked whether the Minister of Finance is ultimately responsible or the Minister of EZK and why there is not one Minister at the end of the debate. Mr Otten himself pointed out that there were two ministers who were ultimately responsible. They are indeed the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK. They're both fund managers. This does not pose any problems in practice; the cabinet speaks with one voice. It is also more common, for example, with the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. Both, like the NGF, are budget funds with two fund managers. In the example I give, these are the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance. Mr Nicolaï asked who drew up the rules on conflicts of interest and whether I should make them public and lay down them in a regulation. The chairman of the committee shall determine its own procedure and shall be asked by the fund managers to draw up rules to avoid conflicts of interest in the decision on the institution. Those rules were adopted as part of the preparations for the first assessment round in early 2021. It was published in the rapport of the advisory committee on the first round.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u78	I hear the Minister say that the advisory committee determines its own way of working, but you would say that if there is an advisory committee with such important power, it is up to Parliament or the legislator to create safeguards against conflicts of interest. I do not hear the Minister say that these safeguards are currently in the law. I asked for a ruling on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u79	It is very common for committees of this kind to set their own procedures. There are also a lot of codes that can be consulted. What we are doing, of course, is marginal tests, if I may say so, to see if the procedure has been correctly formulated. It has been made public, so if Members of Parliament would have questions about it or if the procedure raises questions, there is an opportunity for that because it is part of a public report. We have tested it, and we are fine with it. It's a very careful procedure. The people inside have the necessary experience, so it is entrusted to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u80	I had asked a clear question, and I do not really get a clear answer. My question is whether something like this should not be regulated in the law. You can say "if consultative committees can regulate their own way of working, so can administrative bodies," but there is still a provision in the General Administrative Law that deals with impartiality, conflict of interest and the like. So, why does the government think it's right, from the point of view of legal certainty and guaranteeing that nothing is regulated in the law with regard to conflict of interest? From the answers to Mr Otten's questions, I would like to point out that quite a lot of rules have been laid down and it is therefore a matter which raises questions and which should lead to a very close look at who should actually be involved. That is something I would like to discuss in Parliament. So my question is again: why is this missing from the law? And the second, can we do something about that? Can the Minister promise that we in Parliament can once again discuss with the Minister the settlement of this conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u81	The regulation that there should not be any conflict of interest is something other than the method of working. There's something in the law on conflict of interest. The committee must be vigilant and public about this. So does she. As far as the question of conflict of interest is concerned, it is regulated by law, at least in the explanatory memorandum if I am right. In my view, Mr Nicolaï asked for this to be an operational level. We think we have sufficient safeguards in the law. It also has to do with the fact that you don't want to close everything. I'll just say it popularly. The question is whether that will give you more certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u82	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u83	I refer to the Minister's reply, which says 'before each round of assessments is identified for all proposals to be assessed, which committee members have an interest in a proposal'. That has to do with the way things work, that's right, but it's about combating conflicts of interest. That is still not clear to me. The Minister says there is something in the law. Then I'd like to hear the provision. I didn't run into it. I repeat my question as to whether the Minister is prepared to submit to the Chamber the regulation on combating conflicts of interest in draft terms. Then we can discuss with her whether there is sufficient provision for combating conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u84	I'd like to see what exactly is in the law, so I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u85	In line with what Mr Nicolaï just said. We as First Members of Parliament but also people in the Lower House must report all our interests. All of that has to be on the website. We are covered by PEP legislation; so is the Minister. All our financial transactions are being copied. That's all fine. That is precisely to ensure that it is absolutely clear where those interests lie when people decide on those billions of dollars. Now it is being outsourced to a committee for the National Growth Fund, 20 billion, and there is a completely different regime for that. They don't have to report all their interests legally. I do not know whether they are covered by the PEP legislation on what kind of money flows there are. Of course, that's putting the horse behind the cart. Then, as a parliament, we have established a system to ensure that these interests are completely transparent and clear, and there is an increasing interest in them, and then we are going to put 100 billion into funds with people who do not have to meet them. You can't sell that, Mr. President! That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u86	Two comments. Firstly, the committee advises, their resumes are public, their reports are transparent and the Chamber can certainly ask questions about them if it has them. In fact, budget law and authorization are in the Chamber. That's one side of the story. On the other hand, I would also like to ensure that we talk in this way about people who do this unremunerated. It takes incredibly long time. They bring a lot of expertise. I think we should also be a little positive about the qualities of people who use them for the Netherlands. There's a balance in place, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u87	I understand that you will be returning to the scheme in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u88	At least I'll say something about that conflict of interest, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u89	At that time, I also discussed this issue in detail with the minister's predecessor, the Minister for Finance, when he came up with this plan. I thought that was one of the worst plans, that you would have a billion-dollar fund run by an unpaid team of advisors. If you want to do it then it wouldn't be our idea, because we think there are better ways to use it than do it professionally and pay those people well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u90	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u91	Why does it have to be unremunerated? You can't expect that from those people, can you? Those are very big responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u92	A payment scheme applies, only, they have chosen to be unpaid. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u93	Mr. Van Ballekom, would you like to have the debate at the interrupting microphone and not screaming through the hall? Otherwise, people at home will not be able to follow. What you say is too important for people to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u94	Mr Otten's question was how the Minister intends to fund the billions of the fund as interest rates increase. Funds shall be financed in the same way as other expenditure. This means looking at the total balance of all expected expenditure and revenue in a financial year. If there is a budget deficit, extra money will be borrowed. If there is a surplus, additional debt can be repaid. The funds are not financed separately. In this way, the money is actually borrowed only if it is expected that an expenditure will be made. This will prevent us from attracting more debt than is really necessary. Mr. Chairman. I come to the implementation of the fund. Mr Vendrik asked what is the line of the cabinet with regard to intellectual property now that Mrs Leijten's motion, I think, was it an amendment on intellectual property that was rejected. The starting point is that knowledge gained through the use of the National Growth Fund benefits Dutch society. All proposals should therefore indicate how knowledge is disseminated. But companies themselves also invest quite a lot in these projects. If all knowledge would become available to their competitors directly and free of charge, the incentive for companies to participate and invest will cease. So dealing with intellectual property is a careful balance. It is a balance between the protection of innovations and wider application. It's always customized. I know the advisory committee spends a lot of time trying to figure that out. The advisory committee looks for the scope of what can be made public, but also looks at what is just or legitimate to protect with, for example, a patent or a patent. The proposals should refer to the application form on how to deal with intellectual property. The RVO and the advisory committee will examine this. I have a number of examples, but it is about how this is handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u95	Is it up to the advisory committee and the advisory committee only to set a good course here? Or does the cabinet give clear guidance on this, for example: it's public, unless? It is open source, unless a private party has a substantial financial interest and can claim part of the intellectual property on that basis. What's the guidance the committee gets with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u96	The guide is to find the balance between what can be public and that which also provides sufficient incentive for companies involved to invest. That is different in every situation. So it's not "public, unless," because then you'd forget that last aspect. Then there is far too much emphasis on making the public accessible. Then you don't have the private investors anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u97	It is therefore up to the Advisory Committee to consider how it regulates this exactly per project, depending on the participation of a private party. Is there some kind of guidance to that committee? When are you gonna say no? When does the cabinet think it's going too far here? It's literally a billion-dollar business.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u98	Yes, that's correct. The suggestion that is being raised is that the balance will go to protection. That's not true. I think it is good to look at the proposals themselves. It's actually about finding a balance. In the proposals that are now being accepted, that is the case. In fact, if it's not worked out enough... I have seen, for example, at RegMed XB, which is about regenerative medicine, that part of that proposal has been returned to work out the IP better. It is very interesting information with a lot of valuable knowledge. It is therefore essential to look more closely at what can be made available to the public. What is really necessary to protect and what can be applied much wider? I just mentioned, for example, Oncode PACT. You can see that it is about a large database and how you deal with that data collection. A very large proportion of them are applied very widely. So in practice, in the application, you see that balance is sought and found in many cases. But, of course, it's always a trade-off. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u99	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u100	Would the Minister promise that this item will come back every time in the annual account of expenditure charged to this new budget fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u101	I think it would be a very good idea to include that in the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u102	I want to get this straight anyway. This is an important point for my group. The Minister therefore does not share my group's view that knowledge and innovation generated from public funds should always be widely available to the public. After all, the Minister says that it must be a balance between the public and the private, so we can also have part of the proceeds, the fruits of the investments, privately protected through patents and patents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u103	Mr Van Apeldoorn's final conclusion is correct, because it concerns a balance sheet. It is not the case that only the government invests in these kinds of proposals; it is very often a combination of public and private. If you want to continue to encourage those private parties to invest in innovation, there is also a certain protection of IP. But when I look, for example, at NXTGEN HIGHTECH and cellular agriculture, I see that this proposal has been returned to make a clearer commitment to knowledge sharing. So on that side, too, the committee is working, precisely to steer it on the side of more public access to that information and to get a wider applicability. So the point is that in the proposals, the application of the direction we have indicated, the balance is sought between what can be public and what is really necessary to protect. Eventually IP is something that strengthens innovation. We are talking about the growth potential that we want to strengthen in the Netherlands. It always seems like if you're protecting something that prevents innovation, but that's not true. When there is protection of certain knowledge and technology, this often generates more innovation. So we have to monitor that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u104	With the corona crisis, we have seen what intellectual property and the protection of intellectual property through patents and so on can mean, namely billions of profits for companies. I've referred to that before. So it is also conceivable that the National Growth Fund will develop knowledge at some point leading to patents, innovation that is protected in this way. Then it might be sold abroad, a foreign company, which might go to the stock market. This then generates a lot of money, ultimately thanks to an investment by the Dutch government. Is that a possible scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u105	The direct relationship between making a lot of money is really not at issue in this fund. We are talking about early stage financing, so we are not talking about a fund or a proposal that should take the last step towards the market. We are talking about early-stage financing, where the government really needs to invest to initiate developments at all so that they get off the ground, so before that comes to maturity. When you look at good innovation, you see: it sometimes takes 10, 20, 30 years for it to deliver. That's what we're talking about here; we're doing it to give it a boost so that the Netherlands can participate and that it's ultimately helping our country. So the direct relationship between what Mr Van Apeldoorn says and the proposals before us is not so clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u106	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u107	The indirect relationship could be there. Indeed, we do not know where this investment from the National Growth Fund will lead, or will lead to intellectual property or patents that may have a certain value. We don't know that, but it could be. The question is what you are doing at the time and whether you are ensuring that knowledge generated by public funds will also be available to the public, and that, if it leads to private profits, you will then also ask the person who makes the private profits to repay that subsidy. Otherwise, you are actually financing private profits with public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u108	Private parties also invest themselves. The moment you take away the incentive that they're ever gonna make money out of it, they're not gonna invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u109	Talk about incentives and investment. I see the Minister's explanatory statement: "The National Growth Fund aims to provide financial resources to increase sustainable earning capacity. Sustainable earning capacity means the gross domestic product that the Netherlands can generate on a long-term structural basis, with a view to economic, social and so on. So it's about earning power, the gross domestic product that the Netherlands can generate in the long term. That is a somewhat financial criterion. Now anyone who has followed an elementary investment analysis can tell the Minister that when the interest rate rises, when interest rates rise, a lot of projects are suddenly no longer lucrative, because you have to discount future returns to the interest rate. The higher the interest rate, the more investment projects are postponed. At the moment, interest rates are rising enormously. When all this was conceived, someone else already gave it to............................................................................................................................................................................................... In the meantime, we have to pay 2%. Italy had to pay 4% yesterday. Interest rates have not been so high in some countries in ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u110	So your question is, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u111	So how can you achieve that? The minister just said: we're going to finance it from the current budget and if we're short of money, we're going to borrow. If interest rates are 10% in a few years' time, also as a result of inflation, then any investment analysis will show that a lot of projects are not profitable. So you are going to borrow at 10%, or perhaps even more, if inflation continues to rise for projects that are not profitable. Is it gonna stop? That's a real scenario. So then this whole fund, which was created a few years ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u112	Your question is clear. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u113	The return requirement is not part of the balancing framework for the projects eligible for this fund. I am looking, for example, at the proposals adopted in the second round. When it comes to knowledge development, for example, we are talking about low-educated and low-educated people, an amount has been allocated in this context to encourage the reduction of low-literacy. We are talking, for example, about open learning material. We are talking, for example, about digital education. I call the project "Digital Education - Good Regulation," which is about promoting digital learning and digital education, including in places where it makes less sense. Then you're talking about a very indirect relationship with promoting earning power in the Netherlands, but it's certainly relevant. In fact, you are talking about giving people less opportunities for access to the labour market. It strengthens the earning power again. I am not talking about a return requirement, but about a contribution to GDP, which these people can hopefully share. It is therefore a different consideration than for example with an Invest-NL or with a private equity fund, where you work much more with the financing method mentioned by Mr Otten. Then the question about the dominant method of analysis. Mr Vendrik asked what the dominant method of analysis is to assess knowledge development, R&D and innovation, now that the SMEA seems less relevant. I already said something about that in the beginning. No SMEA is prepared for investment in knowledge development, research and development and innovation. However, the same type of data is requested, in order to achieve the best possible quantitative and qualitative analysis of earning capacity. The CPB indicated that quantitative determination of the impact on GDP of individual proposals on R&D, innovation and knowledge development is not possible. The uncertainties are too great. This is why the committee makes the best possible qualitative analysis using this theory of change with the help of experts such as SEO Economic Research. It looks at the impact of the different steps and components of the project proposals. That model is also often used in government and science policy assessments, but Mr Vendrik will probably know that. Among other things, the Committee looks at whether the proposal contributes to a structural increase in productivity. Whether it is relevant to markets with structural growth potential. Whether it enhances the innovative power of a sector or an ecosystem. Whether it fits in with the comparative advantages of the Netherlands. Whether it delivers widely applicable results. Whether it delivers future-proof results. Or using the latest technological insights. Or using the latest scientific insights. All these aspects are taken into account in order to obtain the best possible picture of the contribution of the proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my folder with other questions. Mr Vendrik's question was whether, in the Millions' Note, we can expect a balance-of-payments framework around broad prosperity. I have just indicated that the development of broad prosperity and the way you look at it must be a combination of science, society and politics. The cabinet has asked the planning agencies to take steps in developing a thinking framework. We need a lot of clarity about what we aim and mean by that, so that we work on the same thing. In doing so, broad prosperity is focused on the longer term. The reflection framework can contribute to consistency over time and the discussion on prioritisation. I think that, if we had that framework of thought today, that might have helped this discussion too. The cabinet has also committed itself politically to this broad prosperity; let that be very clear. We're gonna get to work on that. I hope to see the results of this framework so that we can take the next step. In any case, we have already indicated in the next Millions note and budget, and I believe in a letter from the Minister of Finance that we, as a cabinet, place our priorities in the light of this broad prosperity. So we are all going to do our best, including the professional departments, to ensure that we make transparent how we can contribute to the broad prosperity. That is not perfect at first, as Mr Vendrik will understand, but we are working on it, and we hope that, with the critical contradiction, we will soon be able to take good steps and use it as a guiding framework. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nicolaï asked whether an investigation into the necessary change in the agricultural sector would be eligible for funding from the Growth Fund. No, because that would not meet the gateway criteria as I have just indicated. It's not an investment. I hadn't told you that those were the pillars, but you have to meet a minimum of 30 million. The examples you mentioned probably do not meet that amount. That is the way it should be, because that is one of the conditions of this fund. By the way, it is also more logical to finance these types of proposals from the regular budget of LNV. If it is about nitrogen measures, so really about this innovation, then perhaps the nitrogen fund could be eligible. But that is not my concern; that is what my colleague is about. Mr Van Strien asked how much FTE is involved in the fund, including hire, and how much comes from the regular budget and how much from the fund. I can't explain it to the decimal point, but I'll give you some clues. The total budget for this year's equipment has been estimated at EUR 9 million. This year 42 fte are financed from the fund itself. It is therefore a question of supporting the committee and providing policy support. In the second round, some 150 external experts are involved by the committee. They are also financed by the Fund. As I have just said, the committee has waived remuneration. There are still a few officials in the executive departments working on the proposals. They are financed from the departmental budgets. Mr Otten asked how, in view of the long horizon, the Minister does not think that more and more money will go to no-performance projects. Project-specific agreements are made for each project at the NGF. Those agreements contain clear performance targets, on which the consortium has to account annually. The committee often makes phased awards. You will also find this in the proposals and in the reports on them. The Committee cannot therefore assign a further phase if the performance and impact of the project do not meet the conditions. So we are trying to keep that manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u114	We see what happens to a lot of government projects, especially in the Netherlands, but also in other countries, with ICT projects, for example, all of which are progress reports. Look what happened in the judiciary. That would cost 20 million and at 220 million they stopped and it was cancelled. Look at the project GrIT at Defense that already costs 1 billion and that doesn't work. All these projects are completely out of control, precisely because of the mechanism that I tried to explain to the Minister: we need a little more time, it's all a bit disappointing, there's still more money to be paid. How can you be so sure that this is not going to happen with the National Growth Fund, when it is happening in structural terms with all other public authorities and ICT projects? Then what's different here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u115	I have indicated what costs will be incurred at the advisory committee. I must honestly say that I do not understand exactly what Mr Otten's question is in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u116	Okay. I'll explain. 100 million will be allocated by the Commission to some promising project. I am not talking about the costs of the committee or the advisers. But the Milestones aren't gonna be made. Professional investors know the saying "kill your darlings": stop it, this has cost 100 million, write it off, it's not gonna work. But in a government setting, especially if the money does not come out of a private investor's pocket, it is often said: it is a bit disappointing, we have had some setbacks, but if you put another 100 million into it now, then we can certainly make it a success. This is also often seen in large infrastructure projects. The North/South line would cost 1 billion, but ultimately cost so much billion et cetera. That is a mechanism that you see in these kinds of decisions a lot of action, especially in the case of government decisions. You are familiar with that, I think, from previous qualities as well. How do you avoid that problem? That's the biggest risk of all these funds, that you keep pumping money into some kind of white elephant that's never gonna work out. "It's gonna be okay, wait a minute, some extra money, it's gonna be okay": that's the risk!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u117	The question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u118	The question is now clear and I also agree with Mr Otten that you should pay close attention to it. This fund really is of a different nature and of a different order. We are not talking about a constant demand for funding. The committee makes a very clear timetable with milestones, and on those milestones, those agreements must be delivered. The proposal, i.e. the financing of these projects, is often made in instalments. If no delivery is made, a instalment shall not be paid. It is therefore much more about activity financing than about return financing, because it is a different type of fund. This is really about investing in innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u119	Okay, so the Minister hereby admits to the First Chamber I hear a commitment here that if the KPIs or the targets or whatever you want to call them, they will not be reached within a given year, that funding will then be stopped. That's what I hear here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u120	Then there's no payout. At the moment when agreements can be made on when these conditions can be met, it could certainly be that funding will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u121	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u122	Yeah, but the door was just closed. Now it opens again, at a crack, of: then they can make a new proposal and maybe they get money again. That's the sliding scale that this is going to lead to, and that's going to be a lot... I have also said to the minister's predecessor: I am already reporting for the parliamentary survey on the National Growth Fund, because it is a very high risk that this type of mechanism will be involved. I still don't understand how you want to avoid that. Maybe we can get some clarity on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u123	At the moment when a proposal is accepted, a certain amount is involved. First of all, the committee will decide what amount could be allocated to it. This can also be found on the website. There is a clear indication of what amounts have been granted conditionally and what amounts have been granted unconditionally. Most of the grants or opinions, because they are opinions given to the Cabinet, are conditional. This means that certain conditions must be met before those instalments are paid out. So that also had to do with every year in the budget looking again at when you are going to pay what money, because that is not yet fixed in advance. However, it is certain which conditions must be met before the amount is paid. I have a feeling that means we're not as far apart from each other as it seems. Mr. Chairman. There was also a question from Mr Nicolaï, on the basis of which considerations the Minister can nevertheless decide not to accept proposals. The committee has a heavy and comprehensive opinion. The cabinet may differ from that, for example, but that seems clear to me if the opinion deviates from the policy of the cabinet. Cabinet policy can also develop. That's why that test is always relevant. I just don't expect that to happen soon, given the experience I have with the proposals from the first and second rounds. That fits very well, but alertness is always good. Mr. Chairman. I think that has given me the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u124	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for her answers and thanks to the official support, which was undoubtedly also on the agenda. Thank you very much for that, too, along this road. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying a few points. The most important discussion has just been about the precise reading of the legislative text as regards the objective of this fund, the focus and the type of proposals to be financed by it. The Minister heard from me that, on behalf of the Green Left and Labour Party groups, I wanted to make a bold move towards the perspective of transitions and the perspective of broad prosperity. I hear the minister's actually headed that way. Mr. Chairman. Without reopening the debate, I would like to repeat my question just now. If the First Chamber accepts this bill, it will leave room for the cabinet to refer the annual budget for the National Growth Fund to Parliament next autumn. I would also be pleased to follow up this debate if the Minister would explicitly undertake to return to this issue, the objective and the good reading of Article 1 and Article 2, in the explanatory memorandum of that bill, and to refer explicitly to the analysis of the CPB last year. The CPB then presented an analysis of the first round and made a number of recommendations on the proper functioning of this fund. They're speaking to us. That's about the social mission. That's about the transition. This is also about the broad prosperity perspective rather than the focus on GDP growth. I would ask the Minister to recall this in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal next autumn. I think that could be a good outcome to this debate. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the CO price. Thank you for the answers there. I am pleased to note that the cabinet is also of the opinion that we are not going to wait for the WLO 2024, but that we certainly need to work in the meantime with a nearby solution, so that in any case the good, efficient CO price is not only used in this fund that has become slightly less relevant but is widely used where SMEA analyses are discussed in decision-making. Nice to know. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the millions note. I look forward to the next copy in September. To be continued. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final point, on my part. Oh yes, thank you for the commitment to always return to the issue of intellectual property in the responsibility for the use of the funds from the National Growth Fund. That's a close listener. I repeat what I said in the first term. It cannot be true that we are going to repeat what happened to the coronavirus: the mega-profits of private pharmaceuticals against the large public funds, which have been spent on the development of corona vaccines for good reasons. It really hurts the eyes. You just don't want to repeat that in the context of this fund, with respect for intellectual property on the basis of private investment; I understand that too. But that listens closely and that also includes precise and good accountability, so that we can see with the cabinet whether the right route is being followed here. Mr. Chairman. The final point is about the fund landscape: a friendly, encouraging, stimulating, inspiring, stimulating motion. It is actually intended for the Minister of Finance, so this Minister can easily promise that she will pass judgment on this matter to the Chamber. The: Mr Vendrik, Mr Crone, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Gurp proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many funds (financing, investment, grants) have been set up by and because of the government and are managed by various ministers;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness and effectiveness of these funds should be ensured;]] [[considers that opportunities should be identified for strengthening cohesion and governance within the Funds;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to review the entire fund landscape and to develop options to strengthen the efficient use of public funds, while also considering options for pooling funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35976-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u126	Mr. Chairman. Finally. Of course, I would like to respond to the Minister's invitation, but I must also say that I am so intimate that I am always very happy internally when I know that public finances are working on such a motion to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of public funds. It always warms me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u129	I am also getting very warm from Members who stick to their speaking time allocated by themselves and who do not exceed 80% over and over again. Mr Van Strien has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. The answers were certainly comprehensive, in our view not sufficiently enlightening, particularly in terms of the objective and, unfortunately, not satisfactory at all. For us, the National Growth Fund remains a fund that was invented three years ago when the money blew up against the plinths and the interest rate was zero or negative. Today there are very serious problems, such as high poverty, especially energy poverty. People do not know how to heat up their homes this winter, while the cabinet is stalling with filling the gas reserves, stalling with the use of cheap coal for electricity generation, stalling with the construction of nuclear power stations, stalling with building houses and stalling to stop the total out of control and clawing with money-cost mass immigration. We've got a screaming inflation and we're heading straight into a recession. For us, this fund remains 20 billion in the plunder while the Netherlands is impoverished. This is unacceptable to the PVV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u132	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for replying. Once again, my group is pleased that there has been an institutional law. The question is whether this is a good institutional law. It is important that the objective is clearly defined and that it is an objective that fits in with a budget fund to which 20 billion in taxpayers' money goes. We have devoted much of the debate to this today. Once again, my group regrets and, frankly, does not understand that broad prosperity has not been chosen as an objective. I really think that would have been better. The Minister has said that it is a contribution to the earning capacity and growth of GDP, but what is stated in Article 1, namely in view of, among other things, an environmentally sustainable future, must be read as "subject to'. That sounds like profit to me. The question for my group is still what that means in practice. It must still contribute to an increase in gross domestic product, not tomorrow but in ten or twenty years' time. You could also reason whatever my colleague Nicolaï hinted at: if you don't take care of that sustainable future and do something about that climate crisis, there may not be any earning power left at all. If you interpret it that way, you could actually see all the measures or investments that could lead to fighting the climate crisis and securing the future of planet Earth as indirectly contributing to our sustainable earning ability. But the question is whether the Minister will explain it that way. The starting point for my group is that what is financed by public money must remain public in the first place. This is a really essential point for my group, on which the Minister and I do not think I have agreed. Now the Minister says: yes, but there must be a balance between public and private, because you must also give an incentive to private investors because otherwise they will not participate. I am confused about that, because there is no requirement for profitability here. And I'd say send private investors to the market that see the chance to potentially make a lot of money in the long run. And for situations that funders find too risky on the market and where there is too high a risk, there is Invest-NL. But apparently these private financiers should also be able to go to the National Growth Fund. I think that's double. In any case, my group continues to believe that there is no need to make large private profits with public-generated knowledge. So it should remain in public ownership, instead of becoming patent-protected intellectual property. And if large private profits are generated, then at least that subsidy will have to be repaid again, also in accordance with the amendment tabled by the SP Group in the House of Representatives but unfortunately it has been rejected. Finally, Mr President. I think we're going to come back to the relationship between the different funds. Mr Vendrik has also mentioned this. We still have questions about this, but at least that comes back to the debate on the climate fund, the transition fund and whatever the funds are. I believe that one more question has not been answered. With this fund, but probably also with the climate fund, we are very committed to subsidising as an instrument when it comes to this transition. How does this relate to the instruments "prize" and "standardize"? Because the starting point of our group is that prices and standards are in principle the way, and that subsidies are only acceptable as an additional instrument. You should initially simply force companies to produce sustainably. And so subsidising really should be an additional instrument. Perhaps the Minister could comment briefly on this in the reply in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I now turn to Mr Otten. He is speaking on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we know, we were not in favour of this National Growth Fund, but after this debate with the Minister, we are actually much more concerned about this than we are about this debate. There has now been a proliferation of funds, funds that are also constantly changing names. It's become some kind of company game. What's the name of the fund today? The nitrogen fund is now called the transition fund. We have the climate fund. We have Invest-NL. That was intended for market failure, but I understand that this is now required to achieve a return. So there are also all sliding panels, which are still put on other labels. It's an inimitable event. There is a real proliferation of funds, which also withdraws from parliamentary control. The committee that is going to give opinions on the projects will be given enormous power. If I understand correctly, the cabinet cannot oppose it if the committee advises positively. Or is it the other way around? Can the cabinet not say that a project still needs to be done if the committee is to give negative advice? What exactly is it about? Maybe the Minister can clarify that. So this gives that committee a tremendous power to select what one does and what one does not want. So that's very directional. That committee does that unremunerated. We think that's really weird. It is clear that we do not think this is a good plan, but if you do this already, you certainly should not do it with unremunerated committee members. Because something that's free has no value. So you can't ask the members of that committee to treat that seriously. So either you pay them well or you don't. But you can't say, "It's an important project, can you clear two weeks for that?" Because then the committee members say, "No, sorry, I'm doing it for free, I don't have time right now. I have other things to do now, because I have to earn my living." That is also an unworkable situation, so we think that is a very bad plan. So you're dealing with all kinds of conflicts of interest. The committee is not paid, so it can play a very important, guiding role in the question of which projects are or are not eligible. That is a real danger. Mr Nicolaï has also referred to these conflicts of interest. Our group believes that it is not sufficiently secure. As parliamentarians, we have all kinds of procedures. So we should not have 20 billion in total with those other funds, we should not have 100 billion in total, we should not have parliamentary approval and people who do not comply with those procedures, because 'they do so for free'. I don't think we should. What I actually had to think about during this debate, including Mr Van Apeldoorn's contribution on patents, is the following: I happened to read something about Jonas Salk this weekend. I don't know if people know who that is; maybe the chairman knows. That's a medic, a virologist, who developed the polio vaccine in 1955. That saved a lot of kids' lives. This man came from a poor immigrant family. There was no money in the family, but because of his achievements he was sent to a very good school in New York and to a very good university. That's where he developed the polio vaccine at a young age. Innovation is therefore mainly due to good education. What did this Jonas Salk do? Apparently, he was world famous in the 1960s and 1970s. That slipped my mind at that time and dropped out of patents. It's calculated that those patents on the polio vaccine would have been worth $7 billion. But this Mr. Salk said, "I do that for humanity, so I'm done with that." So it cannot be that we are going to invest 20 billion in all kinds of fantastic medicines against cancer, for example, and that the revenues will end up in private hands. Then as a government, we're not doing very well. For inspiration, I would like to say to the Minister: read a book about this Salk too; then you will see how innovation comes about. This is because of passion, through education and by bringing together talented people, and not by letting civil servants distribute billions. Finally, Mr President. It was already a bad idea when the interest rate was zero or negative, but it is now a very bad idea, because the interest rate is going to rise enormously. All kinds of investments have been made in recent years, which, at 0% interest rates, do not pay at all at 5%, 6% or 10% interest rates. The same applies, of course, to this fund. Then you can say: we measure it over a longer period. But as interest rates rise, some investments simply become less attractive, even in the long term. It is therefore an outdated idea, especially in view of the current financial markets, which are also very turbulent, and current inflation, which will cause interest rates to rise sharply. So put the money in a recovery plan for the disposable income of the middle groups, which your party is standing up for, I understand. Do that, withdraw this bill and stop wasting this money. That would be our advice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u135	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not entirely agree with Mr Otten on the unpaid nature of the members of the consultative committee. I only like it when people do that job unremunerated. So I would simply like to praise that. However, I agree with him that the members of that advisory committee, especially after what we have heard from the Minister, are actually in a very powerful position. I understand that if they give negative advice, the starting point of the cabinet is that ministers will not accept the proposal. That does raise the question of who actually decides. This is even more true when positive advice has been given and ministers say that they are not going to do so. In the latter case, if those ministers say so, you can call those ministers to account. In the first case, the Minister will say that he does not have any sound arguments to depart from the opinion. I wonder if it can be seen as strong, as the Minister puts it, that you will actually let the advisory committee take the decision. Either way, the advisory committee is a powerful institution. In my view, the Minister has not yet answered my question as to how we, as a parliament, can monitor things a bit. I had asked if she was prepared to say that there would be a pre-established and parliamentaryly approved profile of the Members. Under what circumstances can you become a member of that? I haven't really had an answer to that. And then there is the issue of conflict of interest, which the Minister will probably come back to in the second term. I don't see in the law that that needs to be arranged. I can see from the Minister's answers that apparently there are all kinds of rules already. Mr Otten also asked. He said that there are only two points, but apparently there are four other points. I didn't hear anything about that either. My group, however, needs more clarity. Can the Minister promise that she will return to it in a letter in more detail, so that we can face the whole of it? That which is in the Minister's answers gives me the confidence that it is well arranged, but I would like to see it all together for a while. Perhaps there is another point that has been forgotten, so I would like to ask the Minister. Mr Van Apeldoorn actually asked the essential question, including for me. I am not going to repeat that question, but it also had to do with my question about the proposals on what to do with the agricultural sector. If you look at the earning ability next year or in two years, it's probably going down. But if you look at the earning ability in a distant future and consider the question of how the Netherlands would stand if we didn't do anything, then you have a completely different scope. Article 2 (3) states: "The fund may provide financial resources for activities which are at least" and then the first point is "enhanced sustainable earning capacity." Then what is that sustainable earning ability? Are we just looking at the next few years or are we looking at the future? That was the essential question for me, which I think the Minister answered clearly. What we see in the law as sustainable is with a view to a social, environmentally friendly, sustainable future. If you consider that "with an eye to" as "under the condition of," then you could also include projects which, indeed, do not immediately lead to the growth of earning capacity, but which we can welcome, or actually consider necessary, with a view to future growth capacity, as Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked. I would like a clear answer to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u137	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u138	No, I just want ten minutes to prepare the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u139	Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend until 5:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u140	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall pass on Mr Vendrik's question until he is present. I'm sure you will. That's already the case. Then I'll keep the order, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by answering Mr Vendrik's question. He asked if I could undertake to clarify in the budget law the objective of the fund, as described in Articles 1 and 2 of the law. Yeah, I can promise. In the draft budget for the NGF 2023, I will explain the interpretation of Articles 1 and 2 of the law. I have to check whether this is the case in the explanatory memorandum itself, or in the letter of the Chamber. But at least it will be known about Princess Day, so that you can take it with you in the discussion of the National Growth Fund's budget law. I will also include the answer to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question on the meaning of'subject to that' in that letter and that explanatory statement. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion with letter G, from Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Van Gurp, among others. She was nicely introduced, as an encouragement. I also think that encouragement is a nice hand-out. So if it's seen as an encouragement, yes. Of course, I want to make sure that the effectiveness and effectiveness of these funds are considered critically. I think it's going a little too fast to look at aggregation right away. We just started them, so that would be a really crazy situation. But in the evaluation you could certainly take that with you, and even if there is an interim reason for it. If I may read it in such a way that we are critical of the relationship between the funds and that at the time we look back and evaluate, but also in the interim, we remain alert so that the funds do what they have to do, do not overlap and are efficient and effective, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. So it depends on whether I can interpret her that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u142	Because of the sporting spirit of the debate, I say that is the case. Can I therefore assume that at some point we will hear from the cabinet specifically about this? I don't set a deadline, but of course it doesn't have to take three years. That should be a little earlier. The request to the cabinet is therefore that this be provided with an orderly reporting at a given time. That would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u143	Yeah, I'd like to make a commitment. That is also a bit along the lines of this weekend's letter from the Finance Minister. I would also like to see whether this actually meets the expectations. In part on her behalf, I dare to vouch for that, without having agreed to it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Nicolaï and Mr Otten. They asked about the independence and conflict of interests around the advisory committee. The advisory committee has now been set up by means of an institutional decision. A regulation has been drawn up to implement that Decision. The advisory committee itself did that. He's drawn up a regulation. It states how the conflict of interest is combated. If your Chamber adopts the bill, the law will regulate the institution and the task of the advisory committee. Article 9 lays down that the Advisory Commission shall determine its own working methods. But it also stipulates that, among other things, the task of the advisory committee, the independence of its members and the accountability of the advisory committee will be developed in a ministerial arrangement. In this sense, what is requested is also completed, provided that this law is approved and accepted by your Chamber. In doing so, it shall be associated as closely as possible with the current decision of the Advisory Commission in its Rules of Procedure, in order to avoid conflicts of interest. So the basis, namely that and how the Consultative Commission meets conflict of interest, comes into the ministerial arrangement, provided that this bill is accepted. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn about how the instrument of subsidy relates to standardisation and pricing, and whether this subsidy should not be supplementary. We can't just normalize growth and create prices. Greening does, and we do. But measures are almost never free or without pain. Standards and pricing are essential, but their cost lies more with citizens and businesses, who then have to comply with this standard, or the pricing, which have to pay fees. The Advisory Committee always looks at whether the grant is the effective instrument for the present proposal. We already see the way in which they deal with it that some things change the proposal or that a proposal is placed in another place. So we are looking at whether other instruments, such as regulation, are more effective. There is therefore a very critical assessment of whether subsidies are really the only option. Only then will it be eligible for a positive opinion. Mr Otten asked when the cabinet could go against the committee. That is what we can do, or we will do, because it is a serious opinion if the proposals are contrary to policy and if we believe that the committee has not sufficiently taken into account all the relevant aspects of the proposals. We look at and assess every proposal, including rejected proposals, on their merits. The Minister of Finance and I then submit this with a well-founded story to the Council of Ministers and then come to a decision. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nicolaï asked whether the members of the committee should not be recruited on the basis of a profile approved by Parliament. In the event of a vacancy of the positions or an extension of the committee, the committee shall make a public recruitment. There is currently a recruitment process for two new members, one specialising in education and one specialising in digital innovation. The profile for new members is established in advance with fund management, i.e. with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK. It is not customary to present such a profile to Parliament. I'm just checking, Mr. Chairman, but I think I've answered all the questions now. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u144	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u145	I heard the Minister, in response to the questions about what exactly is going to happen with that "subject to that," saying that there will be another letter about that. At least we've heard from the Minister that you should read it like that. Then what's the letter about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u146	Much of this debate has dealt with the interpretation of Articles 1 and 2. Because we speak a lot of words there, I think it is good to record that. For example, we have a clear explanation of what exactly the fund's objective is and how to read what is in the law. I have promised you and others who have asked questions about this, such as Mr Vendrik, that they will be able to deal with this on paper and do so for Prince's Day, either in the explanatory statement to the budget submitted or in a letter accompanying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u147	So that means that the Minister is holding on to what she said here: you have to read it as "subject to that." I had also asked in my speech whether the Minister was prepared to include this in the detailed rules, which still need to be laid down, so explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u148	I believe that with the commitment I have just made, I will make sure that I put it on paper in a letter that reaches your Chamber to answer the questions asked. I can imagine that, if there are any doubts or questions about that letter or the statement of reasons for the budget, we will still be discussing it. But I will certainly allow the content of this debate that we have had with each other to return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u149	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u150	That's not exactly my point. The point is that, if it is laid down in a more precise rule, it is generally binding rules. I don't need to explain to the Minister what that means. A letter and an explanation and so on are a different story. If the Minister says that you should read that in Article 1, it is obvious that this is also laid down in those detailed rules. I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u151	We are talking about the explanation of the legal provision of this bill. If I were to include this in the explanatory statement to the budget for the coming year, it would also lay down the rules on how to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u152	Thank you. That puts you at the end of your term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-10.u155	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal next week and vote on the motion tabled next week. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:15 p.m. Before I get any questions about that, yes, that's the same thing as 7:15.
