ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on COVID-19 topics and the long-term approach. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "And what does the government do?" The Ministers undoubtedly know this question and the answer that used to follow in the radio programme Between Barend and Van Dorp: no shit. The question "And what does the government do?" As far as my group is concerned, it is at the heart of the matter today. When we voted against the extension of the Twm on 24 May, this was expressly not intended to put an end to the government's entire Corona approach. On the contrary. As far as we are concerned, it was an incentive to shift the focus finally and with greater urgency from constantly extending measures to developing a long-term approach. However, we do not see this long-term approach, or hardly any, coming off the ground. And that's what worries us. This concerns us because it is completely unclear what will happen if a new serious corona wave occurs quickly. We do not feel that we, as the Netherlands, are ready for this now. It also concerns us because it says something about the lack of creative capacity, effectiveness, sense of responsibility and executive power in this government and the ministries that are led by ministers. We see these shortcomings not only when it comes to dealing with corona, but also on more dossiers. I refer to the compensation of the victims of the premium affair, the Groningen file and the nitrogen file. It seems like the government isn't doing what it has to do anymore, can't do what it has to do anymore. The government's broken, you hear more and more. Mr. Chairman. I'm a rasoptimist, but I see it more and more gloomy. I really hope that the ministers can convince us and the people in the country that the government is not broken, that the government is doing what needs to be done: identifying and analysing problems, making plans, taking responsibility and investing responsibilities, ensuring that the laws and regulations are in order, and ensuring that the performers have enough money and manpower and know what to do. So it's governing. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the long-term approach of COVID-19 and the general pandemic preparedness do not seem to be getting off the ground. The cabinet seems to want to hang the whole future approach on sectoral plans that need to be made by the sectors themselves. Like many others, my group has looked at this strategy with surprise. Not because we are against sectoral plans. On the contrary. It seems to us to be a very good idea if sectors themselves make plans for how they can take action in the event of a new wave of contamination. But it is because sector plans cannot form the whole approach and seem to do so to a large extent now. And because sectors do need frameworks to be able to make their plans, and direction to be able to implement them. That seems to be missing now. It is not clear when measures need to be taken and when they need to be scaled up. Nor is it clear what the effectiveness of the various measures that can be taken is. This is not even being investigated, as I read in the Volkskrant of Saturday. The same article highlighted another problem with the sector plans. Now that the cabinet has already announced that there will be no emergency aid, it is difficult for entrepreneurs to expect them to take measures that are detrimental to turnover. Horeca Netherlands has already announced that it will not do so. The spokesperson for Royal Dutch Transport says: no one wants to be the turkey who walks to the butcher himself. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly why he chose to put the sector plans at the centre of attention. Based on what advice or scientific insights did this happen? I would also like to hear exactly how the cabinet sees the approach on the basis of the sector plans. Who is going to assess whether the plans are sufficiently traceable and on what criteria? Have these criteria been made known to the sectors in advance? How can the effectiveness of the sector plans be assessed if there is no study and the effectiveness of the various measures is assessed? Who will decide in due course when the sector plans should be put into effect and when should they be scaled up and scaled up? And on what criteria does that happen? Who is going to monitor compliance? Why is the coordination of the plans at the Ministry of Economic Affairs? What is the role of the VWS Minister in all of this and of the Prime Minister? Mr. Chairman. On 28 June last, in the House of Representatives, the motion-Den Haan c.s. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think that's going to be voted on today. I expect the Minister to recognise the importance of what is requested in this motion and to implement it without delay. The Security Research Council came up on 1 July with a report Follow-up recommendations Approaching corona crisis. The same day there was a big interview with Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the chairman of the OVV, in the Volkskrant. I would like to ignore what he said in general about governance culture and responsibilities, but I would like to repeat some of his comments on the Corona approach: "The most urgent things actually do not happen." There are no detailed scenarios yet, the minister of VWS does not yet have a perseverance power, the Wpg has not yet been adapted and we will start again from scratch, says Dijsselbloem. Can the ministers respond to this? In the recent report, the OVV examines the government's follow-up to the ten recommendations they made earlier. In our view, it contains worrying observations and conclusions. Can the Ministers state by recommendation how the conclusions of the Security Research Council on the follow-up to the recommendations are appreciated and whether, how and when the various recommendations will still be implemented in full and in practice? Mr. Chairman. It is impossible to be complete in a debate like this. My group has chosen not to speak now about the adaptation of the Wpg. We have seen that it has been consulted and assume that when formulating the final proposal, ministers will make a good and explicit assessment of the protection of public health, the fundamental rights of citizens and the democratic embedding. I would like to mention another point, and that is the responsibility of the vulnerable and those who have been receiving long-term covid. I mentioned it at the beginning of my contribution: it seems as if the entire corona approach of the cabinet has ended with the end of the Twm. The basic recommendations are still on the government site, but are no longer actively communicated. You're a crazy stallion now when you're walking around with a mouth cap. Meanwhile, we hear that people with vulnerable health are concerned about the rising figures and feel completely left to their own devices. Does the Minister of Health feel responsible for these vulnerable people and what does he have to offer them? How can we protect them and how can they protect themselves? What possibilities do they have to enforce an adapted workplace or work at home? Why can't anyone who finds themselves so vulnerable that he or she is forced to stay home get a fourth shot? What's against that? How can you appeal to people on their own responsibility if you make it impossible for them to take that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u3	An interruption by Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u4	I listen with interest to Mrs De Boer's speech, but I still have a question to ask her through you. This concerns the fact that we did not accept the extension of the Twm here last time. Mrs De Boer did not support this extension. However, I hear from Mrs De Boer that she calls for a stronger policy from the government, from the government, and for action to be taken. But by not extending the Twm, of course, the government also has fewer possibilities. How does she see the difference between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u5	I don't think you'll listen very carefully. What I am saying is that there is not only black and white, so black in the sense of measures based on the Twm, and white in the sense of 'everyone picks it out', but that there is still a great deal to be done between them and that we do not see that. So the compelling advice, the communication to the citizens, how are things actually going with the virus, what can you do for yourself, what do you expect, what do we do in the future, the direction of the GGDs, so just say the whole policy piece, regardless of mandatory fundamental rights-limiting measures, that is what we are missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u6	Then I would think that until the proposals made by Mrs De Boer are settled, you are still holding something behind your back. I think it is remarkable that this Twm could not be extended, but that additional measures and interventions should be requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u7	I suggest we not do the whole Twm debate about this. We disagree on this. We believe that these fundamental rights-limiting measures are no longer grounded and are not at the moment, and that there is a good reason for communicating what is going on with the levels of infection, what people can do and what the plan is for when there are higher levels of infection. The fact that more is being done to protect vulnerable people, that vaccination opportunities are being extended again, that people can get a fourth shot. So there is so much more possible than just taking fundamental rights-limiting measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u9	People who have contracted long-term covid are also concerned, about their health, their job and/or their income. They too feel overlooked, now that everyone pretends that corona no longer exists. What perspective can the government offer them? Long-term covid is not only a major problem for the individuals involved, but it also has an impact on society and the economy. Do the ministers have any idea of this impact? What are the social and economic consequences of the fact that about half of those infected still have complaints after three months and may not or may not be able to work fully? To what extent is the current shortage of staff in many sectors related to absenteeism or reduced employability, for example of self-employed workers, due to long-term covid? Is there any insight into this and what is the government's plan to do about it? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Ministers' reply and hope that the answer to the question 'what does the government do' will be different from that of the regular listener Paul Grehwinkel on the radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Voort of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. As in previous debates, I mention that I am professionally involved in the treatment of covid patients in intensive care, but my group does not believe that this should prevent me from speaking today on the long-term policy of corona. Mr. Chairman. We have spent two years in our Chamber debating corona with each other, sometimes with a more optimistic view of the pandemic and sometimes in a frightening situation. Where are we now? There is a so-called summer wave going on with an increasing number of infections and an increasing number of hospitalizations. We have seen increases in this virus several times before in the summer months. At the moment Corona is also in the warm Portugal. It therefore seems inappropriate to keep calling this virus a'seasonal virus'. The question to the Minister is whether he agrees with that suggestion and that we should stop doing so. It can create confusion. Many people now have to stay home for five days because of an infection with or without complaints. The latter leads to a breakdown in companies, organisations and also in health care and other essential professions. The railways warn that not all trains always run as indicated in the timetable. The people who are now experiencing a corona infection often look on the website of the Ministry or RIVM to find out what the insulation and home stay advice are. Frankly, that information is not always easy to understand. Our group is wondering: when will the time come for the retention advice to lapse? Can the Minister indicate whether the expiry of the home advice might be already under discussion? It would at least give clarity. And let's face it, flu and other viral infections don't have that advice either. Does the Minister think that for the current, less sickening variant, the advice at home is perhaps excessive at the moment? The Minister's letters show that very few serious cases of disease are expected in the current variant. This also has to do with the high degree of vaccinees in combination with people with an infection. In the Netherlands there are virtually no more people who have neither been vaccinated nor had an infection. A monitoring of variants, as already done by the RIVM, can give a timely signal when a home advice should be re-introduced. So much for the questions concerning the current situation with a slightly sickening variant. Although it is unlikely in the short term, two scenarios have been outlined by the WRR and the Academy in the case of new sickening variants which could lead to measures. Our question to the Minister is: what has actually been prepared by the government and made concrete for these scenarios? We understand from the recent long-term letter that in the event of an increasing demand for care, expressing itself in hospital and ic admissions, the Minister has prepared himself by suggesting to the expert team a number of interventions to allow the healthcare organisations to provide more care without involving more staff. Can the Minister indicate how much additional capacity these best practices really deliver? How does this relate to the exponential demand for care capacity in such a case? In the case of a sickening variant, for now, autumn and winter, we are dealing with four things: one: preventing infections; two: preventing serious disease after infection; three: enabling the care sector to provide care to everyone who needs care; four: keeping society open. On these four points, our group still has a number of questions. On the first point, the prevention of contagion, we support the government's policy of investing interventions mainly on a decentralised basis where it is possible and at the centre of where it should be. But in substance we have the following questions. It appears that aerosols are the main source of contamination and hygiene measures with regard to indirect contact have a limited effect. How will this be translated into the sectoral plans and into other measures taken by the government? For example, are FFP2 masks advised instead of surgical mouth-nose masks or cotton masks? We see a much wider use of FFP2 masks abroad than in the Netherlands. We also wonder how vulnerable people can protect themselves and how others can protect the vulnerable. That's what Mrs De Boer was talking about just now. With regard to the second point, the prevention of serious illness, the D66 Group wonders whether the citizens who would like to have a booster vaccination can have them on their own initiative in the future. Knowing that immunity is less well protected from infection after a few months, it is not a bad idea that citizens who want it can get a new vaccination regularly. So not vaccinate in rural rounds, but make vaccination available to anyone who wants it, for example always at least every four months after the previous vaccination or through infection. What is preventing the Minister from making this form of self-regulation and self-responsibility possible, so that immunity remains at its maximum level for those who want it? No obligation, but it's possible. This also means a much more uniform burden on vaccination sites, reducing the scaling-up of the GGD and ensuring a more stable level of immunity among the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u12	An interruption by Mr Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u13	I think we agree on the principle of placing responsibility at regional level where it is possible and at the centre of where it should be. Can Mr van der Voort give an example of what can or should be central to regional affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u14	I am referring, in particular, to the sectoral plans. It would seem logical to me that there should also be recommendations from the Ministry to which they should comply, what they should look like and what targets should be achieved. If necessary, it should also be applied centrally, i.e. from the government, in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u15	That's the problem: we don't read that back in the long-term vision. How does Mr Van der Voort feel about this? Mrs De Boer has indicated that we are missing that part in the central approach: what needs to be done. We're missing the frames. We're missing a lot. What does Mr Van der Voort think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u16	I haven't seen the sectoral plans either, so I can't say much about that. In that sense, I am as curious as you are to hear the Minister's answers on this matter. I hope he can reassure you. Mr. Chairman. The long-term strategy, as described by the cabinet, has little focus on reducing overweight. Although a healthy lifestyle is promoted, there is no proof of that as far as I know. However, the risk of overweight on the serious course of covid has been demonstrated in previous meta-analysis. We are aware of the prevention arrangements in the coalition agreement, but the Minister does not seem to clearly embrace the explicit discussion of the risk factor of overweight and the work on reducing overweight. People with lower socio-economic status often have unhealthy lifestyles and too high a BMI. They are therefore a risk group for experiencing severe covid. The CBS also shows that in the first wave, high and low incomes had an equally high mortality rate. But in subsequent waves, mortality under the high incomes was lower than in the low income class. How is the government going to prevent this social and medical inequality from reappearing in relation to covid? Furthermore, it is good to know that obesity is also a risk factor for a severe course of influenza and other respiratory viruses. A slim population is optimally pandemically prepared. We therefore advocate, in addition to keeping sports facilities open, an approach that focuses on poverty reduction, training, loneliness and good housing. This probably fights overweight much better than lifestyle interventions. I would like to see the government's view of this view. On the third point, making it possible for the care sector to continue to provide care for all those who need it. How are the nursing and nursing homes and the general practitioners prepared? They played an improbably important role in the first, second and later waves by engaging with patients, so that those who did not benefit from inpatient care could also stay home. In recent weeks we have seen the actions of the general practitioners, with attention being paid to the workload. Can the Minister explain what arrangements have been made with general practitioners so that they can continue to play this important role? Are the general practitioners prepared for the supervision of many patients with oxygen at home, as advised by the expert team to do? Finally, the fourth point, to preserve ordinary life as much as possible, is the open society. The mental damage that many have suffered over the past two years is impressive. Young people who have been vulnerable to mental problems for a long time need permanent attention. But also for others it is necessary to keep perspective and to create a balance between covid printing and relaxation. Our group believes that the role of culture in this has been underexplored over the last two years. Think of culture as oxygen for the mind. We are in favour of keeping at least part of the cultural sector open. What has been agreed with this sector? What can and cannot be done in this way at a high pressure on care? I would also like to mention the timing of measures. A question that concerns many in society is when measures will be taken. Apparently, the current acceleration in the number of infections combined with the sickness of the circulating variant at the moment is not sufficient reason to take action. If a new variant has the virulence of, for example, the delta variant, what degree of infection are freedom-limiting measures taken? We hope that it will not then be waiting again for the hospitals to have all hands on deck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u17	I just heard Mr Van der Voort of D66 arguing for an open society. He also outlines a number of frameworks for the long-term approach. At the same time, in his last sentence, I hear him talking about the use of restrictions on freedom. In one of these contexts, Mr Van der Voort outlines the need for self-direction and self-responsibility regarding the taking of vaccinations. But should that self-direction and self-responsibility not apply in general? And should there be no collective restrictions on freedom if there is to be an open society? It is very easy to say 'keep some of the cultural sector open', but that is very limited. How does Mr Van der Voort view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u18	I fully agree with Mr Van Hattem that citizens have responsibility for their own health and behaviour. That goes for everyone. Of course, that also fits very well with D66: we believe that there should be room for individual freedom and choices. The same applies, of course, to covid. So there is no doubt that in any situation during a covid pandemic, citizens should always be able to take their own direction. In addition, the sickness of a corona variant determines the number of patients who are seriously ill. Even if you take preventive measures as well and exploit your self-direction as best you can, it is not always possible to prevent you from getting sick and that you may need care with them. In that situation, where there are still many illnesses, so in a sickening variant, not the current variant that is not very sickening in terms of hospitalisations, it is often necessary as we have seen over the past two years that the government is taking measures that restrict freedom. So it's a balance between taking your own responsibility and preventing infections, between the illness of a variant, between the severity of the number of infections that occur. There is a balance and there will need to be more or less central management and freedom-limiting measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u19	In fact, Mr Van der Voort of D66 is now skipping a step, because he outlines a number of frameworks. I miss the framework of fundamental rights, because it is now quite clearly taking another step towards freedom-limiting measures, which are already assumed to be effective in advance. But you should actually ask if you are taking a measure whether it is effective. So if Mr Van der Voort is talking about an open society, can he therefore rule out any unproven effective measures, such as the use of the 2G corona access card? Because that is a proven effective measure, so why take that step immediately towards freedom-limiting measures if they are not proven effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u20	As a party, we always want to base our opinion on scientific evidence. We believe that this has also happened in the corona pandemic in recent years. I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to talk about a corona admission certificate, but anything that can reasonably be effective on the basis of scientific arguments should be usable if the situation so requires. We always make that assessment with each other, including in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u22	Finally, Mr President. Can Mr van der Voort take into account the fundamental rights of our citizens in the four frameworks he mentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u23	Fundamental rights are extremely important. One of the fundamental rights is that public care is provided. There is a trade-off that has always been made over the past two years. It has failed as it has been, as we all know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u24	Then there is an interruption by Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u25	I am very pleased to hear Mr Van der Voort say that his party wants to base itself mainly on scientific evidence. I do agree with Mr Van Hattem's question, because I have missed it so much in Mr Van der Voort's party when it came to corona tickets and it was already clear in the background that vaccination against the spread of infections was no longer any help at all. Nevertheless, the minister was given the opportunity to continue with that corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u26	I don't quite see the relationship between vaccination and the corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u27	Among other things, the corona admission ticket meant that if you were vaccinated you could just go somewhere freely, while actually from all sorts of numbers only the RIVM that had not been shown to help at all against the possibility that you would infect others. So the people who were vaccinated were allowed to enter freely, but were precisely from a point of view of spreading the most dangerous people. We never heard D66 about that back then. Is that gonna be different now? That is actually my question to Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u28	Now I get it better. In any case, vaccinations continue to protect against serious illness and hospitalisations, even today. If you have been vaccinated, there is therefore a smaller chance of a serious outcome. In addition, I do not think it is relevant to discuss the Corona Access Card in detail here. In due course, if that happens again, we will have to make that assessment with each other. We can then see how the scientific evidence lies at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u30	I am glad that Mr Van der Voort at least says that there will be a further consideration later, but my question was actually the following. I hear Mr Van der Voort now saying: we are going to look much more at that scientific basis. Is D66 prepared to pay more attention to this when it comes to any corona tickets? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u31	My answer is that D66 always looks at the scientific basis and assumes that. I think that this is generic now and in the future, and also for the corona ticket if that should be the case again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u32	We are pleased that Mr Van der Voort is so keen on the importance of scientific evidence and application. He is, of course, also an expert in this field. We are also great supporters of science. Does Mr Van der Voort believe that the scientific facts about corona over the past two years have been properly communicated by the cabinet and the previous minister to the Dutch people? Or has the Dutch population often been sent with a quasi-scientific rag? That is my question to Mr Van der Voort. That is the impression we have. How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u33	I think the cabinet has been informed and advised by eminent scientists, among others from the RIVM and the OMT. There are excellent scientists who know what they're talking about. It is, of course, true that in a developing pandemic not everything has already been researched in detail and with randomized studies. You will therefore sometimes have to advise with limited information and the government will then have to decide whether or not to intervene. In my opinion, this has always been very carefully done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u34	That is where Mr Van der Voort is at the heart of the matter: you will have to communicate it carefully. Of course, there has been very often a very strong communication that if we were to vaccinate, the crisis would have ended in no time and we could do anything again. On the contrary, unscientific communication was made by the former minister. This has led to enormous frustration and polarisation. How does Mr Van der Voort see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u35	I think these are interpretations that belong to Mr Otten. Of course, we all have our thoughts on how things went. I think it is good to wait for the evaluations that are going on and will come in the near future and then to make our final assessment. But as I just said, the cabinet acted on the advice of good scientists. I think that has generally been careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you. You can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u37	The question that lies above the market and which our group is asking here is: what measures in what form and in what order can citizens and businesses expect? Which sectors are closed first and which ones are not locked anyway? What freedom-limiting measures can citizens expect at what time and in what order? It seems to our group to be important to manage expectations so that as much support as possible has been created in advance. How will the government ensure that society is well prepared for any new measures? Can the Minister of JenV, for example, indicate how she is preparing and preferably prevent excesses with public order distortions from happening again? Mr. Chairman. Then we have questions about the legislation. When the changes in the Wpg are presented to the Chamber in the autumn, we will, of course, discuss them in detail. However, it is already relevant to discuss how the role of Parliament and, in particular, this Chamber will be in the setting up of measures. Can the government anticipate parliamentary control over the introduction of restrictions of freedom in the adapted Wpg? The internet consultation that is going on gives little insight into this. The answer to the written questions is more important, but not yet complete as far as our group is concerned. I would also like to thank the Minister for his detailed answer to our questions on the National Functionality of Infection Disease Control, the LFI. In doing so, much is made clear about the role and positioning of the FVC. What keeps us occupied is the relationship between GGDs and the FVC. The GGD is part of the municipality and the LFI is part of the RIVM. But the FVC does have a role in tasks that are now covered by the GGD. Where can there be tension on the relationship between GMD and FVC, we ask the Minister, and how is it going in practice, precisely at times when there is great pressure on these organisations? Mr. Chairman. Last week, the president of the OVV was in the news about the government's approach to the implementation of the recommendations made by the OVV in the first report. We shall confine ourselves here to the question to the Minister as to the state of play regarding the implementation of the recommendations, but that question has just been asked by Mrs De Boer. Mr. Chairman. Our group hopes for a deafening pandemic in which the so often discussed group immunity protects us from high waves and seriously ill covid patients. However, it is important to be prepared for more serious scenarios. That is why we await with interest the answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. In the letter of 13 June last, the Minister outlined the long-term approach of COOVID-19. Our group is pleased that the Minister is explicitly in line with the WRR and KNAW scenarios, namely the Navigating and Anticipating Report in uncertain times, of September 2021. In the debate of 23 November 2021, I showed that the policy of the cabinet was at the heart of a management approach to the crisis. I have the words 'technology paradigm' in mind. This approach has called for a counterparadigm in politics and society, a paradigm in which the role of the government is limited and the citizen's own responsibility is central. I have also shown that these two paradigms, the technological and the counterparadigm, are carried by different values. In the aforementioned debate, I put forward an alternative: the democratic paradigm. I deliberately chose the word 'democratic' because it is the responsibility of the cabinet, but it is also about control of power and acceptance in society. I also refer to the report by the Remkes Committee. I agree with what I said last time and want to work out this in three points. The first is the responsibility of the cabinet, the second is the responsibility of the local authorities and the third is the responsibilities of society. Mr. Chairman. The letter of 13 June gave a detailed account of the responsibility of the cabinet. These include intervention systems, access to the care chain, dialogue with sectors, legal instruments and so on. Already in a previous letter, dated 3 June, the Minister informed the Chamber about the National Functionality of Infection Disease Control. In its first evaluation, the OVV has given much attention to the structure of crisis response. He noted that no distinction was made between the acute phase, the "flash crisis" called by the Council, and the long-term crisis. He also noted the existence of an informal decision-making structure, with the result that a diffuse decision-making structure grew. Our group already has a few questions. First of all, what will the crisis structure look like within VWS? Is there going to be a separate crisis structure that includes VWS, RIVM and FVC, and who is on the crisis team? Can this team decide quickly and implement quickly? Secondly, what is the crisis structure going to be like at cabinet level? Who is on the crisis team and can this team decide quickly and quickly? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the letters of 1 April, 14 April and 13 June, the local authorities shine through their absence. Our group regrets that. Is that perhaps a remnant of the technological paradigm from the previous phase? Will the cabinet continue to think from The Hague? In recent years, local authorities have focused on the defence, implementation and enforcement of government policy. The question is whether there should be more room for local authorities. After all, everyone realizes that there is a big difference between an urban municipality with a high population density and a low vaccination rate and a rural community with a low population density and a high vaccination rate. What role does the Minister see in the acute phase for local authorities? And what role does the Minister see in the long term for local authorities? Can the Minister undertake to engage with local authorities on this point? Our group is considering a motion here. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, society's own responsibility now. Our group is pleased that the cabinet places a great deal of emphasis on this. Its own responsibility in society fits nicely with Christian-social thinking. The Minister asked the various sectors in society to draw up plans in line with the different scenarios of the aforementioned WRR/KNAW report. The cabinet states that if these plans are sufficiently solid, the word "solid" is a nice normative term, they will be at the basis of the measures to be taken. The question is therefore: what are these solid standards? Mr. Chairman. People are not individuals. They live in different lifestyles, such as marriage, family, family and friends. They meet in social structures such as sports, leisure, culture, work, politics, church, cafes, restaurants, etc., etc. How wonderful it would be to talk about the dangers of a new pandemic in all these contexts and all these social structures when the dilemma is discussed that one person could be a danger to another person. The Minister gives an impressive list of sectors he is talking to. My group's question is: what sectors is the Minister missing? Our group noticed that, for example, large parts of the business sector are still missing. Also the churches are missing and there will be more. In addition, the concepts of life associations and social structures, as I have mentioned, are broader than the concept of a sector. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister demands that the plans of the sectors are solid. Does this requirement of soundness include the way in which sectors engage in dialogue with their members and motivate them to embrace these plans? In addition, some coordination between the various sectors seems necessary to my group. It would be confusing if, in a given scenario, there were large differences in measures between different sectors. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The WRR/KNAW report stresses that the more serious scenarios will call heavily on the resilience of society. The word "fertilizer" is a wonderful word for someone with a scientific background. Resilience only arises when the different windings are resilient, so if these windings are properly connected to each other. This also makes a spring a wonderful metaphor for society. Resilience begins at micro level, among citizens in the different life-forms and their encounters in social structures. Resilience takes shape at micro level, in communities, villages and neighborhoods. That is why it is so important to involve local authorities, especially B and W, in the long-term approach. That is why my group once again asks: can the Minister promise that he will talk to the local authorities? The word 'fertilizer' also determines the interdisciplinary character. If you ask psychologists what the essence of the concept of spring power is, I'm blessed with many psychologists in my immediate vicinity, they point to the balance between load and load.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u40	An interruption by Mr Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u41	The Minister is asked to speak to the local authorities. What should the conversation be about and what should the outcome be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u42	I would like to thank Mr Karakus for this question. I think that the Minister should first discuss the significance of local authorities in the acute phase, secondly, the importance of local authorities in the long-term phase, and thirdly, what local authorities can do to increase the resilience in society for which local authorities are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u43	Exactly. What should be the difference with the previous approach? We have, of course, learned lessons from that. What would you like to give the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u44	This too is a very nice question. I think that in the technological paradigm let me just put it this way: in the end, the idea of one size fits all was central. Measures were announced from The Hague, which were spread over local authorities and B and W have implemented them enthusiastically, while there are great contextual differences. I would like to make a plea to allow B and W to take or not take certain measures, depending on the local situation, or to shape one form or another. This is also important, because the difference in vaccination rates between neighbourhoods, for example, can be very large. Then you need to be able to take context-specific measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u45	I think it is an interesting argument about resilience. It appeals to me very much that you should also see what can be done at the lowest level. Can I take the argument as follows? The measures now proposed in the Wpg are ministerial measures. They apply to the whole country. Is Mr Verkerk against that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you again for this question. The answer to this is a little more complex. In principle, if the need is really there, we are in favour of measures, including measures in the Wpg. I have spoken with mayors and I have spoken with them about several of these measures. They literally said to me: in one neighborhood I would like to apply Measure A and maintain it strictly and not in the other district. That has to do with the local situation in the neighborhood and the mayor's assessment. I can therefore imagine that there is a certain amount of room in measures for B and W to take decisions that are appropriate to the local situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u47	In itself, I think Mr Verkerk is right about that. But if something else is being arranged in village A or in city B to combat an epidemic or prevent infections, we obviously have the problem that the people who live and work there also go elsewhere. How does Mr Verkerk view the situation if there is a risk of contamination? How can you arrange this separately for each municipality in his view without imposing travel restrictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u48	I have also spoken about this with mayors, who said: if I get that authority, then I will be very clever with my colleagues in the region when I do and when I do not use that space to prevent waterbed effects, to use that word for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u49	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u50	We arrived here this morning. One came from Groningen and the other came from Limburg, another came from Amsterdam, and so on. We are already in this room with a lot of people from all kinds of different cities. Can Mr Verkerk still reflect on how he sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u51	I think this is a very nice question. On the contrary, I would argue that resilience starts locally. This means that you need to strengthen that resilience locally, including the motivation to adhere to the measures. You're all arguing why you can't do that locally. I know the problems when you start organizing it locally. Only, if you really want to think from resilience and from the citizen, then you also have to dare think bottom-up in a good balance with top-down. That's the core of my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr Karakus with a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u53	A fine plea, but how does it match the sectoral agreements? I agree with you that you need to deliver customization at local level, but that is not going to match the sectoral agreements you make at national level. Will you then inform the Minister: "Dear Minister, take into account local customization; that is an important framework for making a sectoral agreement'?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you very much again for this question. I would like to respond immediately and ask the Minister, when he talks with the sectors, to look at the possibilities for local tailor-made work. That is the very essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u55	No, the core of your speech is: give the mayors room to deliver customization on a local level. That is the essence of your speech; that is how I understand it. In other words, will it have to be a tough condition for sectoral agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u56	Yes and no. I'm also waiting to see what the Minister's answer is. Let me give you a very simple example. When it comes to opening restaurants and cafes, I can imagine that in one municipality the measures will be something different or concrete than in another municipality and that the sectoral plans will give room for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u57	I hear Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union pleading for a policy of bottom-up: citizens-led et cetera. In the meantime, however, he himself creates a fat democratic paradigm by stating that that power should lie with the unelected mayor. How does a bottom-up approach relate to laying down that responsibility on the unelected? And how does that relate to the almost almighty Security Council and the security regions, which are not subject to democratic control and control at all? Has their role been played forever? How does Mr Verkerk look at this from the democratic paradigm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u58	If you look from the democratic paradigm: within our party's thinking, democracy is based on the rule of law. Under the rule of law, the mayor has a state of law. That's not what our party wants. If the rule of law is changed so that the mayor is elected, we will focus on that. But the situation is not so, so there is no problem with the view I outline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u59	In conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u60	Then there is no bottom-up situation. So it's not from the population, but it's top-down again. After all, it is the mayor who imposes the measures from above and who is ultimately appointed by the government by the minister. The democratic paradigm is only becoming more complex in the situation as outlined by Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union. There is another point. Mr Verkerk also says: we are based on scientific knowledge. But in the meantime, we have seen that TU Delft has produced a report on the unscientificity and ineffectiveness of the 2G policy. What is Mr Verkerk's view of the policy that has been pursued over the past two years, in fact, on a rather unscientific basis? Can he rule out the re-use of such unscientific, fundamental rights-limiting measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem has so much to say that it is actually asking for a new speech. I assume that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u62	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u63	...you disagree. The first in bottom-up. If you assume that you have different governments rural, provincial and municipal, then it is wonderful to think bottom-up when you think from the municipality and that is completely in line with our rule of law. The second is science is very complex. At the moment you come up with measures and you have only 50% or 25% of the scientific data, you have to think further in terms of expectations, models, etc., etc. And that's just really hard. Sometimes that goes well, and sometimes that goes wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u64	With your permission, we've got all day. And you're gonna be talking a lot yourself. So I now give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last thing Mr Verkerk says, I can confirm. If the scientific knowledge is not sufficient, you have to rely on intuition and of course it has missed a lot. Mr Verkerk's favourite word is "paradigm." I think I've heard the word twenty times now. Coincidentally, one of my favorite books is The Structure of Scientific Revolutions by Thomas Kuhn. I can see Mr Verkerk nodding. Thomas Kuhn was a philosopher of science who introduced the word "paradigm" into this pioneering book. But what he argued in it is that a paradigm is a kind of state of science that one assumes for truth, until one no longer accepts for truth, and then you get a paradigm shift. Then people are going to say, "Yes, the earth wasn't flat, the earth was always round, what kind of idiot ever said the earth was flat?'. Then there will be another paradigm until it is rejected again or not. But in my opinion there has also been a paradigm shift in the whole perception of the population of the corona policy and that also leads to new insights. What insights has Mr Verkerk gained from this paradigm shift, which arose during the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u66	If you start thinking in terms of Kuhn, you'd think, "What is the knowledge we have of viruses?'. At that time they had no knowledge of the coronavirus, so they started using the knowledge of other viruses. Gradually more knowledge of the coronavirus came about and so our theories and methods have been adapted. If you use the word "paradigm" as I used it with regard to society, it is not entirely according to Kuhn, but the thought is that it is a way of thinking and a way of acting. I have indicated that I see certain changes. I still see in our society that there are considerable differences of opinion and that this also leads to an increase in the contradictions. I regret the latter, because I think we should be talking to each other. We're one society, and we're all in the same boat, just as expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u67	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u68	In a perfect world it would be, but that is just the paradigm shift that has occurred, especially between government and population. The fact is that large parts of the population, to which I do not belong, are now no longer interested in the scientific insights that come from the government, whether or not strengthened by all kinds of hitters. So there we have a huge problem, which has created a huge polarization. I have not yet heard from Mr Verkerk about how he intends to solve this from his paradigm approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr Verkerk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr Otten refers here to what I like to call the creation of post-modern society, in which each human being has its own values and also the truth struggle of science is not recognised and in which individual citizens without scientific training and without knowledge say that they know better than scientists. That's what we need to do. I think that if we look at history, we can only do science step by step, create hypotheses, reject hypotheses and come up with proposals. Our party opposes the fact that science is being called into question in this society, that scientists are being attacked for their integrity. Science in a sense gives a limited vision, but that is also the power of science and there is no reason to criticize and question science in its entirety throughout the covid debate. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u71	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u72	I just said that psychologists when you ask them what the essence of the concept of spring power is, I'm blessed with many psychologists in my environment than point to the balance between load and load. Both the carrying capacity and the load are influenced by internal and external factors. Then it is about physical and mental health, about the quality of social relations, about economic security of life, about meaning, etc. In other words, if you look at it that way, then ultimately it should not be the medical perspective that matters, but decision-making according to an integral perspective. That is why our group supports the creation of the Social Impact Team. I would like to put one more question to the Minister on this point. Can the Minister promise that there will also be expertise in the field of meaning and spirituality in the MIT? Mr. Chairman. During the pandemic, the credo was increasingly called "get one, give one." That means: for every shot we put, we also give a shot to a country that needs it. Our group's question to the government is: does this credo continue to apply in the near future and can the Minister promise that this will apply? Here too, my group is considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Our group supports the Minister's long-term approach on the main lines, but with important comments. It believes that the crisis structure needs to be clearly designed. She invites the Minister to further reflect on, and shape, the responsibility of the local authorities. And finally, she asks the Minister to further reflect on society's own responsibility from the perspective of resilience. The group looks forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I now give the floor to Mrs Prins of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. Today we give ourselves the space to discuss the situation and the direction of society during the covid a little more remotely. With both a look at the past towards the here and towards the future. Before I go into that, I say that I am Commissioner for CZ Healthcare Insurance and, by the way, also Chairman of the CJC, but also that in the first Corona year I was chairman of the Philadelphia Board of Directors, well known to the Minister. An organization that supports 9,000 people with learning difficulties at around 500 locations in the country. I remember the uncertainty, the worries, the desperation sometimes in the first months of the covid outbreak. I remember them very well. What had an impact on the residents: no more visits from parents and family. To the employees: at first no mouth caps, no vaccination, but residents who want to cuddle with you. How do you explain to a man with Down syndrome, for example, that hugging is no longer allowed? There were staff members who hadn't seen their grandchild out of care for their patients for six months. Mr. Chairman. We've been through so much as a society for the past two years. It is a good thing that there are now vaccinations, that there is an understanding of the way in which the disease is infected and the course of the disease. We are getting better and better prepared, and it is right that we as a society should focus on the fact that covid is among us for the time being and will, unfortunately, remain among us. Sometimes sleeping, sometimes active popping up in familiar, but also in unknown and violent variants. The new objectives of the cabinet, and I would like to mention first of all the social and economic continuity and two accessibility of the care chain for all, indicate that we are entering a new phase. Quite specifically, the cabinet states that it wants to work on a society where we can respond well prepared to possible outbreaks of the covid virus. The CDA Group welcomes the fact that the earlier suggestion has been taken up and the scenarios of the Academy and the WRR are now being used. I would like to start with a new chapter, but I see Mr Karakus, so I hope you will allow me to wait, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u75	Well prepared should indeed, but what does that show in the long-term vision? It has been measured at the abstraction level and otherwise I miss a lot of concreteness. Which shows it's well prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr President, may I suggest that Mr Karakus asks this question again after my speech, because I want to address a number of specific issues? This is the intention of the cabinet and I appointed it. So far, so good you would say, only as a society we still carry a heavy legacy of the past two years with us. Many in our society are still faced with the burdens and sorrows of recent years, while they are now seeing the corona virus flare up again. This means that one, bearing that burden and sorrow, is forced to prepare again mentally and practically in case that covid really shows up again in its full force. I am thinking here of the young people in our country. They have not only experienced a lack of knowledge, but also of knowledge, and this is much more worrying, according to some experts, a disadvantage in social skills. Many young people, especially MBO students, still feel lonely. They have suffered a considerable delay in their development process towards their independence. What else can the government do about it? To what extent is VWS, together with local authorities, talking to civil society organisations and youth workers to see what opportunities there are to provide extra support for young people, we ask the cabinet. I am thinking of the people who have been waiting a long, long time for an operation, who are getting up every day with pain or, worse still, getting up every day with that great degree of uncertainty whether an operation is going to happen at all. At the same time, I am thinking of those nurses who are seeing more and more colleagues drop out. I am thinking of the failure rates due to corona, which makes the workload even more intense. A vicious circle. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has noted with appreciation that the Cabinet has largely followed or will study the advice of the expert team and task force team. I am thinking here of a more coordinated cooperation between hospitals, nursing homes and general practitioners, leading to a more effective use of existing capacity. For example, the approach to treat as many covid patients at home as possible thanks to home oxygen capacity is a good solution. I do have a question. How does the Minister ensure that all hospitals are equally ready to do so, so that they do not differ from one region to another or are passed on to the general practitioners? It is right that the central management and direction, including the establishment of a National Functionality Infection Disease Control, should be set up, in the light of the experience of recent years and in order to ensure good feasibility. To what extent does this functionality already have the scope to control, for example, uniform ICT and process systems within the various GGDs, with their own responsibility? Is it not also appropriate to consider making clear agreements on direction and direction at regional level within the so-called ROAZs? Who's gonna decide it there at some point? Is there any clarity about the national direction of the ROAZs? This is important, especially when one ROAZ takes decisions in crisis time that have an impact on another region. We would like to be clear about this from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. These are most of the plans that are going to work when covid shows up again and the care is dealt with with both more covid patients and more absence, with as a risk even less room for regular care. But in the meantime, 100,000 to 120,000 people are waiting for surgery. Only 52% of hospitals run at full capacity. So our group's question is: what is the Cabinet going to do to give these citizens the prospect of timely care again? What talks does the cabinet have with the various actors concerned to break this vicious circle? What's the Cabinet thinking? More use of DBs? More attention to make the profession of the various professionals more attractive? Other ways of looking to determine which operations should or should not take place, and not by specialism but rather over-arching? Or the use of hospitals in Germany? Is there no urgent need for central control here too? Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group finds it quite shocking that more and more signals are emerging that, in addition to the death by covid, there is a lot of mortality among people because of not being treated or being treated too late. The research results of RIVM that we saw in the news this morning also confirmed this sad picture. What plans does the Minister have to shorten waiting lists now and in the future? If we do not need an emergency plan for this, we ask the Minister. We are considering a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I am also thinking of all those citizens with vulnerable health. Their lives are already marked by a handicap. The so-called ordinary life is far from theirs. Prevention is crucial for them. Especially now that the corona virus is re-emerging, we ask the Minister whether it can be promised that all vulnerable persons, and not just those who are being treated by a specialist, will be invited to a second repeat. After all, they have at least as fragile health as many 60-plussers. And in doing so, it shows that the cabinet has an eye for this large group of citizens. In this context, the CDA Group calls for a representative of people with vulnerable health to be invited as a member of the newly established MIT. I'd like a commitment from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, industry organisations have also been asked to reflect on sector plans. What can and will the sector do if the various scenarios become true? The CDA Group notes that there is still a great deal of vagueness about these sectoral plans. Let me say first of all that we are talking with civil society, with care, with education, with entrepreneurs, in order to cope with new covid situations better and different than lockdowns, of course, is embraced by the CDA Group. Central measures are not the greatest guarantee of effectiveness and should therefore apply in the event of an emergency. However, there must be central frameworks and directives so that the various sectors know where they stand. There must also be a certain uniformity, so that this can be explained to society. It can't be that the catering industry is going to stay open, but that cultural institutions are closing down. In fact, if there is a sector plan, should all the entrepreneurs in that sector adhere to it, or will one bar be at a distance of 1.5 metres and the other one not? What financial compensation is there for entrepreneurs in the event, unfortunately, of new restrictive measures? That question was also asked by GroenLinks. I'd like a response from the Minister. What are the central frameworks and guidelines? How do we ensure some uniformity and integrity within each sector plan and between sector plans? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am thinking of the consequences of covid on our society. There is a growing polarisation between people who are aware of covid and who are vaccinated and the so-called non-believers, who are not vaccinated. I am also thinking of the growing inequality of health between, as we seem to call it today, people with higher socio-economic status and those with lower socio-economic status. Unfortunately, it is often people from that last group who have a less healthy lifestyle and are therefore more vulnerable to infection. These groups also have a lower vaccination rate. In addition, we are facing a declining lack of trust and even growing distrust in our government. However, it is precisely public confidence that is crucial for the support of measures, for the proper effectiveness of the necessary measures. The question here is: what can I as a government expect from the government... as a citizen expect from the government? In an interesting and valuable note from the VNG, Beyond the crisis in corona time, Prof. Hans Boutellier is cited. He says as a government you have to ask yourself three questions. Do I see the government? In other words: be visible, close, listen, be approachable. Does the government see me? Think, for example, of young people, the students, who had to deny themselves a lot in covid time. Did they feel seen? And last but not least, what is the government doing? With the focus of attention that you have to do what you say. Mr. Chairman. These are challenging questions for the national government and the local authorities, but also, of course, for every citizen. Because as a government, you have rights and obligations, but so do any citizen. Unfortunately, we have to note that many citizens do not feel, or hardly feel, seen and/or recognized. That is why the question is: how does the government tackle its task? Does she clearly show that there is direction, direction and support for the consequences of covid and for the future with covid? We look forward to the answers of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u77	An interruption by Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Prins for her speech, which I fully endorse for the most part. I would like to see if I can get some support for my plea to make the vaccinations more freely available to people who have not received vaccination for some time. Does Mrs Prins also see a role for the government in making these vaccinations more widely available than they do now for people who, over time, have a decreasing immunity and think that a new vaccination can be useful to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u79	I'm very comfortable with that. I started with a first step, expanding that circle for the vulnerable. But it seems to me to be an excellent idea to extend it, as you have said in your speech. So I can fully confirm this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mrs Prins asked me to ask my question again at the end of her speech. I'm asking that question, and I'm worried sick about it, too. I have only heard questions to the Minister and a motion to announce, but in fact Mrs Prins says that with this long-term vision we are not at all well prepared for the coming of the virus. Is that right? Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u81	Let me say that we in the CDA Group appreciate the first steps that have been taken. I have also explicitly stated this in some parts. Think of the deployment of the National Functionality, think of using oxygen capacity in such a way that outside the hospitals care is given at home. The start of working with entrepreneurs, education and so on, the sector plans, is good. We just think it needs a few more steps. We have seen a number of very good things as a baseline, but we are also critical of a number of things that we need to take more care of. I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it was not even a complete slip of the tongue from Mrs. Prince: what can we, as a government, expect from the government? It's something you often wonder about in the present cabinet: do they even know what they're doing? Because while the omikron variant has been dominant for months, which is far less sickening and in the meantime no more serious sickening variants have emerged, the cabinet nevertheless continues to breed on new measures, even permanent legal measures, and we will be saddled with the European corona passport for at least a year to come. A grabbelton of planned policies has been presented recently, whereby, on the one hand, the minister can shop at random in administrative measures and, at the same time, shift difficult issues to sectors and caregivers. As far as the PVV is concerned, it is precisely the measures that are lacking which, if unexpectedly needed, are really effective. That is, first and foremost, increasing the ic capacity. This should be at least twice as high in terms of manning and equipment and equipment. That would put us at the same level as Belgium. In addition, more investment in care is urgently needed, especially in the regular hospital capacity, in people and salaries in order to maintain the care staff. In addition, there is a need to focus on reducing administrative burdens. Then the basis is on order for a health crisis of any kind. When it comes to the effective prevention of respiratory diseases such as corona, it is important to maintain the ventilation guidelines in the Building Decision and to ensure consistent CO-meters in indoor spaces. Instead, the Minister comes up again with a whole arsenal of restrictive measures, the effectiveness of which is often undetectable, but which do intervene seriously in a free and open society. It again talks about safe distance, opening up public places, measures for passenger transport and quarantine for travellers. And for the catering industry, for example, splash screens, running lines and other fröbel are put back on the table, which mainly creates false safety. Why not get the basics in order first with good ventilation and a reconstruction of care capacity? The cabinet shifts the possible problems in the care to the general practitioners, the neighbourhood care and home care by wanting to treat patients with more oxygen at home. If people at home are to receive this care, that care must also be available locally and adequately funded. But this part of the healthcare sector too is already overburdened and underpaid. Last Friday the GPs were here to demonstrate on the Malieveld. Only after they had literally reached the door of the Council of Ministers at the Binnenhof, was Minister Kuipers prepared to speak to a delegation of them. As far as I know, such a demonstration of general practitioners has never been discussed. And even though the Council of Ministers was running out of time, why was the Minister not at first prepared to speak to the general practitioners afterwards, when they are now getting extra work on their plate? Can the Minister indicate what the consequences of regionalising covid care for these local care providers are and whether there is anything to the contrary, both in terms of support and financial? What is the Minister's commitment in the negotiations with the health insurance companies now that the additional funds for corona are stopped? In the long-term approach, the Minister also talks about the highest possible vaccination rate and continuing efforts to reach people who have not yet been vaccinated. What is the added value now that the vaccines currently available are not based on the now dominant omikron variants and, moreover, omikron is far less sickening? In the plans, the Minister states that "the aim of the Dutch vaccination policy is to maintain a high level of protection against serious disease by COVID-19 in the widest possible proportion of the population" and therefore it remains important "to focus on a high level of vaccination and to maintain a high level of preparedness for vaccination, even if the coronavirus is less present." At the same time, in the letter on the long-term approach, the Cabinet also states that "vaccination does not fully protect against infection and that even after vaccination and/or an infection through, a new infection may occur. In addition, we know that the extent of built-up protection decreases as time progresses." So what does, in view of these own observations of the cabinet, say that high vaccination rate now about achieving a high level of protection? At the same time, it is stated in the plans that the repetitions will now be offered to vulnerable target groups. In short, does this cabinet still believe in its own supposed purpose? How does this relate to the statements of the German Health Minister Lauterbach, who stated last week that vaccines adapted to the current variants will not be available until the end of October at the latest and sufficient vaccines are available for the elderly at the most? Moreover, while the Cabinet repeatedly and emphatically states that there is freedom of choice as regards vaccination and that it "does not intend to restrict this freedom of choice," it states in the same report that "vaccinating is a free choice in the Netherlands. However, this choice is not without consequences." Can the Minister clarify that statement? After all, how free is a choice when it comes to consequences? Can the Minister rule out the possibility that these are restrictions of freedom and that there is, after all, an indirect imposition or urge for vaccination? I'd like a response. In the same perspective, it is also relevant that the option has been put back on the table to use the corona tickets and to create a legal basis for that. Despite the fact that TU Delft research has shown that this 2G policy is completely ineffective, the Minister opens the door to these measures again. Similar conclusions have also been drawn from German research that 2G or 3G measures for the prevention of infections are very limited in effectiveness. In short, this freedom-limiting measure offers mainly false security, but above all seriously violates the fundamental rights of citizens and is therefore disproportionate. In addition, the Minister will put it on the table if the sectors themselves see sense in it. That is also a false choice, if a lockdown is placed as an alternative. Is the Minister prepared to finally store that corona ticket where it belongs for good: in the trash? Or should he not let his bosses in Brussels hang the DCC regulation in the air like a sword of Damocles? Mr. Chairman. Then on the plans for the first tranche of the Wpg, the Public Health Act: once again collective legally binding measures to limit contacts such as the 1.5 meter and limiting group size without any clear justification as to effectiveness and proportionality. At the same time, it is stated that the discussions with the experts stated that "a basis for taking general anti-contact measures has been suggested, but this does not sufficiently safeguard the balance with respect to fundamental rights." But does the government not accept that consideration of fundamental rights, as they come up with such anti-contact measures that they want to legally anchor? What justification justifies the effectiveness of such measures? In the written response, the Minister indicated that he did not wish to disclose the reports of the discussions with the experts and the list of participants, as these would be confidential conversations. What kind of shady state is that? Why should we, as parliamentarians, not be allowed to do our job? On the contrary, it is crucial to be able to assess what expertise has been used to enable such far-reaching legislation. The fact that the Minister invites the experts in a personal capacity and on the basis of fast availability is not an argument. Then the Minister simply didn't have the process properly and dressed up with haste. Transparency and Verifiability should be the starting point. Is the Minister still prepared to provide these reports and the list of participants? If not, shouldn't the consequence be to re-consult experts, but not on the basis of confidentiality? I'd like a response. The same applies to the OMT minutes. Why does the Minister keep this "in the interest of the State" under review, as indicated in the collective letter of 7 June? What is there to hide from our Parliament? Also, on the basis of Article 58e (1), introductory wording and point (b) of the draft law, a (corona) admission permit would be possible again per ministerial arrangement based on a test, vaccination or recovery. This is also mentioned in the internet consultation in the letter of association the Fourth Golf. Can the Minister state whether this is true, and if so, how this relates to the previous destructive report of TU Delft? Furthermore, the Minister now wishes to designate COOVID-19 as a so-called A1 disease. Wouldn't it be much more proportionate to do so only if actually a more sickening variant appeared again instead of relying on its threat? I'd like a response. In addition, the Minister wants to provide not only for a suspension procedure for both Chambers in the case of measures, but also for an urgent procedure which can only be blocked by the House of Representatives. Can the Minister explain why this power does not belong to the First Chamber in the same way as before in the Twm and on the basis of the Janssen motion at the time? On 28 June, the Minister sent a letter on the international pandemic instrument or the World Trade Organisation pandemic treaty. The cabinet has already supported such a treaty with legally binding agreements, in which the WTO has a central role to play. How does the Minister view the great influence of the Chinese state dictatorship within the WTO and thus within this treaty? Is it appropriate to conclude a global treaty with an organisation where one country of that global cooperation, Taiwan, is already categorically excluded from the WTO under the orders of Communist China? The letter outlines the commitment of the Netherlands. One of the points is the strengthening of primary health systems. Can the Minister indicate when he will first start in the Netherlands to get the healthcare sector back in order and invest in ic capacity in particular? He doesn't need a globalist treaty for that, does he? Can the Minister also indicate what the legally binding nature of the proposed commitment will be? Earlier, the Minister spoke mainly about the exchange of information, but apparently it is more far-reaching. Furthermore, the letter quotes: "The cabinet will work towards an inclusive negotiation process with significant involvement of civil society (with specific attention to young people and women's organisations), including from the global south, and highlight the importance of a human rights and gender transformation approach in the relevant elements of a new pandemic instrument." Can the Minister translate this wokekwauwe into normal Dutch? What does this have to do with this treaty? What about involving our own parliament? Can we only sign at the cross after the texts have been negotiated? What about involving our own population and not just the global south? May it be allowed to express itself in a referendum on this treaty if there is to be meaningful involvement? Meanwhile, the cabinet has already authorised the unelected European Commission to negotiate on behalf of the Member States. Why is the cabinet throwing our sovereignty through the shredder again? What is included if it is mainly the Dutch population? Finally, Mr President. As a icing on the cake, the Minister also wants to keep the temporary law for the corona detector app, the Temporary Law Notification Application covid-19 in the air. Can the Minister explain why he cannot say goodbye to this totally ineffective flop? Or, given the grabbelton of policy intentions, are there yet plans to use this instrument to the left or right for perhaps freedom-limiting measures? Because the moment it looks like we're done with everything, the Minister is still looking for something to fill his toolbox. Please increase the salaries of our health care staff, the general practitioners and the capacity for the ic. Mr. Chairman. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Janssen of the SP, who will also speak on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr President. With Mr Van Hattem's last words on the need to raise salaries in health care, I agree 100%. But you won't be surprised. Mr. Chairman. When I signed up for this debate a few months ago, I was still under the impression that the second investigation by the Security Research Council would appear before the summer. When it turned out that this was not the case, I changed my speaking time drastically, but I had not counted on the President of the Research Council, who, on Friday last, publicly asked for the lessons from the first period of the coronapandemic. But I have kept it to my limited speaking time. Mr. Chairman. Based on signals so far, the Research Council wonders whether the cabinet has sufficiently incorporated the lessons into its preparations for future revivals and prepared scenarios for this. My first question to the ministers is therefore whether they can reassure the Chamber, the Research Council and the inhabitants of the Netherlands. Is the Research Council wrong? My second question to the ministers is whether, like the Prime Minister, they agree that I am quoting just a moment when you have to go back to the future, otherwise we are just looking back and still, and then things happen and we are reflecting. Mr. Chairman. With this attitude of the cabinet, you'd almost say to the Research Council that they'd better spend their time on something other than investigating the coronapandemic. The cabinet does not seem to be waiting for that, at least not the Prime Minister. I would like to hear a response from the ministers. This brings me to the second research by the Research Council over the period September 2020 to July 2021. On the other hand, where the first part was still about a period where one could say that it has largely happened to us, the second is about a period when conscious policy choices have been made: conscious policy choices, which are whether they always had the effectiveness that was expected and proposed to us by the cabinet. The Research Council has expressed the expectation that this report will be published around the summer. We now know that this means that it will appear just after the summer. My question to the Ministers is whether the second part has already been submitted for comment. I know the workings of the Research Council. Once you've been a direct object of such an investigation, you'll know about it. I am not asking you to ask questions about this now. That would be inappropriate, but I would ask this because I would like to hear from the ministers that the recommendations which will undoubtedly be included in that second investigation are already being proactively taken up by the cabinet rather than something done with them after the second research report has been made public. Can the Ministers promise that this will happen, so that we have not lost any advice to combat the pandemic more effectively in the event of a pandemic which is re-entering? Mr. Chairman. Nor do I intend to repeat the debate in the House of Representatives which has just taken place. I don't think that's a good thing. But the dominant tone in that debate was, at least, my aftertaste that the ministers are not taking sufficient control. I can very well imagine the sentiment, even among the rulers, that if you hear for a long time with every measure you take that the sector itself can do better, you also at some point think: do it yourself; let's see how it can be done. But a new pandemic is not a stage for a sentimental struggle. The interests of our society are too great for that. The first signs from the sectors were that drastic measures that would cut deep into one's own meat would not be taken. The government's perseverance will be looked at again. Soberly, there will soon be no industry that will throw its own money into the fireplace. So we already know in advance that if the need arises, this will not work. Can the Ministers explain again why they think this approach is going to work to combat a pandemic? But if we first have to prove experimentally that it doesn't work, we'll be late and a pandemic will catch up with us soon. Do the ministers really believe that this is how it is going to work? And to quote Remco Campert here: "No harm in keeping up appearances, as long as you know better yourself." I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is also right that this is often about the workers in the care sector, quite rightly so. But what if I light up the teachings? If code red also requires schools to remain open, then who should teach these lessons? There has been a shortage of teachers for many years. We can't just fill in some sick teachers. There's not enough teachers coming in. A lot of older teachers retire. There is tightness, also in the education market. In particular, those older teachers are also an important risk group in a covid pandemic. In the first wave of the pandemic, teachers have stood unprotected in front of the classroom. Unprotected, with all the consequences. We can't let that happen again, can we? They cannot become the new group which, like the care workers, are also faced with long covid and other problems because they are exposed to classroom protection. I would like a response from the ministers. Do we agree that no teacher comes unprotected in front of a class? What is the room for an individual teacher to consider his functioning in such a pandemic? Can he say no? I can tell you that the adage that has so far applied "make it negotiable at your school" does not work in practice, because there is a failure; there are already too few teachers. Then your collegiality is called upon to do it anyway. Those are the same colleagues you're gonna have to get back to work with. But that's not allowed, that's not good. It's already proven that "make it negotiable at your school" doesn't work. A lot of people with temporary contracts don't dare say no. What are we gonna do about it? What hard agreements are being made on this? Is a no going to be a no when a teacher really doesn't dare to do it himself? Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question about the timetable this summer. What specific scenarios have been developed for this summer? The OVV is asking for that, too. Or is it indeed waiting to see if the sector plans are going to work? But what if they don't work and the measures in the sector plans don't fit in with the developments of the pandemic when it comes? What scenarios have been prepared, or has little been learned, and should we develop them as in recent years? And is there any additional legislation in these scenarios for this summer? I am just asking, because the ministers will now be sufficiently aware that this Chamber attaches great importance to determining power for Parliament. I do not want to review the whole crisis here so far. That is all going to happen; for that we are still too much in it and too little in it. That is why I want to have the full overview of the research council's three investigations first, to see what has been necessaryly linked and what influence policy choices have had on this. And it is also important to have an overview of how the parliament is informed about these two Chambers, not just the Lower House or the Upper Chamber. Was that timely and complete? Mr President, what worries me, all things considered, is the Prime Minister's response to the update of the first investigation of the Research Council: enough looking back and thinking ahead. But we must learn from the past to shape the present and the future without making avoidable mistakes. It's about avoidable mistakes. It is almost exactly a year since the cabinet apologized that they had been so busy with the present that they hadn't had time to look back from the past and learn from it. About a year ago; we can't do that again, can we? I therefore call on the ministers to look back now and learn from the past. And not with the method that we have unfortunately seen on other cabinet files: putting recommendations next to you, saying that you are doing them, but in your way, and explaining them just a little bit differently. I call on the ministers to stay away from this trickbox. There can be no doubt that the cabinet wants to learn from the past. The 320,000 years of healthy life lost by the RIVM are sufficient reasons for the SP and 50PLUS to continue to look back and learn from the past. I look forward to the answer from the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u87	I would like to return to the part of Mr Janssen's speech on the new Wpg and the authority of this Chamber. Perhaps Mr Janssen will be able to make a little more clear what he sees before him of controlling this Chamber in that modified Wpg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u88	At least I want something in the Wpg. In October 2020, when dealing with the Temporary Law measures covid-19, a motion has already been passed, tabled by me and supported by a majority of this Chamber, which said: go do something and ensure decisive control. Until then, nothing happened to that conversion to the Wpg. If we had not adopted this motion and the bill had not been passed, despite our insistence, we would have had no say at all. So that adaptation of the Wpg should have been there by now. My point is that as a parliament we decide how to regulate our control. That will have to be done. What that looks like in the Wpg is the subject of debate, but we should have had that long ago, and we were promised that at the end of last year. At the beginning of this year, none of them appeared to have been worked on, as we understand from this minister. So I want to have the debate at the Wpg and my question is: what are the scenarios? Is there any additional legislation for this summer if it is necessary because the pandemic is rekindling? And how are we involved in this? That is my answer to Mr Van der Voort's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u89	Of course, we have known Mr Janssen a little longer. I'm sure he's already thinking about how that power should take shape. That's actually my question. How would you see the effect of that on you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u90	We are going to deal with the whole of Wpg now, but we do not have a concrete proposal before that. I suggest that we do this in the treatment of the Wpg and then we look together to see how we find a majority. Parliament must have control over measures that we then agree with each other and lay down legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u91	That is, of course, a good time to talk about this point, but if the Wpg is here, it is already through the Dutch House of Representatives. This is something that is legally anchored. We can no longer amend this here. Does Mr Janssen then provide a novelle? Or how does he see the parliamentary involvement of the First Chamber, if he still wants to propose it at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u92	That depends on what the House of Representatives has decided. If the House of Representatives has taken note of the way the House of Representatives feels about control of Parliament and does not get over it too easily, it will not be very complicated. If we do, then we have a new discussion here, as we have done before. So no, we cannot amend here. That's the way it is. I hope, however, that the House of Representatives has been left with something of the last two years and of the debate on the power of parliament. We have arranged this not only for ourselves, but for the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I now give the floor to Mr Otten of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. The traction of the covid policy with the population is completely gone after two years of incompetence and unfair information by the predecessor of Minister Kuipers, Hugo de Jonge. That is the key problem of the long-term choices that Minister Kuipers is now facing. During the first debate this First Chamber held with Minister Kuipers, on 21 February this year the Minister had just taken office. I quote: "The Rutte IV cabinet contains an important construction error. Minister Kuipers' predecessor is still part of the cabinet, albeit in another post. This makes it impossible for Minister Kuipers to carry out the catharsis that is now urgently needed and to distance himself from the bad policies of his predecessor. However, we advise Minister Kuipers to do so, because that is the first necessary condition to make the Netherlands "a cool and sweet country again," to use the words of Prime Minister Rutte, and to end polarization." So much for our advice to Minister Kuipers of 21 February 2022. Catharsis is the key word here: a cleansing, purifying therapy that takes care of traumatic events from the past, so that they can be processed and people can move forward with their lives. However, this essential step, which Minister Kuipers should have taken when changing the guard with his predecessor towards the Dutch people, was omitted from political calculation. Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the chairman of the Research Council for Safety, who published his research on the covid approach last week, also noted this. I quote Mr Dijsselbloem in the Volkskrant last week. Dijsselbloem said: "The former minister and the former secretary-general have so far defended what they have done. There was no room or time to reflect. The new minister has also skipped reflection." What should have happened here is that this new minister, with a solid medical background, should have met us, the Dutch people, honestly with a bad news talk: "People, I'm sorry, you've been treated by a quack for two years." But that didn't happen. For political reasons, the Minister decided to pretend that nothing had gone wrong. He covered his predecessor's mistakes with the cloak of love. Mr. Chairman. Of course, people aren't crazy. With clumsy campaigns and long-winded press conferences, we were encouraged to prick, prick, prick. We're poking ourselves out of this crisis. In doing so, Minister Hugo de Jonge has given the people a false presentation of things. He's caused an unprecedented polarization in this country. There hasn't been such a large polarization since the Corner and Cod Twisten in the fifteenth century. This was a confused, quarrelsome situation between two groups of Dutch, the Corners and the Cods, in Holland, Utrecht and Zeeland. It lasted more than 150 years in the end. Let's hope it doesn't take too long this time. De Jonge's one-dimensional and not always fair transparent approach has created the breeding ground for this division, which has unfortunately been further aggravated by conspiracy thinkers and hitters. I happened to notice this morning that the inciting wappie-neurologist Jan Bonte was arrested last night by the Justice Department for all kinds of criminal activities. I was also allowed to do so many times last week, even last week, to be the target of all sorts of incitings and threats from this neurologist on Twitter. He calls himself The Stinging Bumblebee. He's been removed from Twitter by the way, I saw. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, tensions in society are increasing even further, with farmers furious with absurd nitrogen plans imposed on them by decree, and with the Dutch middle class who can no longer pay the bills due to rapidly rising inflation and exploding energy bills. Is the Minister correct on the radar what has been done by his predecessor's inimitable corona policy for two years? How will the Minister restore confidence in significant parts of the Dutch population? This is the first step needed for a successful long-term approach to the coronavirus. If trust doesn't come back, every approach we discuss here is doomed to failure. Yesterday, the Minister announced that the GD's should prepare for an unprecedented vaccination campaign in the autumn. There must be 1.5 million shots per week. The Minister forgets one thing. When the Dutch people wanted to be vaccinated massively, at the end of 2020, there were miles of traffic jams for vaccination centres. In particular, when elderly people wanted to reach a booster at the end of 2021, Hugo de Jonge and the GGD had led the GGD by an out-of-class politician called "GGD'. It was a mess, just like it was when it was tested in 2020. To the extent of disaster, the government in the summer of 2020 thought that corona was over and failed to prepare for future waves. The absolute low point was the "Dansen-met-Janssen" corona explosion created by Hugo de Jonge himself in the summer of 2021. Then he really should have been replaced by a competent physician right away. We also tabled a motion to replace Minister De Jonge with a competent physician in this Upper Chamber as a matter of high exception. But that didn't happen. A majority of this room wanted to continue with De Jonge, who helped us off shore in the ditch. You all have the responsibility for the enormous polarization in Dutch society, I say to all the parties who voted against this motion at that time. Soft healers make stinking wounds! Now that Minister Kuipers finally wants to organise it properly, many Dutch people no longer need new vaccinations. That's because of their experiences over the last two years. People feel cheated and don't see the point anymore, also because, despite the stings, they have often experienced a corona infection, sometimes even several times. Is this Minister aware of this vote in the country? How is he going to recover the traction for his policy, which has disappeared from the population? Mr. Chairman. When I speak to people around me who have been vaccinated just like me, I find very little enthusiasm for being vaccinated again. People think it's enough. One is prepared to accept the coronavirus as an annoying virus with which one will have to learn to live. Mr. Chairman. You know us as practical people in the middle of society. So what elements are relevant to the long-term co-vid approach? We have listened, also to doctors, and from that came a number of do's-and-don'ts for the future corona strategy. I'll start with the don'ts, so what we absolutely shouldn't do in future corona outbreaks. First of all, no new lockdowns. Secondly, do not close the schools again. Our young people have experienced considerable learning disadvantages and it is already taking a great deal of effort to catch up with them. Especially among teenagers, a kind of indifferent attitude has taken place after two years of corona. It has upset their lives, certainly those of the early high school students, who have actually had their entire high school period to do with corona. Thirdly, do not close the universities again. Fourthly: do not close the shops again and, unless there is no other way to do so, do not close the catering industry again. And also very important: not to re-present the vaccine as the magic bullet solution, as Hugo de Jonge did, but to use, present and explain a range of possibilities to the population, as if it were a mixing panel that you can change the slides, depending on the situation. All this must not happen. What's to happen if Corona doesn't come back? First of all, clarity on the measures in a fair and transparent way, especially for vulnerable groups. For example, explain that vaccinations help to get less sick if you are infected with corona. Also explain that it helps to prevent lung covid. An extensive Italian scientific study was published on this subject this week. After two vaccinations, the risk of lung covid is already falling dramatically, according to this study of Azzolini and Levi, I say to the Minister, who is undoubtedly familiar with it. Explain this kind of thing to the people, is our advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u95	I would like to make a point of order. We are talking about the policy of the last two years of the cabinet. I think it is very special that one minister should be highlighted every time, even though he was primarily responsible for this. It was the policy of the cabinet. The Minister is also not present to defend himself. So I would like to see that something more neutral. That's a point of order. Second, I have a question. I hear you say on the one hand that for the future I also like to look to the future, learning from the past vaccination should not be the solution. At the same time, I hear you say: tell people that vaccination helps against lung covid et cetera. Is vaccination not one of the basic protections, apart from all kinds of other things we can do, just to ensure that covid has as little impact on everyone's life as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u96	First of all, I would like to turn to Mrs Prins' point of order; I am not surprised that she brings that up. In our constitutional law, it is so arranged that the minister is the successor to and responsible for his predecessor. In the past, rulers also resigned because of things which they had neither part nor part of, but which their predecessor had done. I refer to Mr Van der Steur on Justice, who had to resign through the Teeven Deal. All pastors were involved. We had Mr Van Eekelen of the VVD, who, as Minister of Defence, together with your party colleague Van der Linden, had to resign years later because of the passport affair. It is not so that we can say that the previous minister is gone, and there is no further message to this minister. He is, as it were, following the policy of his predecessor. And that predecessor has turned it into a game after all. You don't want to hear it because it belongs to you, but that's the reality. That's what we've got to deal with now. It's what Jeroen Dijsselbloem says, namely that there hasn't been a single moment of reflection. That catharsis, the cleaning of "boys, everything went wrong, we're gonna start with a clean slate" never happened. So I agree with Mrs Prins that vaccination can be very useful, especially for vulnerable groups. But many people in the Netherlands have become very sceptical about vaccination because of the policy of the minister's predecessor, your party colleague De Jonge. That's what we've got to deal with. That's why I'm putting this on the table. If you want to treat the patient, you have to start with the diagnosis. You will then find that the previous doctor has not applied proper treatment. We will have to accept that and internalize it. Then we can start the proper treatment, I say to Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u97	I would like to comment on this. Of course, I know as well as you do the history of how we deal with the succession of responsibilities. I'm familiar with that, too. At the same time, we are still talking about the policy of the cabinet. Consistently, you keep mentioning a minister's name. That's what matters to me. It will be a personal attack, not an attack on policy. Of course, we can be critical of the policy. I don't deny that to anyone, but I find the attack on a person a little too easy. That was the point I wanted to make. The question of reflection must be put to this cabinet. The research reports and also the parliamentary surveys are due to come out of this period. I am curious, like you, to hear the answers to this question, but I assume and I am sure that there will be some reflection. I hope that our discussion in this debate will give rise to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u98	I'd like to respond to that. Of course, I would not just like to mention Mr De Jonge. I would also like to say the name Mark Rutte. I think he has a very big responsibility in this too. In practice, he used your partymate De Jonge as some sort of "bottleball minister" to take the hits. That's the practice. I think the Prime Minister has a great responsibility for this too. He tried to manage the corona crisis with a lot of spider and imaging. This has been evidently worse than in many other countries, because intuitive and lack of knowledge has often failed to make the right choices. This applies not only to your party colleague De Jonge, but certainly to the Prime Minister. I've been up to that before. In that sense, I would like to respond to you a little bit, I say to Mrs Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u99	I thought there was a second element in Mrs Prince's interruption. That was the impact of the injections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u100	Vaccinations. "Injections" is a word used mainly by wappies, chairman. I wouldn't dare take that word in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u101	I don't want to associate with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u102	I've been vaccinated myself. I'm not against vaccinations. I have been informed by doctors and people with knowledge about what is causing the vaccination in particular. Of course, Mr Van der Voort also has a lot of expertise in this area. You have two types of defense: the humoral defence and the cellular defence. The humoral defence disappears quite quickly after vaccination, but the cellular defences by T-cells remain active for quite some time, even after vaccination. The latest scientific evidence shows that people who become ill get less lung covid when they are vaccinated. They're getting less sick too. People who get sick are mainly older people and overweight people over 55 or 60. Certain groups are also less well achieved with vaccination. I'll get to that in a minute. You will not hear us here shouting that vaccination is poison, or all those cries you hear all day long from all those hotshots. Absolutely not. People are not objectively informed about this. They have heard for two years: pricking, pricking, pricking, then we can go anywhere and we can go on vacation again; take a prick and everything is solved. That one-dimensional approach with a kind of wishful thinking has naturally been followed. We must now deal with the consequences. Minister Kuipers in particular has something to do with this. That is why I say: come with a catharsis, a cleansing, or a reflection, as Jeroen Dijsselbloem calls it. Then you can put this behind you and we can move on. But that moment has been skipped, because people do not want to do that political account and are afraid of getting into trouble. Well, then I think, what's more important? The public health of the Netherlands or the political problems of some minister, who has just proved not to have done so well? This will then be established in a survey in two years' time, but that is mustard after the meal. If you believe in vaccinating, you need to be able to explain that to people now. Personally, I think that people who have vaccinated, not all of them are going to get another three, four, five shots. That certainly applies to the younger people, so my feeling is based on what I hear around me. For older people, it's a different story and I would advise you to do so. I'm not a doctor, I don't give medical advice, but of course there's another story. Mr Van der Voort and Mr Kuipers are also very good at advising us on this. We are extremely pleased that at least now there is a good physician at this post. We have always insisted on this, even at the beginning of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u104	It was only supposed to happen then. Better late than never, but a lot of precious time has been lost. Shall I continue my speech, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u105	One moment. I note that the term "prick" can be used, as opposed to "injection."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u106	That's what Minister Hugo de Jonge said: pricking, pricking, pricking. So I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u107	I'm looking at Mrs. Prince for a very last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u108	I'm glad we agree on one point, Mr. Otten. We both believe that vaccination is very important and that both of us and everyone here should do everything in our power to ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated, bearing in mind what Mr Van der Voort has proposed. Mr. Van der Voort, I think you already have your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u109	With that note that I'm not for the unlimited vaccination of children. I think that risk groups in particular should be vaccinated. That is what the policy should be more focused on. That is also evident from the ic-figures. During the previous wave, the ic's were particularly full of unvaccinated fifties and older. It is mainly about the risk groups, for example people with underlying medical problems. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. What is to be done now? Clarity about the measures, especially for vulnerable groups, in a fair and transparent manner. I've already pointed to long covid. Explain the scientific facts better, is our advice. That can well be accompanied by uncertainty. They have done so in Denmark, for example. That is where we have been said: we are making this choice; on the basis of current scientific knowledge, we think we should do this, but it may be that we are wrong and that we need to change policy. Such a thing has never happened in the Netherlands, because the cabinet has a kind of fear of the people that one will think for oneself. To avoid that, a campaign came in the vein of "this is the story, pricking, pricking, pricking, it's all gonna be okay, and then you can go on vacation again." Then you don't take people seriously. I say take people seriously and do not treat them as small children, as has happened in recent years. And start a targeted vaccination campaign for 70-plussers, because there are the largest groups at risk, as I can see from conversations with doctors. From 60-plus, 65-plus, somewhere in those parts, the risks are beginning to increase considerably. Add to that: how do you convince hard-to-reach groups like for example... I choose my words very carefully.. the older first generation non-Western immigrants. Doctors tell me that they were a significant part of the ic patients with corona. Perhaps Mr Van der Voort can confirm that. How do you convince these groups of the usefulness of vaccination? Has the Minister developed a targeted policy for this and can he outline the outline of this policy for us? Of course, we all hope it's finished with that corona and it won't come back. But does the Minister have a clear policy for mouth caps in nursing homes and old people's homes if it does come back? Is that clearly communicated? Are there still sufficient protective equipment in stock? Billions of mouth caps, gloves, jackets and the like were purchased in 2020, but can these protective equipment still be used if we face new problems in 2023 and 2024? We would also like to ask the Minister about the requirements for holidays and travel abroad. Is there a need for a recovery certificate or QR code? What is the status of the DCC, the so-called digital corona certificate? I think people would also like to be clear about this. Mr. Chairman. Has the decision-making structure been streamlined, or are we going to see all kinds of contradicting OMT members and virologists in the talk shows every day, so that the population is once again unable to get a grip on them at all? And the next thing is very important. How is the Minister going to organise that regular care in a new corona outbreak can go ahead well and not, like the past two years, become the child of the account? According to doctors and experts, the continued over-mortality may well be related to the after-life effect of delayed care during the coronapandemic. Our group, like many media, has already had access to the RIVM report that has just been published. It's a comprehensive report on delayed care. The conclusions of this RIVM study, which also dominated all front pages this morning, do not lie. They're extremely shocking. Due to delayed care, more than 320,000 healthy years were lost during the corona crisis. This is not surprising in itself if all attention from the care sector and the cabinet goes exclusively to corona. So a lot of others fall out of the boat. Unfortunately, this study by the RIVM shows that it is much worse than many thought. I also read the interviews with the researchers in the newspaper this morning. They also said that it was so bad, we didn't really expect it. The lesson that can be learned from this is that the so-called rule of rescue, the principle that the greatest need prevails, must also be the guiding principle in corona time. RIVM is looking for solutions mainly in the direction of independent treatment centres, private clinics and foreign hospitals. But when the pandemic comes back, isn't it wiser to find solutions through regional corona centres so that regular care can proceed as far as possible? Mr. Chairman. What about the chief medical officer, replacing the cumbersome OMT and the extremely time-consuming and poaching Health Council polder? This was agreed in the government agreement and the Minister promised me in the debate on 21 February this year that he would come forward with a further elaboration of the chief medical officer. Our question is whether this effect is already available. Can the minister give us that? And while we are dealing with questions for the Minister: why didn't the Minister actually address the thousands of general practitioners who demonstrated at the Binnenhof on Friday against the total bureaucracy of their profession, which led to a bizarre administrative workload? Our group was surprised that the Minister did not even bother to talk to this important group of healthcare professionals, who play a key role in the Dutch healthcare system. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we come to the issue of long-term legislation. The Ministry has now had two and a half years to prepare a sound, permanent bill through the Public Health Act. The Ministry has for too long assumed that one could continue to use the disproportionate Temporary Law measures covid-19. That is the disproportionate law that was finally put into effect in May this year by this First Chamber for far too serious a violation of our fundamental rights. Our group had warned of this from day one. Mr. Chairman. We are now seeing a bit of the same ease in making permanent legislation. Why is this taking so long? Is there insufficient legal expertise at the VWS Ministry? Then something must be done quickly. Or is there another reason? What is the cause of these persistent delays? Is it perhaps an idea that the Minister of Justice stands up? For in the past, the Ministry of Justice kept a watchful eye on all the laws of the departments. It interfered with the legal aspects. Let's not waste time, that's our advice. Mr. Chairman. We are curious about the Minister's long-term plans, which will enable us to find a way to live with the consequences of corona without once again disturbing and disrupting our society, as in the past two years. We look forward to answering our questions and explaining the Minister's long-term plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Otten. There is an interruption by Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u111	I listened with interest to Mr Otten's story. Mr Otten has said a number of nice things. When Mr Otten looks back on the policy of the previous cabinet, I notice that he keeps saying: remember, I knew it; I knew it for weeks and I knew what should have happened. Mr Otten can even look in detail at what is happening mentally in the cabinet and the current minister will also have difficulty avoiding it. I note that I find that special. However, my question is as follows. Mr Otten says that there are a number of don'ts in the current cabinet: this must never happen, and that must never happen. My question is: how can Mr Otten say that if he cannot predict how contagious a future virus is and how much the disease burden is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u112	First, let me respond to the first point. Mr Verkerk has seen very clearly that we have warned of this from the outset. The beauty of this First Chamber is that we have very good Acts and that our Griffin has a very good video service so you can watch all the speeches back. All you have to do is type in "Otten" and look for "activities in plenary." There you can see all the speeches again. You can look back on all speeches about corona from 2020. We said: "With the RIVM model, you are behind the facts. You have to look ahead, not backwards. That is not a good method at all, but the Minister does not understand it, so: deal with it differently. Don't take it so absolutely." We all said that. We said: boost the booster; where is the booster and where are the tests? We all said that in the beginning. We said, go test it. In the first month of the corona crisis, I sent an e-mail to all the members of the First Chamber about the fact that we had to go through the First Chamber meetings and arrange tests. Everyone criticized me. They said, "What the hell are you thinking? Do you want priority in testing? Those Otten, that's something!" They wouldn't even test it then. We said right away, go test it. We also looked at what they were doing abroad. After all, it is a global crisis. Unfortunately, Italy was a little ahead of us with all these deaths. Everything happened in the rest of the world, too. Then you don't sit here in a bunker with all kinds of different people. Then you won't meet with 20 OMT members endlessly at the Catshuis. Then you're gonna see what the rest of the world is doing and how we can do this fast. It's an uncertain situation, so you have to make decisions based on intuition, based on judgment. We can see that that did not go well. They don't have that judgment in the top of the cabinet. They certainly did not, but hopefully that is the case with Mr Kuipers now. I think a lot of peace has been created on the medical front and fortunately. But that judgment is not there; we also see that in other areas. During the General Reviews I told the Prime Minister that based on intuition, based on non-complete knowledge and without a formal reasoning process, you would come to the right conclusions. That gift was not given to these rulers. We have raised this issue in all contributions on corona from the summer of 2020. You can see all that again. I should have listened to that, as I say to Mr Verkerk. Anyway, maybe it helped a little bit. I forgot the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u113	The question is how you look at an upcoming corona crisis and how you advise us on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u114	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr. Chairman, for a moment. Mr Otten finally confirms how good he is, how good he sees it all and how he rises above us. I'd like to give him that. What matters to me is that Mr Otten indicates all kinds of things that the cabinet should not do. My question is: how can he indicate this if he doesn't know what the infectiousness and the disease burden of the new virus is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u116	If we do a new lockdown now, the whole business will die. People have run out of reserves and can't do that anymore. They have to pay off their tax debts. People are simply not going to accept that anymore, I say to Mr Verkerk. That's my gut. My radar in society says people aren't gonna accept lockdowns anymore, even in a more contagious variant. So you're gonna have to find another solution. We have provided a number of tools for this. If you want the whole country back in lockdown with curfews and such, I don't think people are going to do that after what happened now. I used to cross-reference it with someone in a conversation with the blitz in London. I lived in London myself. The bombs flew in 1940 and all those V1s came down, but the British continued unflinching. They just went to a nightclub and "well, sometimes a bomb fell." People get used to it at some point. They go on with their lives and they don't want to make those sacrifices anymore. I'm sure of it. I am not a wappie at all, and I am not against vaccination at all, but I am convinced that this is the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u118	Not that I'm so brilliant. I think there's just a lack of intuition among the previous decision-makers. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u119	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u120	I have to say that Mr Otten has not yet answered my question. I understand that Mr Otten has a certain feeling that says: society does not accept it. I'm asking another question. How can Mr Otten say that measures x, y or z should never be taken if Mr Otten does not know what the infectious and disease burden of a future virus is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u121	You were just talking about paradigms. Based on where we stand today, this is my advice: don't do it. But if the facts change, I'm happy to change my opinion, I don't know who said that, Churchill or anything. If thousands of people die here a day, it's gonna be a different story. Then we'll have to adjust the situation. But that has always been my argument: adapt the situation to reality. And in the policy it happened that reality had to adapt to the RIVM model. We discussed this at length when we were still in the Knight's Room. Then we often said: this is the wrong approach; you should not look in the rear-view mirror, but you should turn on the headlights and look forward. We need a proactive policy. In our assessment, you must first make it clear that we have had that phase, that we are done with it and that we are now going to do it differently. But that moment didn't come. It just went on silently. That is what Jeroen Dijsselbloem of the Research Council rightly says: a moment of reflection was deliberately not chosen. That would have been much better to increase public confidence in the new approach. Well, that trust is now well damaged. There are a lot of people who just don't trust it. I do, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you. I think we've exchanged enough now. One last question and a very brief answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u123	I don't want to ask another question. I only note that Mr Otten's 'don't' is a 'don't' until there is a serious virus. I think this is a very clear advice. The second piece I embrace, the first one I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u124	I think we've exchanged enough thoughts then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u125	We're not dogmas. Perhaps Mr Verkerk is a little more dogmatic than we are. On the contrary, we are very practical. This would be our advice right now. It's not a biblical law of Medes and Persians. At the moment I say: try to avoid lockdowns. That's our advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u126	Thank you for your speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga from the group of the same name.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is yet another debate on this subject. That's useful and good. In the Lower House, a preparatory parliamentary committee of inquiry has started to look back and evaluate. I would therefore like to use this time to ask questions about the current and future state of affairs on this dossier. Mr. Chairman. The temporary law measures died not so long ago in the First Chamber. That's the law we stopped here. At the end of May of this year we found it quite enough here in the First Chamber. The temporary nature of the Temporary Law measures was severely under pressure. The government states that the Public Health Act is now being amended in order to be able to take collective and binding measures. I quote the Minister in his letter of 13 June: "In the two previous letters on the long-term approach of the coronavirus, the cabinet explained that the starting point is to keep society open, even in the event of new revivals." This is a very commendable objective, but, as we know, it is possible, on the basis of all kinds of factors, to decide on restrictive measures at once. Often it is still unclear which factors these are. We have often questioned the Minister and his predecessor on this matter. So here again the question: to what extent is this letter a roadmap for the Minister? In fact, previous road maps have been deviated from at least the slightest time. This creates unpredictability and uncertain policies, and the Dutch population will have less tendency to stick to them and understand them. How sure, therefore, is this long-term strategy and how is it guaranteed? At the moment, we would like to know to what extent the government has a realistic picture of how to deal with the virus. The Minister writes: "It is important that we focus on prevention and prepare ourselves for serious scenarios in the relative calm that the economy gives us." He pointed out the possibilities for vaccination. We have the following questions. Does the Minister think we can still boost the vaccination rate? And does the Minister think investing in the vaccination rate is a sensible allocation of time, resources and effort? Is it realistic to expect significant groups of people who have not yet been vaccinated to be vaccinated? Is it not wiser to start a booster campaign as soon as possible, instead of trying to reach people who obviously do not want to be vaccinated? In that sense, I found Mr Van der Voort's comment interesting. He said that people should be able to get a shot when they want to. I could agree with that. Isn't that wiser? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a comment about preparation and prevention. One of the factors on which the government sometimes aligns its policies is its ic capacity. What about the ic capacity? We read in the Minister's letter of 13 June: "The VWS Minister will discuss with the parties to make agreements on the financing of the maintenance of the ic scale and availability in 2023." But if we can believe the Minister, we may already be dealing with a corona wave this autumn. So what specific measures are there for the next autumn's ic's? I would like to confine myself to these questions. So much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u128	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Twice to measure, once to saw. That was something I had to think about when I read the letter of Parliament with the further elaboration of the long-term approach COVID-19. It is very good that the government is thoroughly and seriously considering the long-term Corona approach. It is good that the government wants to take a broader look than just epidemiological considerations and shape this by forming a Social Impact Team. It is very good that the government does not want to regulate everything top-down, but also wants to take initiatives seriously in society. But I was wondering, when is the sawing going to happen? Giving confidence is something other than letting go or giving up your own responsibility. Those are two fundamentally different things. The Minister will agree to that, too. The latter can be disguised as the first, but trust can only be given if you take responsibility first. We all feel that it would not be a good thing for the government to let go of certain responsibilities, not for reasons of substance, but for fear of being taken care of if things did not go well. That fear is a bad counselor. A core of the new policy is to keep society as open as possible. According to the long-term approach, this means above all that we as a society as a whole are responsible for this, a starting point that can perfectly justify the SGP in itself. A key question of the SGP is therefore: are the conditions for taking that responsibility by society itself in order? This is what my questions are about. What exactly does it mean that society must assume more responsibility? This will not imply any kind of unofficial extension of Article 22 of our Constitution, which states that it is the responsibility of the public authorities to take measures to promote public health. The previous regional approach has not worked in all respects. Why does the Minister think this plan has a chance of success? Who controls and supervises compliance with these measures? Please note that the SGP gives society and business a great deal of confidence, but let's just say that other spokesmen have also pointed out that it doesn't work out sufficiently well, what happens then? In many shops, the dispensers with hand alcohol remain empty and dust in a corner at the entrance; suppose that employers do not automatically allow their staff to work at home to the maximum if this prevents contamination: what then? And when will they switch? It continues to seek an optimal balance between giving trust and taking responsibility by the government itself. Is it not necessary for the public authorities to create clear frameworks for this with measurable indicators, to make concrete the number of infections that need to be addressed and clearly define how fundamental fundamental rights are guaranteed? If this is in order, it is not a question of shifting responsibility, but of giving confidence and taking responsibility seriously. As far as the SGP is concerned, tailor-made work and taking industry initiatives seriously is, of course, useful and valuable. Those entrepreneurs, in particular, have recently gained excellent experience of the feasibility and feasibility of various measures. It's good to take full advantage of that experience. The letter states that implementation and enforcement are taken into account in the sector plans. Can the Minister make that more concrete? How does the government see its own responsibility in relation to the sector plans? Is enforcement also in the sectors or is it a regional or municipal task? Does the Minister also have an idea of what capacity and resources are needed for this and whether they are available? Has the Minister already started to create the right framework conditions for the policy outlined? And what concrete steps have been taken? Mr. Chairman. The corona vaccines are not the high wall they hoped for. Although certainly effective in reducing the burden of disease and in preventing mortality, they have not proven to be impenetrable shield against infections. How does the Minister weigh this in relation to a measure such as the Corona Access Card or the Digital Corona Certificate, the DCC, which is still in use in the EU? Can the Minister explain in detail why the DCC instrument is still considered necessary, now that it is becoming increasingly clear that vaccination offers limited protection against infection? Isn't this some form of false security? Can the Minister explain how the government is committed to the proportionality of EU-wide measures? How does he intend to ensure the protection of personal data when Dutch people go on holiday abroad and are therefore asked for a DCC? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we are in a kind of summer wave ourselves. This shows first of all that we can and can try anything, but that this virus also goes its own way. Even with the most draconian measures couldn't even curb China covid. This may lead us first of all to humility and humility, because it is not so feasible. All our plans, protocols and measures turn out to be barely resistant to a naked-eyed invisible virus. In the Bible we can read that God can also use disease to teach us people, for example to show us that life down here is only a temporary and limited matter and that real safety and real protection can only be obtained from God Himself. This certainly does not exclude human responsibility and commitment, but puts it in a different perspective. I would like to see and acknowledge this from all the political players. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. The next speaker is Mr Nicolaï of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you're a little behind in the order you can refer to others. For part of what I wanted to say, I can join others. I've heard Green Left ask questions about long covid. That was our problem too, because that is a serious problem. You notice it's getting more serious when you follow the papers. We would also like to know what the cabinet is doing in this area. Furthermore, D66 raised the issue of prevention. I am not talking about the prevention we have just discussed, namely vaccination. This is, of course, also a kind of prevention, but there is much more far-reaching prevention. I believe it was an interview with Mr Van der Voort of D66. He said in his hospital the disease isn't covid, it's obesity. We have established a National Prevention Agreement in 2018. We are now four years away and we find that people with obesity, among other things, are much more susceptible to the serious diseases we are always talking about. The same applies to other diseases. Our party has always insisted on prevention: sugar tax, VAT reduction, sport and movement. What the hell is going on in that area? RIVM has recently found that there is insufficient progress. We don't need RIVM for that, but this is an essential point. It is a new point, because the previous questions are about other matters. Our group would very much like to know what kind of rush is actually being made there. Can the Minister indicate what concrete steps are being taken and how he envisages that we can reduce obesity as a social disease? What does the Cabinet do about it? That's the question I wanted to start with. Then there is another prevention question, namely in the atmosphere of ventilation. It is right that Mr Van Hattem put that forward. We hear a lot about that. We heard all about it at the beginning of the corona period. I do not feel that any progress has been made. What about the ventilation in schools? There's plenty of schools we know they can't do it. Is that a financial problem? Why doesn't the Empire come along? Can the Minister undertake to inform the First Chamber with a letter of what steps have been taken by the government to ensure that ventilation is organised in schools, universities and other buildings? Can the Minister tell us more about this? That is also a very important point when we talk about prevention. Then the point of self-direction. All the previous speakers have talked about this. For our group, self-direction is paramount, but you also have to think about a disaster scenario. The discussion between Mr Verkerk and Mr Otten focused on this. I think Mr Otten agrees with me that you need a toolbox for a disaster scenario. But you don't have to operate that toolbox until you have to. I heard GroenLinks say that we are not going to talk about the Wpg and I heard Mr Janssen say that all this is still coming. I think I agree with Mr Van Hattem: if a law has now been passed in consultation, let us, as the First Chamber, take a look at it. If anything comes our way, there's nothing we can do about it. So let's look at the Wpg, whose temporary first phase is now in consultation. I am beginning to see that we have said quite recently: all measures in the Twm, get rid of them! We're not gonna extend it anymore. Next, I look at the law that is now before me and I wonder if I read it correctly, because, as the law has now been consulted, I feel that all the measures are being put back in place in one go. Mr. Chairman. The discussion with this Chamber has always discussed the incorporation into the law of, say, a dormant toolbox, in which, depending on the occurrence of an epidemic and the importance of certain measures of competence, a tool may be activated. In fact, we have always talked about this in the discussion, including with the previous minister. Now, of course, the impact of the various competences is very different. I say straight away to Mr Van Hattem of the PVV: there are powers in this law, but the question before us is whether we agree that those powers should be activated. The question of whether these powers laid down in the law are the right ones is still open. But the impact of the different powers is different. For example, the power to use a safe distance standard or a mouth cap is of a very different nature than that of closing hotels, schools or cinemas. The assessment of whether it is justified to limit the fundamental right in question is therefore always different. This is also reflected in the fact that, in the aftermath of the Corona period, not all measures were abolished simultaneously, but at different times, depending on the interests that were taken into account at the time and the seriousness of the breach of fundamental rights if the measure were to continue to exist. Mr. Chairman. As there will be several moments to take back powers in order to reverse the violation of fundamental rights, the powers now included in the draft for consultation will also have to be determined by authority whether it may be activated, taking into account the seriousness of the threat to public health and the requirement that fundamental rights should not be disproportionately restricted. And, I say immediately, even if I have listened to how we feel about it here in this Chamber, there will also have to be a deactivation of powers when, in the opinion of the States-General, the power to infringe fundamental rights is lacking a necessary and proportionate basis. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I see it wrong, but the proposal that has now been put forward for consultation is incredibly rambling on these points. In fact, with regard to COOVID-19, all the powers that we had recently removed by rejecting the extension of the temporary law are being re-established in one go. I start with COOVID-19 and then I come up with possible new infectious diseases that may require the activation of measures. The proposal, President and fellow senators, provides for the introduction of a new group of infectious diseases in Article 1 of the Public Health Act, namely Group A1: COVID-19. Read the proposal. This group is then distinguished from the other infectious diseases which are now listed under Group A and which are subsequently identified in the proposed scheme as Group A2. If the regulation as it has now been given in consultation and which I feel we should look at as the First Chamber is becoming law, all the powers listed in paragraph 8 of Chapter V, and therefore for an unlimited period, will now apply in relation to the fight against COOVID-19. These powers are no longer dependent on an activation decision, since Article 58b provides that the powers conferred by or under this paragraph may be applied to infectious diseases belonging to the A1 group. COOVID-19 is already classified as an A1 disease in Article 1 of the Wpg, if the proposal becomes law. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the government has the idea that the request for parliamentary approval of an A1 designation referred to in Article 20 of the Wpg would still apply with regard to COOVID-19. But that is incomprehensible, because the Minister will not soon be able to designate COOVID-19 as A1 disease, which would then be subject to parliamentary approval, because that has already been done in the law itself. Article 20, to which the Minister and the Government refer in the explanatory memorandum, contains that parliamentary approval. Article 20 deals with infectious diseases, and I quote, "not belonging to the groups A1, A2, B1, B2 or C." But covid already belongs to the group A1, because that is so regulated in Article 1 of the law. The requirement for parliamentary approval of that designation therefore applies to infectious diseases other than COVID-19. Mr. Chairman. The explanatory statement talks about parliamentary involvement in the activation of provisions of Chapter 5, paragraph 8. It refers to control over the activation of the provisions of the Wpg resulting from the fourth paragraph of Article 20 of the Wpg. I have some questions for the Minister. Can the Minister explain to me why COVID-19 will still be designated under Article 20 Wpg as belonging to Group A1 if that is already provided for in Article 1 Wpg? Does the Minister agree that if COOVID-19 has already been designated as belonging to Group A1, and therefore cannot be applied to Article 20 Wpg, the parliamentary control provided for in that provision on the activation of the Wpg for the fight against COOVID-19 is missing? Is it true that if COVID-19 has already been classified as an A1 disease, all the powers will apply for an unlimited period of time if the proposed regulation becomes law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u132	There is an interruption by Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u133	I do not think I can influence Mr Nicolaï's speech anymore, but I would nevertheless like to say that I think it is particularly important that we are now having a debate, at least Mr Nicolaï's input is on this subject, on a legislative proposal which is still in the internet consultation process, on which an opinion from the Council of State is to be delivered, and which is still to be discussed in the House of Representatives. We will be discussed afterwards. If the proposal is already being discussed in detail on an article-by-article basis, then we are undermining our role. We're at the back of the process. Otherwise you'd have to join the House of Representatives, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u134	We are sitting at the back and at the front of the process, because we are having a debate here on covid in general, which includes, among other things, the draft that has been consulted. If we already see that mistakes are being made there, I think it is only sensible that we should see them now. Probably the VVD prefers to try to fix mistakes afterwards. Mr Otten has already given several examples of this but I prefer to do it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u135	"Error" is a subjective indication. I am more concerned with what our role is and at what point in time we need to deal with it. As I said in my first sentence, I do not expect Mr Nicolaï to make a different speech, but I wanted to have it noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u136	Here's to it. Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u137	To take away some misunderstandings. When Mr Van der Voort asked me to interrupt, 'how do you think that should be dealt with in the new Wpg?', I said that we are going to talk about this, as Mr Meijer just said. But I think it is extremely good that Mr Nicolaï has already put a few fingers in the sore spots, where the draft has apparently not yet taken sufficient account of the decisive influence. We have also had a lot of discussions here about Parliament's power to activate and deactivate measures. I have made this point to Mr van der Voort, assuming that the ministers, too, have of course taken a very good account of the discussions that have taken place here over the last two years, but I am also very curious to hear the Minister's response in response to Mr Nicolaï's questions, because I think that this shot is very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u138	We are also taking Mr Otten's interruption with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u139	I fully agree with that. As far as we are concerned, Mr Meijer is wrong. I also mentioned it in my contribution: there seems to be a legislative problem at the VWS Ministry, because that legislative change should have been there by 2020. It's been lying there for a long time. That's why that temporary law was renewed every time. If it had been up to the VVD, that law would have been extended for the 28th time in five years or so. Mr Nicolaï also sees that there is a problem in that legislative machine at VWS. I said, for example, bring in the Justice Department. I know Mr Nicolaï as an eminent administrative lawyer. I just think it's commendable that he's giving some sort of early warning here with his important advice. Let's not beat that down now, like "you're running ahead of the troops; we're going to do something if it's all too late." I would have liked to have said that to Mr Meijer. I therefore agree with what the previous speakers have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u140	I give the floor again to Mr Nicolaï to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u141	Mr. Chairman. I agree with that question. I am therefore surprised that Mr Meijer got up when I brought this up. D66 has also asked: how does the Minister see parliamentary control functioning? That's my question, too. If an arrangement is to be adopted by the Minister and if the House of Representatives, which according to this draft has parliamentary involvement, does not think that the activation of some of the powers set out in paragraph 8 is groundless, then how can the House of Representatives achieve that adjustment? We're talking about a system that's in this law. The Court shall decide only on the clearance law. Does this mean that there is still a need for changes to the system that is being approved? That's what I'm curious about anyway. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Does this also apply to the involvement of the First Chamber? Mr. Chairman. If I read the proposal correctly, I understand that, as a result of the designation of a disease as A1, those powers of action will apply indefinitely. I say immediately: COVID-19 has already been designated in the law, but it can also be other, new variants, other diseases or zoonoses, which I will come back to. Can I see that right? If a new infectious disease such as A1 disease has been identified and all powers have been activated and if it is approved by law, what control does the State General then have to deactivate the powers again? Can the Minister clarify this? Is it true that, as promised, in the current proposal for a 'admission and expulsion procedure', there is no longer any mention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and certainly not of COOVID-19? Mr. Chairman. When powers are activated, this does not automatically mean that measures are being taken. The result of the switch-on is only that a power is created and may be used. Either and, if so, how the power is used is a follow-up step. In this respect, too, binding parliamentary involvement is required. That was our starting point. The adoption of measures restricts fundamental rights and requires careful monitoring of necessity and proportionality. That is an excellent test which belongs to the tasks of the First Chamber; I say this from my heart, but I hope from the heart of all, including Mr Meijer. However, the proposal as it stands today builds on the system of the Twm, in which the position of the First Chamber had just been undermined. The right to block was only granted to the House of Representatives. Can the Minister explain to me why, in the proposal that has now been presented, that lack of control of this Chamber has not been eliminated? Does the Minister agree with our group that the necessary careful review of the necessity and proportionality of the violation of fundamental rights should be in the hands of the Supreme Court? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has far-reaching powers to take measures to combat an epidemic. Advisory bodies shall be involved in the adoption of such measures. The Director of the Centre for the Control of Infections of Diseases has a key position in this regard. He's organizing the OMT. In fact, our group's proposal to amend the Wpg merely reads the powers of action and sanctions. There is no provision for the establishment of measures, the position of advisers and the questioning and follow-up of opinions. In the meantime, the cabinet is also committed to the creation of a Social Impact Team, which will function in parallel with the OMT. Our group has asked the Minister a number of questions to clarify the responsibilities with regard to the taking of opinions, the openness of debate and the requirements relating to impartiality and the prevention of conflicts of interest. Does the Minister agree with me that the advice which precedes the establishment of a ministerial measure to combat the epidemic should be regulated by law? Although Article 58c of the proposal lays down procedural rules, they all relate to the position of the States-General. The opinions to be sought and those to be consulted are not regulated. The OMT and the MIT are not mentioned. The relationship between the Minister and the advisory bodies is unclear. It is not clear what is the case with public consultation, guarantees of independence and impartiality. Is the Minister prepared to deal with these issues and include them in the proposal? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister state the status of that Social Impact Team and who is responsible for the composition and functioning of that MIT? And most importantly, who's gonna come in? Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union said that there should be someone specializing in meaning and spirituality. Let me remind you that we also have the Thinker of the Fatherland, as I believe it is called. At the very beginning of the corona period Marli Huijer was. As a philosopher, she already asked the first questions about the social impact: look not only at health, but also at other things. How important is it that these people get into that MIT? How important is it perhaps when we talk about culture as oxygen for the mind, which Mr Van der Voort was talking about, that someone from the cultural sector also comes into it? It is people who look at things more broadly and in a larger context that I think Mr Verkerk should also be able to get a place there and not just people from the Central Planning Bureau or whatever. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the OMT, the minister has another OMT-Z as an advisor. That organ is concerned with zoonoses: pathogens that can pass from animal to human. Over the last few months, we've been plagued by bird flu. Experts warn that the virus can mutate into a virus that jumps people over and, even worse, at a given moment from human to human. In 2003, 89 people were infected by a highly pathogenic avian influenza virus. A vet died at the time. Prof. Fouchier warned against the dangers in the hearing of the House of Representatives in February this year. The Minister, who was present, acknowledged the dangers. I quote him: "I have already referred to Ron Fouchier's research. Avian influenza viruses, as with other viruses, may cause mutations. That earlier study has shown that multiple mutations are needed before human avian influenza virus becomes transmissible to humans. That is one of the specific reasons for monitoring the presence of mutations. Right now, today, with all the monitoring, there is definitely reason to be alert (...)." Mr. Chairman. Yes, being alert is imperative. SARS-COVID-19 was also spread by minks. Pigs flu is also a zoonoses that is evidence that humans can be infected. Shouldn't we be concerned when experts warn and the Minister swears that he should be alert? The proposal to amend the Wpg contains rules on human behaviour and the prevention of contamination. The Animal Law lays down rules relating to animal diseases. The Minister of LNV swings the scepter when it comes to the application of that law. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister tell me where it is legally regulated that he, this minister, can intervene if an animal disease that is factually or potentially transferable to people develops on farms? Can the Minister also tell me where it is legally regulated that he has perseverance in relation to the Minister of LNV at some point? Mr. Chairman. From the Minister's speech in the House of Representatives, I have noted that a national action plan for zoonoses will be presented this summer. My last question. Can the Minister promise that this plan will also address the question of which advisory bodies are involved, how they relate to the OMT and the RIVM and how far the perseverance of this minister extends if animal diseases occur with zoonotic potential? Mr. Chairman. I look forward with interest to answering the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u142	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. There is another interruption by Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u143	Still at the point of ventilation that Mr Nicolaï made earlier. He was right to refer to that. We have now received some information from the Minister. Among other things, in the answer to questions from the Lower House, some of them were addressed, but also in the documents of 13 June, about the long-term approach, there is some information. I heard Mr Nicolai ask for a letter to that effect, specifically on the situation in schools. In the information we have received, the situation in the schools is discussed in detail. Most of all, what money has been spent and what we can expect from the National Coordination Team Ventilation at Schools at the end of this year is mentioned. My question was also about other sectors, for example the catering industry. In any case, we must ensure that these sectors can also remain open in a responsible manner, so that we do not have to deal with lockdowns again in the future. The ventilation just needs to be put right. Mr Nicolaï asked for a letter on this matter. My question is therefore mainly about this area and not so much about the schools. We have already received a great deal of information about this. I wanted to put that as a supplement and a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u144	I think Mr Van Hattem is quite right. Actually, my point is this. If ventilation is a means of prevention, we want to know what is going on in the Netherlands. This does not, of course, apply only to schools. A lot has been written about that. That is why I mentioned that example. Mr Van Hattem is absolutely right. In fact, that applies to all buildings where people come together. We will find them again in this legislation. 'Cause you could close it too. However, it is better not to close them, but to ventilate them well. I totally agree with Mr van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u145	We can indeed connect to that. I would just like to say that I agree with the previous speakers. Mr Nicolaï's concerns about the adaptation of the Wpg are quite right as a PVV group. We welcome the fact that these concerns are being addressed here, so that we can have discussions, especially on the long-term approach. He's just part of that. It is also offered with the pieces, I notice, perhaps in abundance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u146	I'll take a look at the ministers. We've received the message that there's a recessed cabinet council at noon. I'll just pass that on to my colleagues. That would mean we're gonna suspend now and we're gonna do the rest of the first term after lunch. I would suggest that we adopt that proposal. I note that this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u147	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. before lunch.
