ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Act, Section 35756. The Secretary of State for IenW is still with us. It will be a joyous meeting, because we will have a real maiden speech from Mr Haverbort, the fourth speaker of today. So that's what we're all gonna sit down for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van der Plas of BBB's group. I am happy to give her the floor and she has asked for six minutes. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Farmers and citizens in the Netherlands, and of course the people in the gallery too, welcome to this beautiful debate. Mr. Chairman. If we can believe certain parties in this Chamber, the use of plant protection products to protect our food from diseases and plagues is basically hell on earth. It's like farmers and gardeners are just doing something, squirting around cheerfully and not attracting a single ball of their surroundings. They're pretending to spray their bottoms to death and then squeezing at night with a glass of wine reminiscing of their hellish work. What few people realize are the following points. One. Farmers don't want to spray bottoms to death. The soil is their existence. Farmers and gardeners have nothing to gain from a dead soil, because without soil life there are no crops and no grass. Without crops and grass, there's no food. Without food, there's no income. Without plant protection, we would never have known our current level of prosperity. Then there would have been hunger. Since the arrival of plant protection products, with the exception of the Second World War, North-West Europe has never had a famine caused by crop losses due to plant diseases or pests. Three. Life without hunger has given us the opportunity to develop, to become what we want to be, to be who we want to be and to work on a prosperous country. Four. Because 0.3% of the population can provide good, safe, sustainable, affordable and always available food daily, we, the other 99.7% of the Netherlands, can do something else. We do not have to go to the land to sow, grow or harvest. That is what our farmers, growers and growers are for. Let us be grateful for that, because without them we could not debate plant protection products here with a large salary, which can ensure that food supplies are maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr President, it may be good to point out to Mrs van der Plas what is today's subject. That's about plant protection products outside of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	Always nice to get a tip from a colleague. I know very well what the subject is. I have requested the debate myself. So perhaps you could just listen to what I have to say and to what I come to, before you get to the interrupting microphone in one minute to give me a reprimand. Mr President, I will continue, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yes, because the Minister for Agriculture is not here today, for example. There's a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's right. I didn't ask any questions either. I've only made an argument, as an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	I know what this is about, because I've been sitting here for a year. Having said that, with an increasing world population and growing unrest on continents, a food crisis is once again lurking. What happens if less expert people make choices about matters that they are not experts in and if they sit in the chair of assessment bodies that support scientific evidence or whether resources are safe or not? I am talking about the European Food Authority, EFSA, and the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products, the Ctgb. I am referring here to the amendment tabled, which goes far beyond the legislative amendment before us. This amendment allows, in addition to banning plant protection products in floodplains, virtually any surface water use in agriculture to be prohibited. This leads to an absolutely unworkable situation. I do not understand that GroenLinks, D66 and the PvdA are not learning from the crises around them. Look at Sri Lanka. There they also thought that agriculture should do it all organically, without plant protection and fertilizer. What's next? Heavy food shortages and a threat of famine. It is inconceivable that we in the Chamber should decide that funds subject to very high standards and selection procedures are banned in agriculture because Members of Parliament who do not have the expertise would like to do so. It's written by people that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	There is a question from the CDA colleague, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	I understand Mrs van der Plas' criticism of the amendment, but does Mrs van der Plas not agree that this subject, which was initially a hammer piece and would actually be adopted in this way, has been hammered out by Mrs van der Plas herself? As a result, we now have this type of amendment, which you are quite rightly critical of. Otherwise, it would have been a hammer piece. Then it was done. Thanks to the fact that you have hammered it out, there are now amendments which may go far too far. Doesn't that bother you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, that's how we work in a democracy. I am asking for a debate because I think we should talk about this again. Everyone is free to table amendments, even if there are ten that I do not agree with. I'm totally fine with that. That's how democracy works. It's just nice that we can talk about things that matter. If such an amendment is going to make it, we have to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think it is a rather poisonous speech by Mr Van der Plas, because she here pretends to be MPs, colleagues, who are simply doing their job, doing something. I'm far from it. In fact, D66 is a party that takes the scientific assessment of the facts very seriously, whether it concerns plant protection products or the nitrogen problem. That is something that Mrs van der Plas might be interested in, because also in nitrogen there are scientific facts. It would be very good if the FarmerCitizen Movement would follow science in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	I also like to follow the science of the Ctgb, indeed. That also indicates what is and is not allowed. Mr De Groot has never heard of this. But it's a comment and not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	One more thing: you are talking about 'the' amendment, but there are three amendments. You meant the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	The PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	The Bromet amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	The amendment on the use of extradikes and surface water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u19	Yes, the Bromet amendment, in part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u20	Oh, yes, Mrs Bromet was the first petitioner. I'm moving on. It's written by humans: poison, it can be done without. Anything can happen, but let's keep it real. There is organic cultivation in the Netherlands, but that was only 3.2% of the area in 2017. Only 5% of the market is organic. This is precisely the difference between the consumer and the citizen: the citizen does not want yellow fields and wants everything organic, the consumer wants food for little money and often skips the biological shelf. Mr. Chairman. Let us take an example of Sri Lanka and not make the same mistake here. I therefore call on my colleagues to have a crystal-clear picture of the consequences of the Bromet amendment before they vote on it. How can D66, as a coalition partner, sign a coalition agreement in which she supports the implementation of the plant protection programme and now propose such an amendment? I don't understand any of that. I am also curious about what the other coalition partners think about this. A generic ban also has unwanted side effects. The bill also prohibits certain biological and ecological means, such as Ultima for weeds in public space and Escar-Go for snails in the garden. Sometimes they're simply needed to fight plagues. We can't approve a generic bill with that kind of side effect here, can we? What does the Chamber want? No more resources at all? Do we know what that means here? I am also absolutely in favour of limiting the use of plant protection products by individuals as much as possible. In fact, it seems to me a good idea to ensure that there are points of sale for plant protection products or pesticides where certified personnel ask whether the buyer can deal with the product. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether such a system might be possible for plant protection products in private trade? How could the Secretary of State realize that? We don't just prescribe medication to people who need something to stay healthy. Then they go through the doctor to the pharmacy and then they get information; that brings awareness. Even if you buy a package of Rennies at the Kruidvat, you will still be asked if you need an explanation about the medicine. By the way, 140 tonnes of drug residues are found every year in surface water, compared to 17 tonnes of pesticides. So we're gonna ban those drugs, too? We also don't know what comes in our water from abroad. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Together with stakeholders, water managers and stakeholders, LTO Nederland wants to present an area-oriented approach when no plant protection products can be used in which floodplains and outer dike areas. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether she sees this as an intermediate solution that fits in with the practice? The Authority and the Ctgb are the bodies that assess whether a product is admissible and whether a product is effective and safe for humans, animals and the environment. There is also an approved motion by Van den Anker/Ziengs in which we have declared ourselves as Chamber that the scientific opinion of the Ctgb must be followed. How does the Secretary of State view this in the light of the legislative proposal and the Bromet amendment? Finally. A 'no, unless' is now proposed, with exceptions when certain resources may be used. My proposal based on input from the different sectors would be a "yes, if" policy. Can the Secretary of State state state whether it is prepared to examine whether the bill can be amended and extended in this way? I'm considering a motion on that point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u21	Very good. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Vestering of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the goal of medicine is still to make people better. I believe that the purpose of agricultural poison is to really spray and destroy weeds, insects or whatever. That is the initial objective, so there is a substantial difference. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the change in the law before us. There will soon be restrictions on the use of pesticides outside agriculture. That is high time, because the Court already in 2014 called for a ban on the sale of funds containing debt securities to private individuals. But in 2022 I still see Roundup on the shelves of the construction market. The motion-Ouwehand/Schouw could not be carried out at the time because there was no legal basis for it. With this change of law, there will be. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to make use of this legal possibility and implement the wishes of the Chamber. I'd like a response. The agreement between the Empire and the garden centers is now that the shopkeepers of garden centers should discourage people from buying Roundup. But why does the Secretary of State leave this poison in the shops at all? Isn't it a strange construction that the government leaves it to the shops themselves to discourage the sale of their products? Then I have one more question for the Secretary of State. European Member States should ensure that no agricultural poison is used in areas protected under the Water Framework Directive and in groundwater protection areas. We know that the Netherlands is not going to meet the objectives of the Water Framework Directive before 2027, which is the agreement. That appointment has been postponed by 12 years. In five years' time too, as it looks now, the quality of the water will still be poor, partly because of agricultural poison. We know that we still find too high concentrations of agricultural poison in our drinking water. Why does the government not prohibit the use of agricultural poison in these areas, which is required by the European directive, both for use outside and within agriculture? Mr. Chairman. My group thinks that the present legislative amendment is too limited. It concerns only 1 to 2% of total non-agricultural use of agricultural poison. All little bits help, but the great use is not addressed. By far the most poison is used within agriculture. This has the most harmful consequences. The Netherlands has the highest poison use per hectare of agricultural land in the EU. Recent research by UNICEF shows that one in 12 children in the Netherlands is exposed to too much pollution from agricultural poison. Last week, new research showed that more and more remnants of the most dangerous agricultural poisons are found on our fruit and vegetables. On as many as 61% of Dutch apples remains of the most harmful agricultural poisons were found. Apparently, these poisons have not been used less in recent years, but more. We also see it in the sales figures of the past year that have recently been published. The Netherlands has not bought less agricultural poison but there is a significant increase. Mr. Chairman. Among the most dangerous substances, we are talking about substances known to be highly toxic, very difficult to biodegrade, carcinogenic, harmful to reproduction or hormone disrupting. It can also be substances that accumulate in the food chain or that can damage people's DNA. So there are still substances containing these dangerous substances on the Dutch market. A large proportion of these very dangerous substances have been on a European list of substances eligible for substitution since 2015. Due to the high risks to human health and the environment, Member States are obliged to phase out funds with these substances gradually. But what does it turn out to be? In the seven years that this rule exists, the Netherlands has not yet replaced any substance based on these substances with a less harmful alternative. All these resources are still on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u23	There is a question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u24	First of all, I find it funny that we are not interrupting the subject of the debate now, because it seems that there is a pleasing story being told, but that aside. Agricultural poison in drinking water is a bit like it only happens in the Netherlands, but we live in a river delta and rivers come in from Germany and Belgium. In Limburg the drinking water supply has been stopped because there was a lot of agricultural poison in the Meuse, but that came from Belgium. I'd be happy to take steps in that; keep me in good shape. It's not like I'm saying everything has to be possible. But wouldn't it be better to look at it at European level and look into it? Because it is not that there is a dam in Germany, that the water stops there and that we have our own river water. We don't have mountains in the Netherlands, so that comes from somewhere else. That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u25	I am glad that Mrs van der Plas is at least prepared to look at the possibility of limiting agricultural poison, albeit at European level. But I have just heard a plea from the same lady that agricultural poison is so fantastic and that it is so incredibly necessary for Dutch agriculture. If you look at the poison use per hectare of agricultural land in the EU, the Netherlands has the highest percentage of poison use. I think you should always start with yourself before you point to someone else because it wouldn't do well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u26	I'm not pointing at anyone else. I am not saying that everything in the rivers comes from Germany and Belgium. Mrs Vestering did not hear me say that at all. However, it seems to me appropriate to examine with the countries around us, Germany, Belgium and perhaps France, and beyond, what we can do together to reduce residues of plant protection products or pesticides in water. That's actually my question. My question was also whether Mrs Vestering is prepared to look into that. Point two, briefly. I didn't say agricultural poison was fantastic. That's what Mrs. Vestering hears in her head. I said that we still need plant protection products for a good food supply. That's quite another thing than saying that agricultural poison is fantastic. I would never call it agricultural poison anyway, so that's already wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u27	It is true that, if we want to ensure good agricultural supplies and sufficient food, we have to stop this crazy, bizarre amount of agricultural poison. This morning, in an important session on the use of agricultural poison, we were told again that there is an increase of 7% in the sale of agricultural poison in the Netherlands. I find that really shocking. If you know that this is harmful to humans, animals and our environment, and it is only increasing, then I am very worried about it. As far as the specific question about the countries around us is concerned, let us indeed have a discussion with the other countries. Let us, for example, follow the example of Luxembourg, which has already banned arthropods. Let us take an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u28	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u29	Glyphosate is, of course, only one medicine. Glyphosate is not sprayed on fields to protect crops from pests. That's a whole different drug. However, next week we will have another debate on plant protection products. (NL) Mr President, you are driving me all the way from my point of view with my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u30	Very good. Then we'll just go to the next questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm gonna go back and maybe I'll come back, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yeah, if you find it again, that's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u33	Yeah, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u34	Yes, you're always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mrs van der Plas said that when another spokesperson talks extensively about agriculture, nothing is said because it seems acceptable. In any case, the kick-off was not acceptable to me as CDA spokesperson. However, I would like to try to stick to the subject we are discussing today, and that is the use of these resources outside agriculture. If I am well informed, a debate on plant protection products within agriculture is planned for next. I'd say kill yourself! If we can stick to this issue today, we may be able to conclude the debate within the time we have. Then we do not run into the fact that the Secretary of State has to refer nine out of ten questions or comments to a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes, because next week's debate will be attended by the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Staghouwer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u37	Sure, except it won't be possible to amend the law. That's why I'm standing here today. I certainly didn't mean to go over my time, but perhaps you shouldn't. Mr. Chairman. I would, however, like to make a legal provision that the use of at least the most harmful means is drastically restricted. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Beautiful promises and noble goals we have heard enough now. It is time for concrete reduction targets with hard deadlines, such as a 50% reduction in the use of the most harmful means by 2025 and a 95% reduction in 2030. These goals are perfectly in line with the Government's 2030 Future Vision Implementation Programme. It was agreed with the sector that agriculture and horticulture in the Netherlands in 2030 consists of sustainable production with resilient plants and cultivation systems, giving diseases and pests much less opportunities. As a result, the use of plant protection products can be avoided as far as possible. That's what the cabinet itself writes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u38	That is the amendment to item No. Eight, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u39	It's a nice song. So that's what the cabinet itself writes. In order to ensure that this objective does not become an empty promise, my amendment provides for piece No. 8 to ensure that the reduction targets for at least the most harmful toxins are included in the law. I think that's the least we can do today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u41	I would like to comment on Mrs Vestering's opening line. I have been surprised for a long time about the convinced danger of plant protection products being outlined, while much less attention is paid to the risks of drug use. If a plant protection product is used properly, it is a final part of a whole process. I meant to hear Mrs Vestering say, if I haven't heard correctly, I would like to correct that medicines are intended to bring about recovery and that plant protection products are intended to kill life. But that's what the drugs do, isn't it? Those are only very small life units. There's no difference, is there? Would you consider looking at the plant protection products from the perspective of the medicine cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u42	Perhaps I should not have referred to Mrs van der Plas' earlier contribution, because that would, of course, confuse everything. Mrs Van der Plas referred to the issue of medicines. That's what you do at a pharmacy, with a clear instruction. That's what I was getting at. When we look at water quality, we do see that drug residues have a very negative impact on the environment and water life. This also applies to manure and agricultural poisons to a greater extent. So it is certainly true that they also have negative effects, but my reference was for a moment about the specific issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you for this explanation, but it is not an answer to the question. It is right that Mrs van der Plas points out that the amount of drug residues in water exceeds the amount of plant protection products left over many times. However, I am concerned about the following. Is it true that Mrs Vestering thinks that medicines are not meant to kill germs and plant protection products are? Is that the image that lives with the Party for Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think there's noise in communication. I think I have to establish that first. We're talking about a comparison with the issue of drugs. It happens at a pharmacy. You will receive a package leaflet and an instruction on how to use the medicine. You can buy agricultural poison. You can put a plan somewhere in a drawer, with a thick layer of dust on it, about how to use it, but there is no supervision or any enforcement of how agricultural poison is actually used in the fields. Next, the registration of the quantity and how agricultural poison is used in the Netherlands is also not accessible and transparent. It's not transparent, it's not insightful. So there's a big difference in that. That's not the equation I made either. It is also true that water quality suffers most from agricultural poisons and fertilizers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u45	There are some differences of opinion on this, but I understand that Mrs Vestering supports Mrs Van der Plas' proposal to publish the argument and to take action in the shop. But I note that you are not going to answer my question. I heard you say, "I want to know if that's true, "healing medicine, making people better, and plant protection products or "agricultural poison', as you call it, are meant to kill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u46	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u47	But those drugs kill living cells, don't they? I would like a reflection on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u48	I think this is a bit of a crazy question. Maybe that's why I can't really answer it twice. There's never been a question crazy, I've been taught, so I'm gonna do my best to answer it anyway. Agricultural poison is primarily intended to kill weeds, fungi and insects. That is the first objective of agricultural poison. That's right. Medicine is, of course, intended for consumption, to make people and animals better. But that whole equation was about a completely different point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u49	I've heard you three times now, Mr. Bishop. You asked very long questions. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u50	If I have a fungal infection on my foot, I can't hope I ever get it, and I get an ointment for that, what does that ointment do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u51	I think this is a little out of order. I'd like to go back to agricultural poison.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u52	No, you must either answer or not. You shouldn't take advantage of this to tell another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'm not gonna sit here and talk about foot fungus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u54	Okay, fine. You...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u55	Agricultural poison makes people sick. It gives them Parkinson's. It gives people cancer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u56	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u57	That's what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u58	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u59	Of course, Mrs Vestering is quoting it herself. I can see why she's turning around a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u60	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u61	No, no, no, no, no, no. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u62	If you have a fungal infection as a human being and you get an ointment, that ointment kills that fungus. If a plant has a harmful fungus, then at that time the grower uses a means to remove, kill, to make the plant healthy. That's exactly what happens to drugs. It's exactly the same. I just wanted to make it clear that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u63	And yet there are many ways of dealing with this in agriculture too, through rotational crops, through crop strips; there are many ways of preventing such situations at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u64	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u65	That's prevention. It also requires the commitment of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr. Chairman. I was an employee of Agriculture and Nature in the GroenLinks group between 2010 and 2013. The best result that I brought in as an employee was a motion I typed.I can still see myself typing in the old building of Justice in which we wrote that there should be a ban on the use of arthropods on hardening. A member of parliament dragged that right in here. Why did we write that the ban on hardening had to be introduced? We were counting on a majority if we kept agriculture out of the debate. That is still a sentence that comes back in the legislative proposal, in the documents and also in the debate here. It's about pesticides outside of agriculture. That had nothing to do with the fact that GroenLinks does not want much less pesticides everywhere, because we do, but we want a political majority. There has really been a political majority here in the House of Representatives for years in favour of banning and reducing the use of pesticides. But it doesn't work that bad in practice. We did have a very interesting briefing this morning. For example, it showed that the use of arthropods, which is also very often the subject of this study, increased by 20% between 2019 and 2020. That's what happens when we want to get rid of it. We're going all the way in the wrong direction. The fun thing was that that bill made it, that then I became alderman, and on day one of my aldermanship said, "I don't want to be sprayed with poison anymore." I said: I know it will be forbidden, I am now alderman on behalf of GroenLinks and it would really be a shame if there were a poison cart around here. The employees of the municipality found that rather complicated. They said, yes, but we always do that here. I said: yes, but now GroenLinks is responsible for this, I am responsible for public space and I just want us to stop. There was an alternative: the brush truck. That really had a lot of feet in the earth, because poison is much easier. You spray that on the pavement and it's gone. With a brush truck you have to wipe first, and you have to brush, and you have to have one of those brush trucks, and there were places that were skipped, and then of course the council members were all in front to complain about it. I asked the council to be patient and try this out. After a year came the evaluation of that alternative method of weed control. In the meantime, the law had also entered into force. A VVD council member asked me: yes, can't we just start spraying again, because that's much more efficient? I really thought it was a glorious moment when I could tell him: no, it can't be, because it's legally forbidden. In addition, I knew that I had typed the motion with which we had managed this here in The Hague. After the ban was imposed, all the municipalities in the Netherlands switched to alternative ways of combating weeds, precisely because of that legal ban. That went pretty well, too. Some places in Dutch municipalities grow a bit more weeds than before, but weeds are always a plant and biodiversity decreases, so it's just the way you look at them. Mr. Chairman. You can imagine that it was a real blow to me that the poison industry successfully challenged this ban, and that is why this ban does not actually apply anymore. I am therefore very pleased that there is a repair proposal. I would like to say to the govern ment that we wholeheartedly support this proposal. I do have a question. Will the ban made possible by this change of law actually and truly apply? I think that's still a little bit in the middle in the pieces. I would also like it very much to all those aldermen who are starting out in the municipalities if we were to clarify, and if the government were to say: no, you must continue with that alternative way of weed control and return to poison is not the issue. I'd like to hear a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I have made an amendment; Mrs van der Plas has already mentioned it. That amendment is actually intended to give the cabinet a little more room to intervene when excesses occur. We have been told for the umpteenth time this morning that the requirements of the Water Framework Directive, which stipulates that the water must be clean by 2027, will probably not be met by the Netherlands. I would like to say once again that the Netherlands is taking a very, very big risk with this. GroenLinks warned about the problems with nitrogen from 2010. It was only three years ago that the problems became manifest in a lawsuit. I would like to say once again, it has been said before that we are risking such a second crisis, which is at least as big as the nitrogen crisis, with the failure to comply with the European agreements on clean water in the Netherlands in 2027. It's very easy to say that we're not gonna be able to do it. But we've had to work on it for so many years, but we haven't. And we can make that right now. I made the amendment to give the cabinet room to improve water quality in the Netherlands. I believe that this will save the Netherlands from very high fines that will follow from Europe if we do not ensure that the water is clean, and that the entire economy is further closed, similar to what is now going on with the nitrogen crisis. Mr. Chairman. The room has been warned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u68	Oh, here's the deal. There's a shudder going through the hall. I would just like to say that your amendment No. Seven has been given. Now is the happy moment of Mr Haverbort's maiden speech. He has indicated that, despite its use, he is willing to allow for interruptions to take place. I do not know what inspired him to make this announcement, but as President I would appreciate it if we would just listen to his speech continuously from the beginning to the end. I give the floor to our maiden speaker, to our party pig today, Mr Haverkort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not looking forward to questions about foot fungus. Let me start with that. Mr. Chairman. It was in the spring that my grandfather died that I was born. It was 1972. My father had moved several years before with his parents, four brothers and seven sisters from their farm in Slagharen to the new country in Flevoland. There, in Swifterbant, he worked on land. Potatoes, sugar beet, wheat, onions, beans, arable crops. Mr. Chairman. When I was a kid, I used to play at the farm. I built cabins with my brothers, made arrows and bows from the branches of the thrushberry and footballed and cycled. As a result I learned to continue, because for me cycling was always accompanied by headwinds. High school was 25 kilometers back and 25 kilometers back. When I could and could, I helped my father. Along with a hoe through the beet, weed weeds, the transistor radio on the belt, Radio 1.. and dusty clay around the feet, and chat about everything. Later on I understood from my grandmother, she finally became almost 100. How proud she was of my father that thanks to hard work and perseverance that farm provided the income of our family, but also took care of the income, so that my uncles and aunts from my grandparents' family could almost all complete a university study. Mr. Chairman. My mother is from Biervliet, Zeeland-Flanders. My grandfather and grandmother also left their farm in Zeeland in the late sixties, to start their new life as pioneers in Biddinghuizen. For my mother, when a 18-year-old girl, that was a very big step. She became a teacher. At that time, you were supposed to leave your job when you got pregnant. We have come a long way when it comes to women's rights, and unfortunately we are far from there. Look at what happens to abortion in the United States, but look at what happens here with MeToo. Mr. Chairman. My mother was always there. She continued to work, became a councilman and alderman and thus built her municipality of Dronten. Maybe that's where my political interest was aroused. I know they're watching. My grandmother too, she's still alive; by now she's 103 years old and I think she's listening. Mr. Chairman. After my studies I worked as a supervisor at VolkerWessels on our great rail infrastructure. That's where I learned it gets better if you dare to renew. As an entrepreneur, I have been able to achieve a lot by innovating. Innovations are never dependent on technology or on a sounding business case. Innovations only succeed if people accept change, and that intrigues me. How can you tempt people into innovation, change, improvement? I met my wife in Deventer. We bought a house that could still be used as a younger house and bought a larger house in Eefde in the Achterhoek three years later. That's where our daughter was born on March 20, 2005 at 4:30 in the morning. A few moments after birth the midwife indicated that things weren't going well and I had to call 911. Within a few minutes two ambulances stood with us on the sidewalk and took four tough brothers, dressed in blue-yellow striping, with our daughter and lay a little later on all kinds of snakes and monitors at the hospital in Zutphen. In the meantime she is in 5VWO and it is a beautifully dazzling teenager of 17. The essence, why I'm telling you this, is that you'll never hear me complain about our healthcare system in this country. My daughter owes her life to it and I love to pay the insurance premium so that we can continue to provide care to others. Mr. Chairman. Our lives are good, and as I get older, I realize more and more that that's because I live in the Netherlands. Our education system, our infrastructure, our care and our culture ensure that residents can live, work and undertake freely. I also realize that this is not self-evident for everyone. I realize that it can and should be better for all those people in the Netherlands who need help and want to make some of it, just like my parents, like my grandparents. Getting better, Mr President, also applies to our own environment. Of course, there's a lot of attention to climate, CO and nitrogen. But many people in this country are also worried about the dirt nearer home. Clean soil, fresh air and clear water are no longer obvious everywhere. We really are a border crossed if inhabitants of Zeeland can no longer eat fish from their Scheldt or if parents in Wijk aan Zee have to clean the climbing rack before they can let their children play on it. That, Mr. Chairman, drives me as a member of your Chamber. Get better. My story is about renewal, hard work, entrepreneurship, giving something up for something, literally giving something up for something, and then sharing it with each other, so that we get better together. Bus drivers, road mechanics who service asphalt at night and finishes or repair guardrails, nurses, damsels like my mother, entrepreneurs and their employees, farmers like my father and aid workers in the fire department, the police or the army: there is the power of our society. That is the vast middle group that maintains the values of the Netherlands and for which we can, no, improve the framework conditions. Better, by pioneering like my grandparents, getting better for them, for future generations, for my daughter and my son, for our children. Better, Mr President, but not by catching each other flies here, by yapping or by picking on each other, not by feeding suspicion or lying. Trust isn't something you get or deserve. Trust is what you give and what you hope will be shared. Sharing makes you rich, sharing makes you better. Mr. Chairman. I live in the Achterhoek, the most beautiful region in this country, and that is for three reasons. First of all, people look at each other. Noabership is our export product. Nowhere are there more carers than there. Second, innovative entrepreneurs, often in the manufacturing industry, create a very strong regional economy with many jobs. And third, the land is managed by farmers, making our Achterhoek's coulisse landscape one of the most beautiful in the world. Mr. Chairman. I grew up on a farm. I now live in a fantastic farming environment and enjoy the smell of freshly mowed grass and the sound of crackling tractors. That landscape has an important relationship for me with the proposal before us, because after the Second World War, agriculture in Europe has made sure that hunger has disappeared. This has also been made possible by the use of plant protection products, plant protection products that my father used, for example, in the cultivation of potatoes to prevent diseases such as phytophora. Unfortunately, crop protection products can also have an impact on biodiversity, on clean water or on clean land. In the past, we have in some cases even used plant protection products that we should not have used afterwards. Therefore, the VVD welcomes the scientific assessment of resources before they can be accepted and used. It is good that the European Food Safety Authority looks at the active substances in substances and that in the Netherlands, the Ctgb, the Board for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products, is monitoring the balance between the use of substances and the need to combat pests. It is precisely that balance that ensures sensible use, so that plagues and exotics are combated and our water, our air and our soil are taxed as little as possible. It is nice to note that with this bill we are putting into balance the Van den Anker/Ziengs motion from February last year. It'll make it better. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the scientifically sound use of plant protection products is given a legal basis outside agriculture, and a legal omission is repaired. That could have been dismissed by the VVD Group as a hammerpiece. However, I am also grateful to the group of the BoerCitizen Movement for the dehammering, because that at least gives me the opportunity to share my maiden speech with you today. Allow me, Mr President, to put one question to the Secretary of State. The VVD is sometimes told that the authorisation process for new plant protection products takes a long time. Does she want to talk to the Ctgb to speed up that process as much as possible? That's what makes it better. The VVD will not table an amendment and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u70	This was a maiden speech to run through a ring, a wonderful personal story. You've silenced the room. We know your whole family by now, Biervliet, Swifterbant. And I understand that your whole family is watching, so that's been good for our ratings as well. If you come here, it is my honor and pleasure to be the first to congratulate you, and then others are ready. And you'll get a bunch of flowers, too, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u71	Let's move on. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Let me begin by thanking my colleague, Mr Haverbort, for his wonderful maiden speech, and by congratulating and congratulating him. I felt, as a son, too, of a farmer, of course, a lot of connection with colleague Haverbort. Beautiful and recognizable, those crackling tractors, and that constant fight against that fungal disease in your contribution, phytophtora. And when it comes to his journey into high school against the wind, he defeated me, because I only needed 23 kilometres. Mr President, I shall now turn to the content of my contribution, although this was of course much more enjoyable. We all have our responsibilities when it comes to protecting biodiversity and a clean environment. And that responsibility begins in our own garden, the piece of land on which we have been given the care to manage it in a good and sustainable way, for our living environment, for ourselves and for our children. UNICEF stated last week in a report that the Netherlands belongs to the worst scoring countries when it comes to raising children in a healthy environment. This is mainly due to high levels of pesticides in our living environment, in addition to noise pollution from roads and airports. I therefore believe that phasing out, discouraging and ultimately banning pesticides for individuals and outside agriculture as quickly as possible is a logical step which should be taken in any case. This amendment lays down a legal basis for possible future bans on the use of plant protection products by private individuals. In addition, this bill introduces a ban on the professional use of plant protection products outside agriculture. This following a court ruling by the court in The Hague. Let's talk about the last one. The ban was already in place between 2017 and 2020, but was overturned by the court in this beautiful city, simply because there was no legal basis for the ban. It's being repaired now. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this. We do have a single concern and therefore a question about this. Exteriors and outer dike areas are taken into account in this legislative amendment. That makes sense, given their primary function as water storage. Exteriors are unique to the Netherlands, but rivers and their beds are everywhere in Europe. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she wants to work towards a level playing field in Europe, should a ban be introduced. Is there a risk that municipalities will move on to maintenance-free hardening instead of green in the context of cost savings, as sustainable green management will take more time and therefore more money? I can't tell you as well as Mr Bromet, but if the risk is there, how does the Secretary of State intend to deal with it? Another twitter account, by the way, people, follow that account but then about maintenance poverty in municipalities rather than in tiled gardens with too many concrete soils, where the only green is a piece of artificial grass: we shouldn't want that. Mr. Chairman. I see that some municipalities, including the municipality of Breda, and individuals, still work with adhesive strips against the oak processionrups last year. But this kind of resource is counterproductive. The oak procession caterpillars leave more fire hairs behind. That's deadly for a lot of species that live around the oaks. Breda seems to have come to his senses, but does that apply to all the municipalities? To what extent does the Secretary of State share my fear that there will only be more recourse to this kind of means? Does the Secretary of State want to talk to municipalities about this, or does she want to send the Butterfly Foundation after them? The Secretary of State writes that the sale of surfactants has decreased, but that the sale of substances with other active substances has increased. I find it very worrying that the sale of products that are not authorised for weed control, such as chlorine and vinegar, has also increased significantly. These products are not exactly good for the soil. In the same month of the State Secretary's evaluation, CLO, the Compensate for the Environment, published figures on the origin of pesticides in surface water. Nearly 100% of the total amount of residue was from wastewater treatment plants and sewers, i.e. private individuals. How is this consistent with your evaluation that sales have fallen? Or do many Dutch people still have huge supplies of Roundup in their shed? Have any evaluations been carried out on the purchase and use of pesticides by individuals after October 2020? Despite the increase in the use of resources other than satsumas, the State Secretary does not yet propose to make use of the legal possibility of a ban. Why not? Is it prepared to reconsider this in view of the UNICEF report and the problems of water quality in the Netherlands? One more point: many people think that the use of vinegar and chlorine against weeds is a natural, and therefore ecologically responsible way of weed control, which it is not. They don't realize what the consequences for the soil are when they pour them with liters of vinegar. It's not allowed, but it's happening anyway. What more can we do about it than not allow the sec? The same applies to biological products such as those against the buxus moth. To what extent do people see that these means kill all caterpillars and are thus disastrous for butterflies? It is better to choose another plant combination in the garden and strive for an ecosystem in balance, with birds eating caterpillars again, etc. But then the first hit on the internet shouldn't be at buxusmot: shoot the place to death. So my question to the Secretary of State is: does she want, in line with her earlier commitment to reducing arthropods, also to campaign actively against other pesticides in the home, garden and kitchen, and in doing so seek cooperation with our unsophisticated garden centres? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Communication by shoppers and information by Environment Centraal have helped to reduce the use of arthropods by private individuals. Nearly 100% of the pollution of the surface water is from them and from water treatment. That is perhaps a good thing to be aware of in this debate, in which too many trips to farmers have been made, while the present law is not about that. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u74	The chairman was already glad that I only had one A4's on me, until I pointed out to him that it was printed on both sides. I would, of course, like to congratulate Mr Haverbort on his maiden speech. Everyone in this house has held it once and those kind of moments are the best in the career here. I also congratulate you on the unpainted bunch of flowers that you have received as a gift. I recognized very strongly the feeling that your grandmother is still watching. Fortunately, I am still allowed to have a grandmother who has high-age debates. That's fantastic. That is the most uncritical person following debates. You never get ugly e-mails from or otherwise. It's actually always good, no matter what you say. Thank you for kicking off your work in the Chamber in this way. I wish you every success in that. Mr. Chairman. There are social and political concerns about the taxation of humans, animals and the environment through the use of certain plant protection products and biocidal products. Of course, we would prefer not to need plant protection products and biocidal products at all. However, the use of pesticides is necessary for the control of weeds, diseases and pests, including outside agriculture. A good example of this is the fight against the oak procession caterpillar. The sustainability of plant protection and biocidal products, both in agriculture and elsewhere, is in the interests of human health and our environment. The CDA therefore welcomes the government's commitment to the sustainability of plant protection and biocidal products. At the same time, we have questions about the need for this particular legislative amendment. Mr. Chairman. A pesticide should only be placed on the market in the Netherlands if it is not harmful. That was the argument that two organisations of pesticide manufacturers successfully fought the ban on pesticides in the courts in November 2020. The general ban on pesticides for individuals, which had been in force since 2016, had no legal basis, the court ruled in The Hague. "Although the government may prohibit the use of certain means in certain places, it does not have the power to issue an overall ban," the ruling was stated. That is why we are here today. This amendment creates a legal basis for banning certain plant protection products in their entirety. That brings me directly to my first point. The explanatory memorandum states: "Adjusting Article 80a will create this basis in order to be able to impose a ban or any other measure at a later date. It is even more uncertain whether such a ban or such measure, with exceptions if necessary, will actually be introduced." Then the question is: what is the intention, Secretary of State? Is there going to be a ban, yes or no? And, if so, what does it provide for a ban? What's coming? Then what does this depend on? And if that is not the case, why do we need this legislative amendment explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u75	It is a good question from Mr Van der Molen. Actually, it's exactly the same question I asked, but he's asking him with a little more support. My question is: what does the CDA itself think should happen? Does the CDA think that spraying the poison should return in municipalities, or is the CDA satisfied with the carts that are now driving around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u76	During debates, you learn a lot. I have also listened to Mrs Bromet's contribution, which has been the Alderman of Public Space Management. I've also been Alderman of Public Space. I worked with the policy already adopted at that time not to fight weeds in public space with poison anymore. We didn't do that with brushes either, because those metal brushes leave heavy metals in nature. We didn't think that was a good thing. In my city, Leeuwarden, the weeds are fought with hot water. Let me put it this way: the success of this was variable. At least, I have had to explain to people at a number of times why we should settle for that. It is certainly not my intention to ensure that the whole of the Netherlands returns to poison, especially in a municipality. That's not the point. It has already been asked by former colleague Van den Anker in this Chamber, but my question is: what do we need this for? You see that resources will only be available if they have been tested. It is therefore more a question of its legal need in relation to this than of its need to re-use poison in public space.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u77	I find that reassuring. I am also curious about the response of the govern ment, because I think it is also decided that this bill is right to allow these municipalities to use alternative methods and not to let them take back on the poisoner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u78	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u79	As has been said, a pesticide should only be marketed in the Netherlands if it is not harmful. Currently, the use of plant protection products is regulated in three ways. First of all, following scientific advice, the European Commission decides whether an active substance may be used as an ingredient in a plant protection product. In addition, we have in the Netherlands the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products. This College decides whether a plant protection product containing an approved active substance is authorised on the Dutch market and may be used. A product is admissible if its use does not lead to harmful effects on human or animal health and does not lead to unacceptable effects on the environment. This will be assessed on the basis of a scientific, European harmonised method. Thirdly, public authorities may restrict the authorised use of plant protection products. What I still do not have clear is why a legal basis is now being created to ban certain pesticides completely, while the European Commission and the Ctgb label them safe. Can the Secretary of State explain that again? Can you forbid anything that hasn't been proven to be toxic? Previously, my former colleague Van den Anker, together with the VVD, tabled a motion to follow the Ctgb's judgement when authorising and using plant protection products outside agriculture. Mrs Van der Plas has already asked for this. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she still intends to carry out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u80	Was this your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u81	No, Mr. Chairman, but I saw that an interruption is imminent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u82	You shouldn't be paying attention to that, but okay. I'll keep an eye on that, you know. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u83	A means is permitted or not allowed. This morning we heard in the master class we had: you can never prove that a medicine is harmless; you can only prove that a medicine is harmful. So there is always uncertainty. You want a lot of resources that are now allowed, especially not in your drinking water, in your surface water, especially not under the Water Framework Directive, which we will have to comply with in a few years' time. So I understand Mr Van der Molen's question to the Secretary of State, but my question to him is: doesn't he think it is important that water quality be put in order and that the presence of those substances, which are permitted and which now pollute the water, should be minimised?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u84	I fully agree with you on the desire not to burden the water with the effects of these substances. On the other hand, I see that the use of these substances is necessary in a number of places. I referred to the fight against the oak procession caterpillar. That is a very specific problem. But certainly when it comes to agriculture or certain areas, that can still be a choice. The CDA considers it important that, when the Minister imposes a ban, he or she bases it on scientific considerations. Because when we impose a ban, it must, of course, remain in place if it is to be challenged again by the courts. Then the question is: if they are allowed, how easy can you, as a government, still impose a ban? But of course we share that we try to keep the water in the Netherlands as clean as possible, not only for use in agriculture, but also for our health: if we open the tap, we want to make sure that we do not deteriorate in health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u85	Then I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u86	I share that with Mrs Bromet again. Finally, Mr President. Whether certain plant protection products are harmful and, if so, how harmful, is not always known. In an interview in the daily Trouw of 1 December 2020 on this subject, the Wageningen professor of soil degradation and land management Violette Geissen indicates that the standards for the assessment of plant protection products are 30 years old. In addition, little is known about the effects of cocktails of chemicals. Does the Secretary of State endorse these observations? If this is the case, should we not focus more on improving pesticide evaluation than on creating a basis for a generic ban? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u87	Fine. Thank you. Then Mr Tjeerd de Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, too, warmly congratulated Mr Haverbort for his wonderful maiden speech. They're artwork. It was a nice insight into the life of the Haverkort family. Thank you for that. Good luck from this beautiful place. I shall begin with Mr Bromet's contribution. We are going back to 2011, to the Grashoff motion, which, as it turns out, was written by colleague Bromet. The Ouwehand/Schouw motion also plays a role in this debate. Mr Schouw is one of my predecessors at D66. You should say: you should also ban sales. The request to the government every time, for more than ten years now, is clear: prevent the use of harmful plant protection products as much as possible and protect our health and water quality. This law is therefore a good step forward. We hope that the Secretary of State will take this opportunity, this hook, to actually implement that ban and thus reduce the use of plant protection products. Because it's more urgent than ever. It has already been recalled by other colleagues: we are at the foot of a nitrogen-like crisis when it comes to the Water Framework Directive, we already know that. On the basis of a D66 motion, in a previous cabinet period, the Ministry of IenW has already examined the risks of failing to meet the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. These are serious, because the Water Framework Directive, like the Birds and Habitats Directives, also contains a reduction ban. This means that you may not be able to issue permits locally again if you cannot prove that water quality does not deteriorate. This means that we as a Chamber must act now and there too we must reduce the unnecessary use of plant protection products. This law gives the State Secretary the opportunity to impose restrictions on individuals and to impose a ban on professional use outside agriculture, floodplains and outer dike areas. Mr. Chairman. In the light of this threat under the Water Framework Directive, it would also be appropriate for the Secretary of State to have a broader competence, not to do so immediately, but to be able to intervene, even outside floodplains, because there too there may be a risk of flushing or drifting. That is not, of course, a measure that the Secretary of State must simply take, but that is just the legal hook. That is also the thrust of the amendment that we tabled with GroenLinks and the PvdA and to see that the ban on consumption directly had a positive impact on water quality. A few more questions about this bill before us. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that no weed-prejudice products containing such a substance are sold to private individuals, as the Ouwehand/Schouw motion argued at the time? When can we expect 100% reduction? What additional measures will the Secretary of State take and what is the timetable for this? The Secretary of State indicated that biological plant protection is now within the scope too The D66 Group believes that this is a good idea, but we also want to prevent biological pesticides from having to jump through the same hoop when it comes to admission. How will the Secretary of State ensure that biological plant protection products are always given priority if exceptions to the scheme are to be applied for? How is it going to help developers of this type of green resource to navigate the existing procedures? Mr. Chairman. Locking up. In the coalition agreement, we also agreed that we would accelerate the shift to integrated plant protection, which Mr Staghouwer is talking about, but also by aligning the standards for use with the Water Framework Directive. That's your wallet again. How does the Secretary of State implement that provision in the coalition agreement? In other words, how is it going to align the objectives of the Water Framework Directive with the use of resources? Because that's the only way we're gonna protect our water quality and stick to the law. It's the least we can do here in this house. And so, in line with Mr Haverkort's words, we are going to make things better in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u89	A beautiful ending. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman. A few hungry colleagues have already come forward with the question of whether we are going to have lunch today. The answer is that we will do so after the Chamber's term. This is also an incentive for all of you to keep it short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u90	You must be hungry after all those stories about foot fungus, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Haverbort on his maiden speech. It's nice to hear how he grew up in Swifterbant. I was once allowed to do archaeological research in Swifterbant for a while. The special thing about Swifterbant is that the oldest field in the Netherlands was found there: 6,000 years old and unique in Europe. This dynamic area was first inhabited by people who hunted and collected and slowly switched to arable farming and livestock farming. They knew how to combine this in a special way and to use that dynamic landscape. I must say that I agree with Mrs van der Plas: farmers have since innovated a great deal. At the same time, the question is whether we should not go against borders and whether we should not innovate, avoiding famine, and whether we should not do so differently than we are doing at the moment. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing this amendment today and that next week we will have the committee debate on plant protection products with the Minister of LNV. As far as we are concerned, we are also continuing this pace of consultation and debate, because this is an important issue and there is still a world to be won. The Netherlands is still a major consumer of this type of plant protection products. Mr. Chairman. CLM Research and Advice has, on behalf of the Ministry of IenW, examined whether there are substantive reasons for the need to allow the use of specific groups of plant protection products outside agriculture. In our view, an important recommendation is to place the emphasis on prevention and non-chemical methods, such as the use of natural enemies, and the fact that each defined group of substances poses a potential risk to the environment. Does the Secretary of State endorse this recommendation? Can you reflect on that? Is your aim to phase out the use of plant protection products outside agriculture? When do you want to achieve this goal? With this amendment, a potential ban on the use of pesticides outside agriculture is one step closer. Can the Secretary of State explain whether it is possible to implement a ban on the use of pesticides in agriculture? So it's not about what the Secretary of State thinks about it or whether it's possible. We found that very unclear in the written round. The SP believes that this amendment is a step in the right direction, but less than 1% of the total use of pesticides is injected outside agriculture. The Secretary of State has already indicated that. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, if we want better protection of our public health, our nature, our waters and our biodiversity, there is real profit to be made? Mr. Chairman. For the SP, there are two important points in this debate. How is it that this bill does not include a national ban on or minimise use in Natura 2000 sites? Several colleagues have already referred to this. We are considering a motion on this point, but I would, of course, prefer that the Secretary of State should be able to take away our concerns on this point. Article 12 of the Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides explicitly calls for this. Pesticides are now regularly found far into protected natural areas. For example, what does the Secretary of State think about setting up a 1 km spray-free zone around our protected Natura 2000 sites? Is it prepared to have the effects investigated? Do we not, in her view, have a European obligation not to allow the use to penetrate into our natural areas? Then use near vulnerable groups. The same Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides requires very clearly and very clearly a ban or minimumisation in areas with vulnerable groups, such as children, pregnant people and residents exposed to high levels of pesticides. Our question here is actually the same as with the use of pesticides in Natura 2000 sites. Why is this law not designed to ban or minimise the use of pesticides around vulnerable groups at national level? For example, what does the Secretary of State think about setting up a spray-free zone 1 kilometre from schools, playgrounds, homes and public spaces? I'd like a response. What is the status of the previously envisaged health risk study for residents and users? Mr. Chairman. I can't tell you there's an interruption, so I'm just taking a natural break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u91	You're gonna take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u92	I'm curious. I hear Mrs Beckerman say that spray-free zones are one kilometre away from homes. But that would mean that people would no longer be allowed to use weed warriors in their own garden? I wonder how Mrs Beckerman sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u93	I see it as minimalization or a ban. I think that is a step in the right direction. I found certain pieces of the pleading very striking. It mentions the final evaluation of the Green Deal on responsible private use of plant protection products. You probably read that statement, too. I found the following striking. Several colleagues referred to this, I think. The sale of debt securities has fallen sharply. It says: "However, the sale of substances with other active substances had increased, as well as the sale of products that should not be used for weed control." Mr Grinwis referred to this as well. People think something's safe, but meanwhile they're polluting their own garden horribly. Mr Grinwis already cited the example of the buxus moth, but there are also people who use chlorine or vinegar. As far as we are concerned, we also need to reduce that. I thought Mrs. Van der Plas felt the same way, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u94	Yeah, but I think that's a tough one. If you say'spray-free zones 1 kilometer away from homes', it would mean in my mind that all the means now controlled and permitted by the Welkoop and available from other garden centres should be prohibited. I'm just trying to figure out what that means. Would a spray-free zone mean that a citizen should not buy a legally authorised and controlled product from the Welkoop to spray something in his garden, such as weeds? That burger can also have a vegetable garden in which a fungus rules. He'd like to harvest his lettuce. That's very good, because we all want local cultivation. A spray-free zone could mean that we can't do that anymore. Mrs Beckerman quite rightly points out that people are already going to buy other resources. How many times do I hear people say cleaning vinegar is really good stuff? That's totally out of the question! That's totally forbidden, but it's available at the supermarket. Chlorine, for example, is also freely available at the supermarket. I might drive a little, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u95	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u96	...are we going to ban supermarkets from selling those funds? Then how are we gonna clean our bathroom? That's a little out of line for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u97	I think it is a very valid point. I welcome the fact that Mrs van der Plas has mentioned this in this debate. Of course we look a lot at what happens on the farmland, but we also have to look at what happens in the backyard. People sometimes think that something is safe, but it turns out that it isn't. A ban on pesticides can also have the negative effect that people are going to use chlorine or cleaning vinegar. I don't think there's much difference between us at this point. I also think it doesn't make much sense to just do that. However, we do think it is important to take a combination of measures, because people use toxic substances in their own garden. Farmers would never use them, but households just throw them in their gardens. Mrs van der Plas rightly points out this. So I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u98	You agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u99	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u100	Then we're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u101	That's amazing, too. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u102	The chairman would like us to get out, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u103	You've found another point, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u104	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I am very happy to listen to Mrs Beckerman's contribution. But it is still unclear to me whether Mrs Beckerman wants to ban the funds that are still available in the Welkoop. Sorry, that's advertising. I should also mention other garden centers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u105	I'll start the pingles. Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u106	Yes, exactly! Should they be banned? These funds have just been approved by the Ctgb. Does the SP, Mrs. Beckerman, want to go to a ban on that? That's not entirely clear to me. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u107	I think we're both in some kind of struggle here, at least, I think. On the one hand, you see that if you forbid the one thing, people might use what they think is safe, but it's not. The examples have just been quoted. Think of chlorine and vinegar. Is the solution then to release everything? No, neither is that. We'll all agree on that, too. Is it then justified to make it quite absurd and to say that we are also going to ban substances that are perfectly safe? No, it's not. But we now have a problem, I think Mrs van der Plas has also noted that too much is being used, that wrong means are being used and that not everything that can be sold is safe, safe and used in the right combinations. I believe that you yourself said in your speech: wait a minute, the sale at the Welkoop and the other chains are not doing so well at all. So you are also thinking very much about a different way of selling, just about households. When we look at the impact on vulnerable groups, I also mentioned the Natura 2000 sites, and you mentioned the surface water that is polluted...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mrs. Van der Plas mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u109	Oh, excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u110	You're talking back and forth, but you really need to get back to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u111	I think we are very much in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u113	We are largely in agreement on the goal, I think. We need to talk about the cure. I see a lot in a combination, so we are much stricter with what we sell and at the same time ensure that people are well informed about what is and is not safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u114	Clear. I see a maiden interruption coming from Mr Haverbort. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u115	I have two questions for Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u116	About Swifterbant, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u117	No. I recognize, of course, your speech about the Swift-erbant culture of 6,000 years ago, the oldest farmers in the Netherlands. But that is not what this debate is about. This is about outside agriculture. I have two questions. Firstly, I read in the report in response to the written consultation that was once intended to achieve a 50% reduction in the use of private funds in the Green Deal and that RIVM has calculated that much more has been reduced, i.e. 70%. So I am a little confused about the discussion that we would not have achieved that ambition. Perhaps Mrs Beckerman can respond to that. Secondly, it suggests that there should also be an additional ban in many other areas. My question to her is therefore the following. I think we've put it very well together in the bill. My group is sure of that. I also hear Mrs Beckerman talking about a possible motion. Has the bill resolved the search for an answer that Mrs Beckerman is now describing, and can we, if we agree, actually take away the concerns that she is still presenting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u118	You have two questions. I have one comment to make first. The oldest farmers in the Netherlands were not in Swifterbant. There's the oldest field. I would like to tell you more about the oldest farmers, the linear band ceramics and South Limburg, but the President will not accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u119	Tell me about that. What exactly was it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yes, Mr. Chairman, let's have a good debate on archaeology. That's what's gonna happen in this room. But for the moment, I would like to answer your question: is it true that, with regard to the Green Deal and private consumption, sales of such substances have fallen significantly? Yes. And there's the comma; this is a literal quote at the same time the sale of other active substances increased. So that was actually what the interrupting debate was about that I just had with Mrs van der Plas. We then see that the use of one drug is decreasing, but that people are going to opt for other means again. It was therefore noted that the sale of products that should not be used for weed control is also increasing. Mr Grinwis quoted it, Mrs Van der Plas quoted it. So we see that on the one hand it may have been successful for that purpose, but on the other hand there are all kinds of other problems. You also asked: didn't we do that balanced? We now see that the use of resources in floodplains is becoming more severe, because the water... We also have targets in the Water Framework Directive. We have to meet that. If we do not meet that, we will have to pay huge fines and we do not have our water quality in order. It is therefore very important that we take more measures to get the quality of the water in order. As far as we are concerned, the same applies to these Natura 2000 sites. That is why we want to go beyond what is now going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u121	Very good. I see you've been talking to Mr. Haverbort in his chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u122	That's what I thought. He is now, of course, Google on linear band ceramics. Mr. Chairman. I was almost at the end of my contribution. Let's keep an eye on the ball. Almost everyone in this Chamber wants to reduce the use of these pesticides, both in private use and in professional use, both inside and outside agriculture. I hope that the Secretary of State will still see minimising the use of these funds by 2030 as a feasible goal. What steps does it intend to take in the short term, in addition to this legislative amendment, to bring these objectives closer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u123	Fine. Thank you. I just want to say a little order thing. We have three more speakers to talk about. They have 14 minutes of pure speaking time, about 15 minutes. After that, I'm gonna suspend for lunch anyway. However, the question is whether part two of this debate should not be scheduled for another time. You yourself have a committee debate. And also considering the plenary schedule for today, it's starting to get a little messed up. I have an interest in this myself, because I have to sit in front of you late tonight and I... No, I'm not. But this is my proposal to you. I'll take a look at the Secretary of State first. Is there any pressure? I see that she agrees with the proposal. Mr. Haverkort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u124	That's a good idea. I think it's wise to do it this way, not just given the time. However, I would like to point out that the Water committee debate is, of course, planned at IenW, and that the Committee's debate on plant protection products, which you may be referring to, is planned at LNV and is aimed in particular at agricultural use. And this debate is, of course, explicitly about the use of plant protection products outside agriculture. So I do not agree with your suggestion that this be dealt with there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u125	No, that wasn't my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u126	Well, then I misunderstand you, but at least we've got this right now. I agree with your proposal that the second deadline be extended at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u127	Yes. And then we also do the first term of the cabinet at another time. Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u128	Support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u129	Very good. Mr. Van der Molen. You're welcome to raise your thumb, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u130	I'm putting my thumb up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u131	Mr President, the agenda for the European Parliament must of course never get in the way, so I support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u132	Thank you for your sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u133	Of course, the agenda of the Chamber is constantly in the wind, but that is a different story. Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u134	Yeah, that's our core business. I can even see Mr Madlener sticking two thumbs up. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u135	I, too, support the request. Is it perhaps an idea, then, that the Secretary of State has already answered the questions in writing in the meantime, so that we can proceed in a very concrete manner in the second period without having to reply for another hour and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u136	Yes, the Secretary of State nods. So those answers are all gonna come your way. We are all going to look for a moment in the agenda where part two of this debate can be shoved into. I would like to give the floor to Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to join in the warm congratulations to Mr Haverbort. He made a beautiful, personal and lived maiden speech. I immediately felt a bond when he told me he was just a farmer's son. That connects us. Mr. Chairman. In preparing this dossier, I felt that it was actually a bit about trust or mistrust. The coalition agreement is very much based on emphasising the need for public confidence in the citizens, but then a legislative proposal comes out of the culture of distrust towards the citizens. Despite the strict authorisation procedure for plant protection products, the government wants to have the possibility of imposing further restrictions on use. I would say that this is not really in line with trust in society. Mr. Chairman. You can already guess: I have some critical comments on this bill. The Chamber has adopted a motion by Mr Van den Anker and Mr Ziengs, which has been referred to several times, calling on the Government to base the opinion of the Board on the authorisation of plant protection products and biocidal products and to apply a ban only in exceptional circumstances. The present bill lays down a basis for a generic ban on professional use outside agriculture. That ban will be implemented immediately as it is already included in the underlying legislation. I can't reconcile that with the motion passed. The specific question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether, in line with the motion adopted, it opts for a review of the aforementioned block ban. In the case of authorisation of resources, a very critical assessment of environmental and health impacts is already carried out on the basis of extensive studies, including in the field of non-agricultural use. Then what is the reason why, on top of that, generically prohibit the professional use of all kinds of means? For example, in spite of all the gut sensations, the substance... is not so bad off in the scientific test by EFSA. In addition, you can't accuse professionals of empty syringes of substances like............................................................................................................................................................................. I would also like to point out that other methods of control, such as the use of garden and kitchen products such as cleaning vinegar and weed burners, also have their negative effects. I think colleagues have already made sufficient reference to this. Furthermore, I think it would be wise to keep sufficient resources in the toolbox to act quickly and effectively against pests such as buxusmot and oak procession caterpillars. Only providing space through exemptions and exemptions makes addressing such problems unnecessarily complex. Mr. Chairman. The bill allows the State Secretary to also prohibit the use of plant protection products by individuals. We find the basis for this to be lean. The Secretary of State writes that, by means of an information campaign, I would like to underline that: an information campaign, which has greatly reduced the private use of satsumas, and that at the same time the use of other active substances has increased. So that's some kind of waterbed effect. Individuals seem to have a lot left over for a beautiful garden. What would be the effect if these individuals stopped using plant protection products and then started using cleaning vinegar? What is the environmental impact of this? That's not a good thing, I'm guessing. That is why we see better information and investment in information. That is better than strictly banning, because of the expected waterbed effect. Furthermore, the legislative proposal does not distinguish between ordinary active substances and green low-risk substances, which are subject to separate authorisation criteria. The same applies to the prohibition of use for professionals. Why is this being swept up? Is the Secretary of State at least prepared to opt for an exception for the use of low risk means? I have tabled an amendment to facilitate that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u138	That's part No. Nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine... nine...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u139	That's part No. 9. That's right. The Secretary of State wishes to create the power to prohibit the use of plant protection products in floodplains and outskirts. It wants to use that power effectively to ban crop protection on agricultural land in floodplains. Where are the cows supposed to graze when the thistles advance? I think it's too generic and too rigorous. Where in the rivers are standards for herbicides exceeded? Rijkswaterstaat has a nice map showing the results of all measuring points. We've checked this out on a number of fabrics. We haven't seen any exceedances of standards. Therefore, the SGP would say: ensure targeted policies based on identified, real problems and not on alleged problems. Finally, Mr President. If I may, I would like to make a comment on the amendment tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr De Groot and Mr Thijssen with the aim of imposing restrictions on agriculture in areas where plant protection products can be used. On the one hand, it is a bit strange in this proposal, because this proposal has a different focus. On the other hand, I would like to point out, however, that the Secretary of State will refer this to the Minister of State, who said that the decision on activities has long included rules on emission control and spray-free areas along surface water. You don't have to turn it into spaghetti by putting a ban on it. That does not serve the clarity. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u140	Thank you. Then there is Mr Thijssen from the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to congratulate Mr Haverkort. Good luck with your work in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. On your sandwich, in your bedroom or in your lungs, we find traces of pesticides everywhere. Pesticides are a multi-headed monster. That is why experts have long called for an "One Health" approach that takes into account several aspects of the effects of pesticides: damage to nature, damage to water, damage to public health and its costs. Pesticides have a huge impact on the most important building block of life on earth: water. Surface water is an extensive ecosystem and raw material for drinking water production. In addition, water has a function for agriculture, fishing, shipping, recreation and industry. That is why agreements have been made in Europe to secure the most literally and figuratively important building block of our existence. The Water Framework Directive agreed that the water in all European countries is sufficiently clean and healthy by 2027. The Water Framework Directive provides for countries concerned to draw up a river basin management plan for each river basin, which focuses on environmental objectives for groundwater and surface water. Mr. Chairman. Only 1% of surface water in the Netherlands complies with the European agreement. More than 80% of them have moderate or poor quality. If this does not change quickly, not only are we threatening all kinds of fines from Brussels, but we are also heading for an impasse similar to that in the case of the nitrogen crisis. That's what several experts said last year. In 2020, the PBL estimated that the policy would only achieve 10% to 15% of the targets by 2027. Since then, little has really changed. The PvdA wants to ban the use of pesticides that are harmful to humans, the environment and ecosystems. Although this bill does not prohibit such pesticides, it is a step forward. It provides the Secretary of State with a basis for making decisions, decisions that are crucial to the "One Health" approach that I mentioned earlier. These are decisions that need to be taken now to achieve all kinds of goals and to avoid legal misery with the Water Framework Directive, simply to ensure a safe living environment, clean water for swimming, clean water for all kinds of life and clean water for drinking. This bill will not lead to the achievement of the objectives, but it will provide a basis for limiting the use of pesticides outside agriculture. So it's a step forward. Mr Bromet's amendment complements that step further and allows the Secretary of State to apply customisation. After all, the cabinet would like to work with covenants. But action must therefore be taken if the voluntary nature of these agreements does not lead to the mandatory results and the country may lock up, not because of too much nitrogen, but because of not enough clean water. So it actually makes sure that there is a tool in the toolbox that the Secretary of State can use if necessary. And it would therefore be strange if the Secretary of State were not in favour of taking more measures, especially if those measures were necessary to comply with a legal obligation and offer tailor-made solutions. For until now, the current measures and the possibility of measures have not led to the mandatory result. I am therefore very curious to see how Mr Bromet's amendment is judged by the Secretary of State. In addition, the coalition agreement stipulates that the standards for the use of resources are to be aligned with the Water Framework Directive. It would therefore be strange if the coalition parties, against their own promise, did not support this amendment. I am therefore pleased that one of the coalition parties is underneath it. I therefore assume that the coalition parties can support this amendment. After all, action must now be taken to ensure a healthy living environment and clean water. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u142	Thank you. The last speaker for lunch is Mr Madlener of the PVV... who renounces his speaking time. Well, I knew there were people in this room listening to me. That's highly appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-5.u143	Then I'll suspend until 2:00 p.m. Then we have an arrangement of work. So I shall suspend until 2 p.m., then we have the order of business and put part two of this debate on the agenda for another time. So far.
