ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The next item is the amendment of the Financing Act for political parties in connection with the evaluation of this law, the Evaluation Act Wfpp, House of Representatives 35657. Today is only the first term of the Chamber, because many speakers have spoken with long speaking time. The aim is to resume treatment next week. I appeal to you to keep the interruptions concise and businesslike. So don't make long speeches. That is why you have your own speech. You have entered with ample speaking time, so if you are interrupting, please do so succinctly and ask each other a question directly. That is what the interruptions are meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr Van Baarle, who will speak on behalf of the DENK Group, will be the first to speak on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, confidence in Dutch politics is extremely low. Six out of ten Dutch people have little or no confidence in national politics. This, of course, has to do with events taking place in the political arena. Think of Prime Minister Rutte, who is a champion of lies and broken promises, of the long formation and of the extravagant crime, in which politics has caused the government to attack its own people racistly. Mr. Chairman. Low confidence also has to do with concerns about party financing and openness. People in this country have questions. Are the parties transparent about what they do? Which donors are behind political parties? And who influences the views of the parties? How much money do political parties get and from whom? Why are they getting this money? Who's interested in this? Is politics leading the way to big moneylenders or are there forces abroad trying to steer our political parties? Mr. Chairman. These concerns are justified. Europe's anti-corruption watchdog, GRECO, has been pointing for years to the lack of regulation on party financing in the Netherlands. Parties that receive a huge amount from a millionaire or from companies: that is not a problem in the Netherlands. We saw it with D66, who could write a million euros in the bank to decide the campaign. We saw it at the CDA, where internal rumblings were about the influence of lenders on the choice for a list puller and on the choice for substantive plans. That was about 1.2 million euros. And we see it at the PVV, which is funded by racist clubs from abroad. In the Netherlands, parties can receive huge amounts of money from companies and organisations, they can cover them up with constructions that run through foundations and they can recruit lenders without offering openness of business. The Netherlands is therefore a ludicrous country for political parties that are on the money infusion of rich stinkers. Mr. Chairman. As I said, that's why people have questions. When people hear that D66 gets 1 million euros from a rich stinker, people wonder if democracy in the Netherlands might be determined by big business. When people see that the CDA has internal reports about the influence of lenders on the party program, people wonder if the voter has the last word or the big money. When people see that in the VVD all opaque foundation structures are used to collect money from rich people, people wonder what such a political party does: for the voter or for the money? Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, we are therefore going to restrict the funding of political parties. The Netherlands must not be ruled by the political party that happens to have the best links with big business or generous millionaires. The electorate must have the power in the Netherlands and not the big money. Do we want a democracy in the Netherlands in which political parties who have positions that are good for business and for big business are financially rewarded and those who do not have those views are financially punished? That is not the conception of DENK's democracy. Mr. Chairman. DENK therefore asks the government why GRECO's recommendations have been followed so lightly in recent years, but also in this bill. Why have the anti-corruption proposals not been followed up for so long? Is it true that there was rather a legislative proposal with stricter requirements for political parties, but that bill was not eventually sent to the Chamber? Why is that? Why does a cabinet led by Prime Minister Rutte always show that it is not important to combat corruption and promote integrity? Whether it is a question of directors applying to a lobby company or of violating the code of conduct for directors, every time it seems that under Rutte integrity is at the bottom of the list. I ask this minister why. Isn't this what we're gonna do with a mud figure on an international scale? DENK therefore wants to tighten up the legislative proposal, in terms of funding for political parties from abroad, for example. With geopolitical developments, it is important to protect our democracy from any interference. However, DENK does not consider it desirable for our democracy to be influenced from abroad. In recent years, the PVV has been eagerly filling its pockets with suspicious money from America. It was always Wilders who shouted the loudest when it came to banning foreign funding of Islamic institutions, where DENK, of course, is opposed to the PVV, but the PVV is silent when it comes to foreign funding of political parties. In 2016, the PVV voted against motions by DENK and the CDA to limit foreign funding of political parties. Want to take the money from mosques, but let the cash be baked by racist clubs abroad. That's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u4	The word "racist" doesn't mean that much anymore. When a left wakes up, he starts screaming: racist, racist! The word has actually lost all meaning, but left-wing people measure a kind of moral superiority by screaming that word. Well, congratulations, you may. I'm very curious what racist clubs they are. Mr Van Baarle said that he strongly opposes foreign interference in the Netherlands, but I read all the reports that DENK has placed all kinds of pro-islam advertisements in the Turkish media and advertises against the enemies of Islam. In the homeland of DENK, Turkey, it is said: look, the enemies of Islam grow and you must do something about it; give money to DENK. That's foreign interference, isn't it? Two questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u5	The homeland of DENK is the Netherlands, I say to Mr Bosma. There can be no PVV'er to convince anyone that the Netherlands is not the home country of DENK. We're staying here. I would like to say to Mr Bosma that we should get used to that. We are part of this country and are fighting here for a more just Netherlands. Everything Mr Bosma says is lies. I would ask him to answer for himself about the financing of the PVV. For example, we are talking about Robert Shillman, recorded in investigative journalism, who states: with this checkbook I support Geert Wilders. Robert Shillman acts in networks that the Proud Boys have funded. For example, the Proud Boys has been recognised by Canada as a terrorist organization. The PVV grabs from a cashier who is also used to support terrorist organisations. Can Mr Bosma answer for this? Why does the PVV fish out of such a turbid pond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u6	For the record, I would point out to Mr Van Baarle that he will be able to ask questions later on in Mr Bosma's term. Mr Bosma, for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u7	I'm just asking two very simple questions. One: on racism. Two: about the Turkish money that DENK raises in Turkey, under the flag of fighting the enemies of Islam. Those are just two very simple questions. He can answer that, can't he? Otherwise, there is no point in this debate at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u8	I have answered those questions. It is pertinent nonsense that we would raise money in any country outside the Netherlands. Show it! Show it! Show it! Show it! Show it to me, I say in the direction of Mr Bosma. I can only observe that Mr Bosma refuses to answer for the fact that the PVV receives money from someone who has financed an organisation that is known as a terrorist organisation in the course of the debate that I have with him. I note that the PVV is funded by the David Horowitz Freedom Center. David Horowitz has said that slavery is the fault of people who have been enslaved. You can't have it more racist. I therefore ask Mr Bosma once again. If he refuses to answer for that, all I can find out is that he's a coward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u9	Mr Van Baarle, you will be able to ask the question you wish to ask when Mr Bosma's speech comes. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u10	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Geert Wilders' PVV received more than €126,000 in two years from the controversial David Horowitz Freedom Center. This American foundation is known as one of the main financiers of anti-Islamic organizations. The foundation leads extremist projects to qualify Islam as a religion of hatred, violence and racism. David Horowitz, as has just been said, is known as right-wing extremist and Islam hater, and it is someone who has said that slavery would be the fault of enslaved. Mr. Chairman. In 2017, Wilders even took €176,000 from the extremely polarizing and racist American Robert Shillman, whose views correspond to those of the PVV. As has just been said, Robert Shillman acted in networks that the Proud Boys have funded: an organisation that is now seen as a terrorist organisation in Canada, for example. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister for a response to the fact that the PVV, a political party here in the Dutch Parliament, is apparently financed by forces from America, who co-finance organisations that are seen in countries as terrorist organisations. It shouldn't be any crazier, should it? Mr. Chairman. People are wondering about this sort of thing: are Wilders' statements based on what he thinks or should he make those statements for the money of racist clubs? Is the PVV controlled by illustrious clubs from abroad? It is totally undesirable for DENK that parties like the PVV are financed by extremist hate clubs from abroad, who try to make politics in the Netherlands even more hateful. DENK opposes all forms of foreign funding of Dutch political parties. It should not matter whether the money comes from Germany, England or America. Buying influence with money is not limited to European borders or the borders of the European Union. Any appearance of foreign influence must be avoided. Why has the government not provided for a total ban on financing political parties and bans only funding from outside the EU? Are we not at risk that the ban on funding from countries outside the EU will be bypassed by routes through other European countries? Is it true that the ban on EU funding by the government is seen only as not proportionate? That means that it would be practically possible. What is the government's reaction to the fact that several European countries have imposed a total ban on foreign funding of political parties, including funding from within the European Union? I call Greece and Croatia. Those are countries that have banned foreign funding of political parties in the category. My question to the Minister is: why should this not be possible in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u11	I am looking for when the proposal comes in response to the interrupting debate. I have two questions because I would like to understand. I see that Mr Van Baarle has invested a lot of time in making amendments and possibly also motions. He says, "Fund from abroad." Does he mean by this: foreigners who support a political party in the Netherlands, for example through a gift, or anyone who lives abroad, so for example also Dutch? 'Cause that could be complicated. Then there's my second question. If I listen carefully, you will agree to a ban on financing outside the EU. That is what you support, and you would prefer that this should also apply to funding within the EU. The Council of State has made a number of comments on this. He says: if the government wants that, then you need a firmer justification for that. What do you think is the argument to limit the free movement of capital or goods so you can also see it as being too much, other than that you have Mr.Bosma's club... Well, I won't repeat the argument. I assume you have other arguments as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u12	Let me begin by saying that I am sorry that Mr Ellian feels that I have just come to the proposal. The question I am asking about a political party in the Netherlands being financed by foreign parties that would also finance terrorist organisations seems to me very legitimate in this context. It also affects the proposal. Then there is Mr Ellian's question. In other European countries there is a total ban on financing from abroad. The usual way to shape that is along the line: do you have the nationality of a state? Then, through the law on party financing in those countries, political parties may only receive gifts from people who are nationals of the country. There could also be other ways of design. That is why that is the question I am asking the Minister. We see in many countries that it is standing practice. I therefore believe that the government may have been too firm by saying that the free movement of capital and goods is a very important asset for us too. We do allow this because there is room for it in other countries. Then there is Mr Ellian's question as to what the argument is against foreign funding of political parties. In principle, we believe that Dutch democracy is something that concerns Dutch people and that any foreign financial interference in Dutch democracy at least brings with it the appearance that we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u13	A follow-up question from Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thanks for the answer. I think this is a very interesting and important point. I myself am struggling with the question of how we deal with funding within the EU. There may also be voices of: should you be able to rely on it within the EU? But if I understand correctly, you say that even within the EU, for example from Italy or Spain, we find it undesirable, because even then the appearance of influence may arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u15	Yes. The political context is a matter of decision-making, and Parliament is making it more important than, for example, business traffic or anything else. You really need to be careful interference from abroad. Therefore, this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u16	Last March, DENK paid for advertisements in Turkish media to warn against parties like the PVV. In those advertisements, you also called on Turkish Dutch to vote for DENK. I therefore believe that you are wearing very big pants about interference from abroad in the Netherlands, while you yourself have been looking for the media there to get your votes. Do you agree that it is a strange reproach if you accept that? Second. Are you, as DENK, not also prepared to accept any funding from Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u17	I would ask Mr Eerdmans to speak through the President. Mr Van Baarle for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u18	I think Mr Eerdmans is putting on some big pants by polluting the debate with a flood of pertinent lies. There has never been any talk of DENK sponsoring or funding any media abroad. If you had done your homework, read the annual reports of the Ministry of the Interior, then you would have known that there has never been any mention that DENK has received any contribution from abroad. DENK was one of the first, and I think even the first political party in the Dutch parliament to table a motion to ban foreign funding of political parties. Mr Eerdmans would therefore be delighted if he did his homework better rather than come up with such ill-prepared interruption, which does not touch either side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u19	So Mr Van Baarle denies that advertisements have been placed in Turkish media, for which even your leader, Mr Azarkan, has already apologized, I believe, because that ad was placed exactly above or below a picture of Lale Gül. Then it was said: that is unfortunate. In that advertisement a call was made in Turkey to Turkish Dutch to vote for DENK in the Netherlands. Are you denying this now or are you in the process of remembering it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u20	Mr Eerdmans asks whether Mr Van Baarle is denying this. Mr Van Baarle may respond to that and then we return to today's legal treatment. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u21	Mr Van Baarle denies in all keys, pertinently, in any way that a campaign has been conducted from DENK and that from DENK with the aim of advertising abroad, advertisements have been paid to show up in the media. That wasn't a DENK campaign, that didn't fit in with DENK's campaign plan, we don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u22	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u23	I hear Mr Eerdmans saying he's going to think about it. I always encourage him to think. That is only good for the political debate. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point, the donations to political parties and transparency about this. In the case of people in the country, care or the large sums received by the parties is also important. As far as DENK is concerned, it would be a good idea to set a maximum amount for donations and donations that political parties can receive. That's how you prevent people from buying influence from political parties. Mr. Chairman. In the international context, this is already the practice in many countries. DENK will therefore support all the amendments proposed to establish a maximum amount in the framework of grants in this respect. The question to the government is whether it shares the view that it would make sense to set a maximum amount for donations and donations. And why did the government postpone the discussion on the maximum amounts? Because you really shouldn't want political parties to get amounts in the order of millions of euros, like D66 and the CDA. Isn't it the big money that brings about a decision in election campaigns? Mr. Chairman. In addition, DENK wonders why we should allow entities other than individuals to give money to political parties. Why, for example, should companies or foundations be able to finance a political party? Does the government share the view that funding through foundations poses the risk of a conflict of interest, because it gives political parties the opportunity to receive money in an opaque way through a foundation and that we can hardly reduce the origin of that money? Why should we allow corporate gifts to political parties at all? Why should we even have to allow gifts from companies that have a contract with the government, or receive subsidies from the government? Why not join all those other European countries that only allow donations of natural persons to political parties? Because no matter how you turn it, gifts from companies and foundations always bring with them the question of conflict of interest. Mr. Chairman. It is also common practice in several European countries that political parties should not borrow, that they should not borrow from companies or organisations, or that such loans or debts should be subject to regulations. I have two questions for the government. Firstly, how does the government estimate the risk of donations, donations and party financing moving to loans with the limitations of this bill on donations and donations? How much does the government consider that risk? The second question: does the Minister share the view with DENK that it would be a good idea to strengthen the demands on debts and loans from political parties at all? As far as transparency is concerned, DENK has already tabled an amendment. Mr. Chairman. According to DENK, it is also important that parties should be more transparent about their donors. In line with the advice of GRECO, we believe that the threshold for disclosure of the names of donors should be reduced. Disclosure should therefore not only take place with donations starting at €4,500, but in accordance with the advice of the Veling Committee for donations starting at €2,500. My group has tabled an amendment on this point too. My question to the government is why this advice from GRECO and the Veling Committee has not been followed in this legislative proposal. How urgent does this give the government transparency? Because people in this country have the right to know who are the donors behind political parties. With a reduction in the threshold amount, the Netherlands is also more in line with what is customary internationally. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. DENK also wishes to ask the Minister how the Minister looks at the possibility of giving political parties anonymously. In the Netherlands, the limit of being able to give political parties is currently €1,000 anonymously. In many other countries anonymous giving is prohibited at all, or there is a much lower limit. I believe that Mrs Leijten has tabled an amendment to bring that limit down. That has our support. But as far as we are concerned, it would also be a very good way to ban anonymous donations to political parties at all. Gifts to political parties must always be traceable. That must be accountable. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another question about contributions in kind. In the past, professors have pointed out the lack of accountability of political parties on this issue, for example, when it comes to politicians who make speeches and receive compensation for them. We all know the examples of, for example, Mr Wilders traveling around the world to make ill-groomed racist speeches to please his fascist friends. We also know the examples of room rentals that are cancelled or advertisements that are given as gifts. According to these professors, we do not read enough about this in the annual reports of political parties. My question to the Minister is: how will the Minister ensure that this is better recorded in the future? Finally, Mr President. Being able to express criticism is an important right within our democracy. You will not be surprised that DENK therefore finds the following. Also members of parliament who are critical and split up from a political group should not be taken away from the possibility of forming a political party in the long run and also getting funding for it while they are still in the Lower House. Because no matter how uncomfortable a division can sometimes be: division can also be a form of displeasure against established political doctrines in established political parties. It could also be a form of protest against group discipline and party dictatorships. In addition to the fact that we are also opposed to restricting speaking time and the budget of Members of Parliament who have split up, we are therefore also opposed to the measures contained in this legislative proposal to limit the possibilities for party financing of Members of Parliament who have split up. DENK therefore attaches this in principle. I would like to ask the Minister, on this point, in the interests of parliamentary democracy, to maintain the fundamental possibility of criticising your group, then to split up because you want to avoid party dictatorships and political discipline and then to establish a party. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u24	You'd almost think today's bill is about the transparency of one party. Of course it isn't. I believe that DENK's colleague believes that transparency should apply to all political parties participating in our democracy. I may have missed it because I was discussing something, but how does the DENK Group look at the amendment we have tabled on the financing of local parties and to include it in the functioning of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u25	That is a fair question, and the childish answer is that I have to study the amendment just as carefully before I say whether we are in favour of it or against it. You also know the procedure: I have to discuss this in the group on Tuesday. But in any case, we from DENK have always been sympathetic towards the direction of imposing the same system of transparency and accountability on both local parties and local groups as on national parties. I have always found it very strange that, for example, large parties, I will not name names, because then Mr Eerdmans might be angry in certain large cities receiving quite a lot of money and that we do not know anything about it. I also think it is right that those local parties who do good work in the local democracies should also receive funding for this, because these parties are now having a rather difficult time organizing themselves. So I can certainly go in the direction of the amendment, but we are going to study it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u26	Okay, that's fine. Of course, we always have to do that. But when it comes to the fact that the voter and not the donor determine in a democracy, DENK supports the SP line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u28	For the rest, I would like to recommend to Mr Van Baarle that the other amendments tabled by the SP should also be examined and presented to his group in a positive way at all points where he has just warmly recommended that they be included in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u29	I have now come to know Mrs Leijten as a diligent fighter for transparency and against corruption. I therefore believe that the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will certainly be appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u30	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten, who will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u31	Buying elections doesn't happen in our country, does it? This is only happening in America, which you know is that presidential candidates depend on all kinds of gatherings of the rich and the powerful in America, which they will never tackle, for example with tax increases? As a result, you can always see that policies are knocking down on ordinary, hard-working people who do not take advantage of facilities such as good housing, good accessible health care, good roads. That's all America, right? You'd think so. That is not the country of democracy but of philanthropy, where the rich with their full wallet and not democracy determine where the money goes in society. Not those we have chosen will decide where the tax money from all of us goes and what facilities we arrange for each other. No, that's what the rich do, and that's what we call "good goals." That philanthropy is very interestingly described by Giridharadas. He was in the Chamber with us two or three years ago. He has also spoken for the Committee on Finance and has explained to us why the super rich will not be the solution and will not solve problems, such as the lack of capacity in our country. Super interesting to check again. That was a nice meeting. Why do I call that here? We call our democracy 'a democracy' and not 'a country of philanthropy', but the SP is questioning that. We can already see that there is far too much going on in the back rooms and that there is a lot of lobby. The Brussels lobby suddenly lobbies gas and nuclear energy as a green investment, but we also saw in the financial crisis that there was very good and strong lobbying for all kinds of bank interests. But we also see this in the Netherlands. If you want to do something about the power of the health insurance companies and assume something in the Lower House, then, hoppa, the health insurance companies will immediately organize a lobby in the Upper Chamber. The minister knows exactly what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. The fact that elections are also influenced by money, sponsorship and the interests involved is now widely recognised. We have, in recent years before this amendment of the law came about, finally discussed it, because it has already had enough reason to pull the brake together and to say: whoa, wait a minute, are the democratic principles, namely that the voter and not the thickest wallet in our country, are still standing? We're discussing this today. On the basis of this bill, a motion has been passed in which you do not have to do foreign financing. But then again, the bill is only about foreign financing from outside the EU. The SP thinks that this is a bit hypocritical, because if you say that you do not want influence from abroad, why do you want it to be possible from within the EU? We all know, especially the financial spokesmen, what construction is possible. For example, any Russian oligarch can buy Maltese or Cypriot passports, then settle on the Zuidas and hoppa: he can give. This is also possible through all kinds of trading companies. If you say that we do not want our democracy to be influenced from outside the European Union, why do we want it to be influenced from within the EU? There are countries - Mr Van Baarle mentioned them already - which do not allow that at all. The SP would suggest that we do not allow that at all. Mr. Chairman. That's actually what it started with with this bill. But then this bill stayed behind and the treatment was postponed. We also did not get any answers from the Ministry to our proposals submitted. Then came the signal that something was going to change and that we had to wait a little longer. That took a long time. Now we stand here and the SP has thought: when we talk about funding political parties and the functioning of our democracy, let us do it right. The new administrative culture - whatever that may be - is in any case that the Chamber can amend a legislative proposal and also has to amend it if that is necessary. And I'm sure there's a reason. We think that it should always be clear who gives. That's the spirit of the Finance Act political parties. The spirit is: transparency, clarity, saying when and how to make it clear. But the law was not yet in force or all kinds of foundations, foundations, new entities, networks and you name it, with which you could hide, hide and mask who was giving. The spirit of the bill, advocated here by all political parties, was thus not done justice by most political parties. This has led to many amendments being tabled by the SP. I will certainly use the rest of my speech for that. We propose that there be given by people who are part of democracy and also votes. They are about the future of the country, because they are voters in the Netherlands. We have tabled three amendments to this effect. I don't know if the songs are still right, because there are also changes coming. In any case, it concerns only contributions by natural persons and secondary institutions. I have to say that both Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks and Mrs Arib of the Labour Party will co-sign that amendment. The second amendment regulates that you make public as soon as possible who contributes more than the limit we set. The limit we set probably goes down, but for now it's €4,500. You must also ensure that you only allow Dutch donors. That's what I just said. Secondly, we believe that there should also be a limit. We have seen this year, and also last year, as a result of influences in the minister's political party, that there has been discussion about who gives at what time and at what time that becomes transparent. Oh, no, this is about maximum, sorry, chairman. The ceiling was noticed by two other political parties in the previous elections. There was an entrepreneur who gave a million and a lot more. Another party said that transparently, but that should not have been reported according to the rules. I'm not at that maximum again, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to get it out of my head, but with a bill, it's always harder. The proposal for a ceiling. We have that ceiling in the amendment to item No. 16 to €100,000. That's arbitrary, because it could be lower and it could be higher. We put it at €100,000, because the Labour Party tried it with €50,000 in the previous legal treatment, and that was rejected. It may also be €50,000 from us. It may be less of us, too. It may also be more than that €100,000, but rather not. We think there should be a maximum. Within that ceiling, it is extremely important that it is, so that you should not, as the VVD suggests, give extra money to campaign funds, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u32	I am glad that Mrs Leijten mentions all these examples. That ceiling is indeed arbitrary, exactly as she says. But I really saw a few amendments that I thought were a lot of overlap. GroenLinks argues for €25,000. We have also tabled amendments in the past for €50,000 and now for €100,000. We are not going to bid against each other, so my question is whether Mrs Leijten is prepared to put all these amendments together, so that we as a Chamber can table one amendment, in which we mention an amount that is substantiated and which may be more likely to support other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u33	Yeah, I'm sure I'm willing to. We don't have to outbid, we don't have to underbid. I am concerned with the principle that there should be a maximum; rather not too high. I also think that this should be the maximum. The VVD also opts for €100,000, but it says that you can still give in election time outside of that €100,000. I would say: no, that is not allowed. You can give €100,000, €50,000 or €25,000 in a year and that's it, elections or no elections. It is up to the parties themselves to save for that election and to make sure that you are ready for it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u34	I have also seen Mrs Leijten's amendment. The Animal Party is very sympathetic to this. We did have a question about it, because we also see a lot that people leave their money, inheritances. Then there is no apparent conflict of interest or political influence. If I am right, the amendment offers no exception for inheritances. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u35	That's right. I think you should include inheritances, yeah. That means that whoever leaves a legacy must take that into account, so say: there is €100,000 for that party and the rest of the inheritance goes to another charity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u36	I am also curious about Mrs Leijten's motivation, how she sees it. The Party for Animals sees no appearance of political influence in an inheritance. Often this is done by people who want to invest their money somewhere, because they are convinced that it serves a good purpose. Then there is no influence on election programmes or anything like that. I wonder how Mrs Leijten sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u37	Well, I doubt that. At the moment a family legacy comes, you may develop towards that family a certain loyalty as a party, whatever sponsorship that party gets. There doesn't have to be a contract, but you're developing loyalty, and you might also be behaving towards people who can give much as a legacy to your party, so I'd say don't. Don't do that with donations, don't do that with sponsorship, don't do that with inheritances. Someone who wants to leave something beautiful and has such a great legacy has a lot of other charities, which often touch political parties and their social insights, to indicate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u38	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u39	So I really wouldn't want that. And why? That's because the exception makes it going to be used. That is what we have seen in the first legislative proposal: at the moment when you can go through all kinds of related clubs, for which that transparency does not apply; then you can move it underneath. I wouldn't think it fair if, for example, you could save a gift through a legacy, when you agreed you wouldn't. So I wouldn't really want that to happen that way. I don't want any more masks. That is why we have the amendment on item No. 10. In that we say that you should always ask about the original giver of gifts. This means that this obligation lies with the political party. Then, the moment you don't know who it belongs to, you have to try to pay it back, and if you can't, it falls to the State. It goes a little further than the VVD amendment. That also means that you have to do your best to find out, but if that money has been passed on three times, then according to that amendment, you only have to give up the last transmitter. There is therefore a risk that you will be able to hide your gift with intermediaries again. I don't think we should. I do not want to suggest that this is the intention of the VVD, but that is what we are trying to exclude in our proposals. I would also ask the Minister to look at the amendments in this way. Maybe she can see if we've tackled certain escape routes, which may already be seen by the handsome lawyers at the ministry. If that is not the case, it is my party's explicit wish to do so. The initial spirit of the law, namely transparency, honesty and openness, is not respected. So you're gonna have to take care of it all in that law. In the case of anonymous donations, our proposal is to align with the way in which Belgium does so. They say: anonymous gifts are no longer possible above €125. For example, you have a pot with your own contributions on a public evening, in which someone puts €2. That does not need to be registered as far as we are concerned. But if someone there says he wants to give €250 to the party, then you just have to arrange for someone to register it, so that it becomes clear who that has been. Then we have to make it available to the public without delay, the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u40	There is another interruption by Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u41	Yes, before Mrs Leijten continues to her next point. Her point was about giving the anonymous. How does Mrs Leijten view the possible administrative burden on those who have to register all this when her amendments are adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u42	I consider possible administrative burdens subordinate to the desire and the principle of transparency. I think it's pretty easy to make it happen. Anonymity was not created in order not to have that administrative burden, but to not make it visible. Of that I say: if you give to a political party, you can be proud of it and then it is public.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u43	Has Mrs Leijten also considered whether this would involve any administrative burden at all? I understand the principle, but has it been practically checked whether this is going to be difficult or whether it is going to be a threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u44	I don't think that's very relevant. I find that really subordinate to the principle. The principle is that if you receive more than €250, you are always obliged as a political party to see who it comes from and then say: "Dear sir or ma'am, you have given it to us; then we must mention you. And if the best gentleman or lady doesn't want that, then you have to return it. If you can't do that, if you don't come up with it, it'll go to the State. That's actually the working that's in there. In my view, political parties have a duty at all to find out where the money comes from. If you then have to make it public, it does not seem to me to lead to a very large administrative burden, but it is also subordinate to the principle. Then make it public right away. That is an amendment I tabled earlier, namely before the summer, when this bill seemed to be being dealt with. I believe that this amendment No. 9 has, but it may be that it has now received another song. Last week, the Minister sent a note on this subject stating that immediate disclosure is legally complex. Then I'll tell the minister to give me a break. Because immediately it's just immediate. Right? But yes, if you give it in the middle of the night or at the weekend then everyone understands that it will be Monday morning or Monday afternoon. The Minister has proposed that it should be made public within two weeks in excess of €50,000. And then you come back to those smart donors of those smart parties. They say, "You can count on me to give you an x amount, and I'll transfer it three days before the election." Then it will not be in the books before the elections and it will only become visible to us a year and a half later. And I don't think we should want to. The Minister and I are very close to each other, because we both want to, but then a ministry full of smart lawyers falls over the word "unfortunately." We think it's possible. The Ministry has a supervisory function and can therefore also describe how it intends to shape this. One thing is clear: the moment you get that €100,000 as a maximum, you make that public as soon as possible. If there's too much time in between, it's obviously a violation. So I'd say it's possible. The Minister found another flaw in the amendment. We said you'd make it public on your website. However, we forgot to mention that it has to go to the supervisor. We're gonna change that in the amendment. We can do that as co-legislator. Then the difference over the height. I think that's part of the debate. We have said: from the moment a gift is made public. There are proposals to bring that down. I think you should just handle that and not add another one. So let's say that the VVD proposal is that you have to report from €1,000 and that this amount in the DENK proposal is €2,500. We are sympathetic to both proposals. At least it has to go down. That will apply, so not the €50,000. That's also arbitrary. Then I would say: just join the border that is already there. Then the last proposal we make: bring local parties under the law. They will indeed receive funding, but then they will also have an obligation to make it transparent how they are financed. It can then also be monitored. In our proposal, we propose that the audit chambers should do so, because that is the local counterpart. Local authorities are often already looking at the use of the group funds available. It may also be connected to it. As far as we are concerned, it is not a law of Meden and Persians in that technique and system. As far as we are concerned, it is not necessary for it to end in the Ministry's assessment, because for the most practical implementation, I think we could find each other. I am concerned that local democracy is also part of this operation, precisely because of the same mechanism that the electorate must know how a political party gets its views. A political party is a democratic entity in which each member must have the opportunity to change his or her position. If you can buy that, whether or not you have a lot of money or because you sit in front of all kinds of network tables and whisper that, it's not healthy for our democracy. It is not healthy for national parties and not for local parties. That's why we want local parties on it. Mr. Chairman. In the main debate, which I believe we had two or three weeks ago, I asked the Minister whether she saw it as her task to reintegrate out-voted voters into democracy. If you read the Atlas of Abandoned Netherlands, you can see very well that those voters have been cancelled. The researchers who created this atlas talk about "outsiders" and "established people" in our country. Established people are optimistic and voices. They have their influence on democracy. But they are also heard more often and determine power more often. Outsiders are also excluded from that power. They may be put away as "not to take seriously." If you put that through the funding of political parties, and those settlers could also buy a party, the SP says that this is very undesirable. Over the past few years, we have been quite surprised at how certain problems have lasted a long time in our country without seeing them. Tens of thousands of families in the surcharge scandal have really been thrown in front of the bus and worse. This had to do with access to political parties, implementation organisations. That had to do with being heard and taken seriously. That touches on how we work as political parties. That affects how we are organized, and that also affects how we are funded. So I ask the Minister once again how she wants to deal with those outsiders, those outlawed people in our democracy. How are we going to get democracy back to everyone? I'm sure this minister can do that, if she wants to. The SP will support her and push her if she doesn't want to, or pull her, if she needs to. Our democracy really deserves to have a minister who is committed to the democracy of everyone, who is committed to ensuring that everyone's voice counts, and not just that of the big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u45	Thank you. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The essence of democracy is that people in the Netherlands decide what happens to the Netherlands, what policies we implement. For that we cannot meet with 17 million people in the House of Representatives, but we need intermediary organisations. Those are political parties. They are extremely useful in a democracy, I say, even though I have left one. And the fact that you're funding them is also extremely useful. You may have the impression that we are having a debate here today about the fact that we are paying a few million extra subsidies to the political parties. It's not even worth it. Because we are not talking about a few million; we are talking about a few billion. And let me explain myself. I'm looking at V-K. I am looking at a minister who, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, is responsible for ethics in the public sector and in the government. I also know her as someone who has always taken this very seriously in her personal life. At the slightest appearance of conflict of interest in the sector, we are shouting murder and fire here. We have had debates here, Mrs Arib, sorry that it was your party leader on a minister's sunglasses. We have had a debate about a charger in the car. That was a U.S. Secretary. That was about whether or not it had to be paid out of public funds. These were expenses of €50 or €100. You may like that, but politicians have an answer to that. Where is our big blind spot in the Dutch political system now? It's right at the heart of this bill. Who pays the political parties and is there the appearance of conflict of interest? If a political party accepts donations of three tons of money, I'll take a look at Mrs Teunissen's one-million-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar. Let me be clear: some of these people support these political parties for their ideal motives. So let there be no misunderstanding about that. But the appearance of conflict of interest is there, and it is simply reprehensible what influence is being bought. A memo of mine was leaked on June 12th. That was not entirely my intention, I say with some understatement, but I have noticed that there are lobbies in several political parties to expand the so-called BOR when transferring companies. You will say: oh, what a boring subject. That's a boring subject for you, Mr. Chairman, because you don't have a company. At least you don't have any in your secondary positions. But if your parents have a beautiful home, which soon costs three or four tons, and you inherit it, you will pay €70,000 inheritance tax on a house of four tons, if you are the only child. We have a tax exemption of 1 million for companies, so if you inherit your parents' company of 1 million, you pay zero tax. If the company is worth more than 1 million, you get 83% tax exemption. For every million more you do not pay €200,000, but you still pay €34,000. So you can get a company of 2 million and then you pay €34,000 inheritance tax. So remember that you paid a lot more about the four-tonne house your mother gave you. But that is not enough in this country, because you can apply this tax exemption twice. You have to keep the company going for five years. So what do people do? They say, "You know what? If I'm still a little on time, around 65, I'll give the company to my kid. Then I pay a little tax, 83% exemption, but after five years I buy the company back from my child." Why would you do that? You only do that out of tax motives. And a little later, when you die, or five years later, when you donate, you pour it again. But because a debt has arisen with the parent, you can not only give away the company, but you can also give away your entire private wealth almost without tax to the next generations. That's what fiscalists call "double luck." The BOF is the company follow-up facility; funny word jokes for fiscalists, you think. And so there are all kinds of people who like to give to political parties and want this company succession scheme to be maintained or extended. I've seen them at multiple parties. And then what do we do? We're all looking in the sky. I filed a motion in November to stop at least the double transmission of the company, using it double. It has been held back by the parties that I have strong suspicions have been influenced by sponsors. It hurts me to just tell that here, because this isn't how it should go. You should be for or against a law based on what you find. This appearance should disappear completely from this Chamber. I will re-table the motion after everything that has happened, to ensure that this company follow-up scheme does not become a fun toy for very rich people, when we can never find a euro here for the people who now have to have their thermostat at 13 degrees because they cannot pay the gas bill. They can never transfer a tonne to any of the political parties. Those fish behind the net. And then you will indeed come to the Atlas van Afjerkt Nederland. Then you see that gifts that are very large but relatively limited result in tax exemptions that cost hundreds of millions. You're thinking, well, that's an exception. Have a look back at the annals of this beautiful House of Representatives. You will encounter the CoCo affair around 2016. You will see that ING directly wrote the laws on behalf of the Dutch banks, giving them a tax exemption of hundreds of millions. That wasn't sent to the Council of State. This was done by means of a letter of amendment, so that we were not given any advice. The government said this was a technical change. It was only after intensive wobbling of the NRC that it became clear that you could change laws here outside the Chamber and that the government could say: it is a technical change. This is the death of democracy. That's not how we're supposed to spend money. That is why it is important that we look today at how you can influence political parties. It is also important because I still do not know how the coalition agreement was reached. When I look at the different electoral programmes of the political parties, I see that the coalition agreement is not very similar to what it contains. Then I would very much like to know who has spoken to the people in those 300 days, to know how such a climate fund, how such a nitrogen fund or how a whole number of other measures that I cannot find anywhere get into the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. A second point I would like to raise is a point in the bill which makes it even more difficult for splitters. I'm a splitter. It's taken my time. I've waited six months to tell you here, but I'm gonna do it anyway. I'm a C-room member. I'm not an A-kamer member, I'm not a B-kamer member, I'm a C-kamer member. I stepped out of the CDA because of what I saw and how people in the cabinet talked about me. I don't mean that they talk about me and think I should have a job elsewhere, because I'm not excited about that. As long as I say no, it's no. The fact that they're lying about it is more problematic. The fact that these people have not said anything about it to this day is actually unforgivable, because I have to tolerate one of these people as Secretary of Defense. I have to trust her with state secrets while she's lying about whether she's spoken of me. But more annoyingly, the Cabinet minutes showed that the CDA ministers were talking about how to sensitize me in the government. That was an unsustainable situation for me and reason to leave the CDA. Mr. Chairman. Since I left the CDA with 350,000 votes larger than many smaller parties here, I have half the speaking time, except in legal proceedings, so I can tell you here. In a corona debate, I can say something for two minutes. I can't argue at all. I have a quarter of the support of BBB or the Den Haan Group, which has also been split up. I get €130,000 for support; they get five tons. Yeah, because I've been separated. Because I've been separated, I'm getting another arrangement. I've tried to put it on the agenda here several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u47	I understand Mr Omtzig's frustration very well. I'd like to do anything in my power to make this be different. But I'd like to put in a little nuance. BBB and Den Haan are mentioned in one breath, but of course BBB is not separated. We just got a seat. That's what I'm saying in case people start thinking that. I'd like to keep that nuance. We're just an elected party. That is why we have this funding. But I fully support Mr Omtzigt in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u48	It was not intended to say that Mrs Van der Plas is separated from anything. She was chosen here. It's pretty good to come in here as a new party. She is also one of the four MPs who voted to change this, so in that regard all credits. I'm supposed to control the laws of this country. So I have one and a half employees right now to read through all the laws and determine how I vote. It's hard for me, but I'll tell you. I cannot exercise the thoroughness in the control of the government which I would like to exercise as a Member of Parliament. And there's something to check out here. I believe that I have demonstrated this in this Chamber in recent years. I'm capable of that. I had very good staff in the CDA group and also a number of good colleagues. But because I was forced to leave, I cannot perform my function as a representative of the people properly. Others may take tons of donations, but I do not get the support here internally and not the speaking time I need as a Member of Parliament. Is that all you got? No, I'm not. It says that in email procedures the votes of Mr Van Haga and Mr Omtzigt do not count. The Rules of Procedure are now such that we do not count when we vote in committees or by e-mail if we are not an alternate member or a member. Those memberships are not given to us. That is the same situation as a citizen who speaks. Now I have nothing against civilians, but I'm a 350,000 elected MP. I am looking at colleagues asking whether you want donors to have more influence or whether I am an elected MP. I received a letter from the Bureau stating that this will not be changed. I would like you to think very carefully about this; I would like to say this to colleagues. I want to be able to carry out my duties. I want to be able to do faithfully what I have sworn here to the Constitution. I want to fulfill my duties, and I can't do that right now. That's the essence of what's happening here, because if you do something the elite don't like, you're gonna get in trouble. If you're a Member of Parliament at GroenLinks and you say you want to maintain the loan system, take Zihni Özdil. you'll eventually fall out. If you are a Member of Parliament at the Labour Party and you say that the cuts between 2012 and 2017 were very tough, you fall out. Take Myrthe Hilkens. If you're a Secretary of State who disagrees with the 2G policy and is laughed at, you'll be fired by text message in this country. And if you're in the Volt Group and there's a press release coming out, you'll see what happens: someone gets worked out of the group effectively, when we don't even know what's going on. Members of parliament and government have become employees of political parties, whereas occasionally, not every day and not every proposal, they should say no and cooperate independently. But our political system has a fundamental problem at its core. You will make that problem stronger if you agree to this bill, which will reduce the support for splitters even further. It can happen to you too, I say to all the colleagues in the Chamber. It is undesirable in Dutch democracy. Mr. Chairman. However, this bill also contains a number of good things. I have to be honest with you about that, too. The present legislative proposal is based on the 2008 opinion of GRECO, the Council of Europe. Truly, it takes 14 years for us to put some things right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u49	But before you go any further, there are still interruptions at the previous point. I didn't see whether Mrs Van der Plas or Mr Van Baarle was before, but go ahead, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u50	Let me begin by saying that, as DENK, we fully support Mr Omtzigt's plea. It is not possible for Members of Parliament to be limited in their support and speaking time for any reason; Mr Omtzigt had a very serious reason. I have to ask the next question. In 2016, the decision was taken to restrict the speaking time and support for Members of Parliament who split up. Mr Omtzigt was still part of the CDA Group at the time. I would like to ask him whether Mr Omtzigt opposed it at the time. Was Mr Omtzigt of the opinion that this was not possible at the time? Or is it the case that what Mr Omtzigt has been through has caused him to have this view now? I understand that, of course. It is therefore without prejudice to our support that he should be given the full speaking time, for we have always been of the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u51	This is a perfectly legitimate question. The answer is that I have decided not to quote literally what we in the CDA Group have exchanged, because that group is a safe environment. You should not say afterwards: now that I am no longer a part of it... But let me tell you that it was also my opinion in 2016 and that I did not fall completely on my mouth, not even in the internal group discussions. However, you can look at my voice and I have agreed to my vote. I did not depart from the group vote in that particular vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u52	To be clear: Mr Omtzigt points out that in 2016 his opinion was that the restriction should not apply to split-offs? Then he adorns that consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u53	I could live with some containment, I say, just to be very clean for a while. Until then, if you split off, you also got the bonus for being a group of your own, namely extra seat support. I could live with it being handed in. I say this in all honesty, because I understood that in the general interest the Chamber did not have to pay an additional price for a split-off within a party. That was my opinion at the time. That would mean that splitters still have less than a single fraction. On these other points, however, I believe that the Constitution does not even have political groups, does not even have political parties, and that Members of Parliament must therefore also operate. Something else comes up, I'm telling you. If there are nineteen of us, that doesn't mean that we have to deal with every bill with the 19 of us. I was the only one not present at the Corona debate. I'm sorry, but 18 people can ask enough critical questions in the Corona debate. It would be a good use if we allowed five or six people to do the work in thorough legislation and spend more time preparing it than having 19 of us constantly in every debate and getting two or three interruptions there. Then it is up to me to be present more often and then the VVD is present at every debate, because of course they have a group of more than 30 Members. That then depends on the size of the fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u54	Before I ask my question, I would also like to add something. It is often said that people who split off are robbers and have no right to that seat. In the case of Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Haga, I think that is quite wrong. Mr Omtzigt has received 350,000 votes. He's good for four to five seats himself. He'll take one and leave the rest with the CDA. So Mr Omtzigt is certainly not a seat robber. The same applies to Mr Van Haga. I think that we should also be very careful with that word in this house, because it is also going to lead its own life in society. That said, there's something weird going on. I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt whether he would like to join me in this. In the Bureau, it was decided on the very first day I sat here that the Bureau, because of so many groups, would only consist of parties with six seats or more. That means that until the Animal Party there are people in the Presidium. All the parties underneath aren't in the Bureau. So I cannot make a proposal myself at the Bureau. Then I'll have to find a buddy, another party that is in it. But I don't want to look for a buddy, because I just want us to be in the Bureau. We are elected representatives of the people. Why can't we be in it? But that was decided by majority. With things like speaking time and splitting up, you should go to the Bureau. I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt, also because I support his speech, whether we can do something together, possibly with other parties. Because it's a very crooked situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u55	I understand they don't want 19 people in the Bureau. I remember the feedback I got from the Bureau with about six to eight parties. I can assure you that if there are nineteen... I see an ex-Room Chairman smiling there! It can well remember what can happen if nineteen people with more than average pits sit there and I see a Vice-President who can't stop his laughter. I must also say that the Bureau itself has been quite kind to DENK, who can provide the chairman of a committee. I'd appreciate it if one of us could be in it, so one of the small parties has one person in it. But you really don't expect every meeting to be a Polish country day. That is exactly what I have just argued here about legislative submission. But if you were to come up with the proposal to authorise one Member so that we can have a vote together with BE1, DENK and Mr Van Haga in a number of things that are of interest to small groups, I would strongly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u56	There is a brief follow-up question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u57	No, I don't have a follow-up question. In fact, I think it is a very good idea if, with a number of groups, which now have no place in the Bureau, we can make a kind of alliance that we, as a member, sit together in the Presidium. I'm all for that. I would like to discuss this with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u58	Please continue your argument, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u59	Colleagues who have ever been in the Bureau have talked me very well that you must have some aspiration for that. They weren't allowed to clap out of the school why they were, but if I saw their temperament when they came back from the Presidium, then I don't have the illusion that it's cozy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u60	Mr Bosma obviously feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u61	There are four, five members, former members and a former president of the Bureau. I am not allowed to clap out of the school about how things are going at the Bureau, but under Mrs Arib it was very cozy. It is now also relaxing and cozy, so don't worry about it. If you wish to make a motion to turn the Bureau into a Polish country day, I will judge it with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u62	Continue your argument, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u63	I was just trying to come up with a proposal that everyone can do a little bit, so that we don't put 19 people on every committee. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the bill before us. There are just some good elements in that. A good element is that it becomes clearer that secondary institutions are also covered by this law. So far you have been able to set up a business club, a foundation or whatever, and that was actually not covered by the transparency of political parties. That is what we often have in taxation. Then you put something in transparent in there for a while. That's where you throw the money. Then you don't know who puts it in, but you do know where it comes from. That is well regulated in this bill. The bill also provides that you have to report a gift of €50,000 per round. We can discuss the word 'per-circumcise' and the question of whether it should be in two weeks' time, but I really think it is progressing. I support the SP that it should also apply to local political parties and regional political parties, including the Fryske Nasjonale Party or the North Party. They should have support for this. You don't have to be in the Lower House for that. I ask the government why it did not accept that recommendation from the Veling Committee. However, there is one major omission in the bill. To that end, I propose an amendment. That's being made right now. Here's your tax spokesman. Your tax spokesman knows how to get around things. One of the things you can bypass is that this bill brings every party and every secondary institution under the regime, but not a holding company. In taxation, we assess everything at holding level: what is in it? So you can have a party. Let's call something a "party." Sorry, Mr. Vlemmix. That party has a business club, a foundation, a youth branch and a scientific institute. Don't get me wrong: you have the youth branch and the scientific institute for a reason in a separate structure. But you're having a party, and there's a lot of stuff under there. Maybe you've got ten business clubs under it. But why would you put ten business clubs under it? I can explain that to you. You can donate every business club €4,400. If you donate every business club €4,400, then no business club will reach the €4,500, you won't have to report it and you can get out of the commitments. So I come with an amendment which deals with the following. I want a party to say which business clubs and which institutions are affiliated like a youth movement. I want the party to put on the website: these are our affiliated institutions. That's transparent. I also want you to look all over the group at what they get from gifts. I am also in favour of a ceiling being introduced. I have to take a look, but I saw that the people in the commission mentioned €50,000 or €100,000. I'm totally fine with that. Then that should also apply to the whole area, otherwise you will have to create ten secondary institutions and still be able to collect EUR 1 million. I don't think that's what I was supposed to do. I'm curious to see how the government looks at that, to get this done. I am also curious to see which recommendations of GRECO we have not yet implemented. GRECO came up with, I believe, €600 to €700 as a limit for disclosure. It's $4,500 now. There's quite a gap in that. I'd like to know if there are any intermediate forms. Can you transfer money from abroad to the Netherlands via an intermediate form? What happens if a Turkish or Russian institution wants to do something with the Dutch elections within the law? Can a Russian company start a business in the Netherlands, in a Dutch bv-structure, to give something to a political party from that Dutch bv? Is that legal? And if that's legal, do we think it's desirable? And do we consider it desirable when it comes to a foreign government? Asking the question is giving the answer. I haven't found an easy way to ban it yet. That is why you do not see an amendment from me at this time, but I would be delighted if we could make this kind of foreign funding flow, which we really do not want to see here, and I think there is broad agreement on this, in one way or another, impossible with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u64	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u65	I'm glad it's about the bill again. I say to Mr Omtzigt: that is, of course, very easy to overcome. You can choose that only natural persons can be given. There are plenty of countries that do that. Then you can give nothing more as a company, even if you make a stop here as a Russian oligarch via a passport of Malta and a rented mailbox on the Zuidas. That's just not right anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u66	That's one way indeed. I am quite sympathetic to that amendment in itself, but I suspect that is not going to make it. That is why I want to know if there are other ways of not allowing this to happen to Dutch political parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u67	Okay. So there's a way. You just said, "I don't see a way yet." There is a way, namely not to allow companies to sponsor parties, other than natural persons. Those are the ones who can vote. Then I'll ask the question in a different way. Mr Omtzigt just said: I have a great deal of insight into how this works in political parties. That was a great deal of his speech. What would be the reason for political parties to stop being funded by companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u68	A lack of resources among political parties. Let's be honest. We are talking here in the Netherlands... That is why I was just talking about how much support we are talking about. We cannot always control all legislation as we would like to control it. We do it because we also have much less support per Member of Parliament. In Germany, for example, political parties have much more support. A number of political parties want to run a campaign and still want to do research, so they get sponsors to do so. But you will have to ask the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u69	I think you should talk about principles. So: how do you think democracy should work, and do you think companies should sponsor parties? Then comes the question of what parties actually need to be able to do their job. We can then talk about whether you need a very expensive party office, whether you should all have a car with driver and whether you should all make that much money. But that's the next question. You actually start with "the principle that." The SP has put it very clearly: only people who can vote. That is democracy. As far as we are concerned, it is going to be less than more, but at least with a maximum. So you exclude the companies with their interests from the sponsor and lobbying network, which we now know well in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u70	I don't think you're completely excluding the lobby network when you do have personal gifts and corporate gifts. I believe that a number of entrepreneurs will then pay it out of private property and will continue to engage in the same lobbying activities. In all honesty, I do not think that it is possible to solve everything, but I understand what Mrs Leijten is saying. It is indeed a way to reduce the influence. The most important limitation I see at the moment in Mrs Leijten's amendment is that there are variations tabled by Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks and I believe that the Labour Party too is an absolute ceiling, which we should at least start with. As far as I'm concerned, that should be a little lower rather than a little higher. I think that with transparency you can overcome something if you are also going to shape it effectively. Then people must be called by name and by name. I therefore ask the Minister whether there will be proper supervision. What will happen to this law if there is a form or appearance of conflict of interest? Of course, that's where the whole problem lies. We try to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest, but we never actually investigate whether it occurs. If it occurs, then we have no mechanisms to investigate whether it occurs. I'd like to challenge the government to indicate when you might be able to investigate that. I'm a little off my speech right now... I did it out of my mind today. That's the other advantage of reading the whole file, but I didn't quite get to write it out this weekend. Mr. Chairman. The minister says I have a good memory, but I cheated a little bit. After all, I have been on the Legal Affairs Committee of the Council of Europe for 18 years and have been following GRECO for 15 years. So I've read those reports all the time and I've been constantly looking at what we should and could do with them. That's why it wasn't all new I had to read this week. However, I would like to go over the point by point to see which recommendations of GRECO we have followed and which we have released. I mentioned one, namely that of the local political parties in the report of the Veling Committee. I think we should pay attention to that. Mr. Chairman. If we manage to work together to ensure that not the big money is decisive, maybe what Obama did: a crowdfunding action to increase political acceptance, so that we could go back to politics with all of us, then perhaps we would also talk more about ideals and less about large companies. Perhaps that would be the greatest gain if this law were passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u71	Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Ellian, but first I would like to draw attention to the following: somewhere this evening we are going to suspend for dinner break. I have the ambition of getting that started somewhere between 6 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. Then you know that and you can take that into account. Having said that, Mr Ellian has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u72	Mr President, thank you. For me, the file was new, by the way. So I had to get into it all the way. I wanted to say that I enjoyed doing that, but frankly, it was pretty tough stuff. But we are going to do something about it and I am also pleased to see that several colleagues have done a solid job of this legal treatment. I said it was raining amendments this afternoon. Maybe it is unusual, but I will do it anyway: first of all, I would like to thank the people of Bureau Legislation, because I see that they have done a lot of hard work, not only in this legal process but also in some others. Without them, I would not have been able to table my amendments. Mr. Chairman. This legal treatment has not been postponed once or twice. I think Mrs Leijten knows that better than I do. But it's often postponed. That also led to some frustration for me. 'Cause then you're gonna get ready and it's not gonna happen again, because there's another important subject. At some point I thought: it's time we started talking about this. After all, the subject is relevant enough, you would think. When I was preparing, I stumbled upon the Law of the political parties. I have to tell you, this law is getting almost mythical proportions. It has already been announced a few times, but no one knows exactly what its contours are and when it will come. My first question to the Minister today is the following. That law does not necessarily have to become mythical, but it would be nice to know when it will come: a new start, a new ruler. It is also relevant for the following reason. The law that we are discussing today must eventually be incorporated into the Law on Political Parties. So it's all the more important that we have a dot on the horizon. Mr. Chairman. I would like to outline three important principles. I believe that today's first important starting point is that transparency is a cornerstone of democracy. The previous speakers have all mentioned this in their own way. Another fundamental principle is, of course, the integrity of the democratic process. This cannot, of course, be emphasised enough, as can the fact that people need to be able to trust that the democratic process is conducted in integrity, but also, of course, that elections are conducted in integrity and that we are elected with integrity. The third principle, which I believe is very important, is that political parties take a fundamental position in our state system. I noticed I got promoted today, because I wasn't yet qualified as an intermediary. But I thought that was a nice comment from Mr Omtzigt. In a way, we are. But of course we are the connection between the people who vote for us. We're the institution that eventually makes the laws. On the basis of these three principles, I have a number of questions for the Minister. I have, of course, tabled a number of amendments. I think it is logical for me to explain these amendments in my speech. I just asked the Minister a first question. My second question to the Minister is also one of a fundamental nature. I don't mean that one. But I do think it's important to ask him. What does the Minister himself think of this bill? That is what I am asking for, because there are so many amendments and so much time has been requested. That says something about how this bill lives in the Chamber and therefore also with a lot of people. I don't want to judge the quality yet. The fact that we split the treatment in two also says something. That is why it would be very pleasant for me to hear how you look at the construction that is now in place. Are you satisfied with that? Should there have been anything else? Maybe we should just fly it in a different way? Because there are quite a few amendments which change things on a number of fundamental elements. Mr. Chairman. Then I have some more specific questions for the Minister. Then I come to my amendments, which, of course, are at the heart of my speech. A first question on a specific subject stems a little from my interruption with Mr Van Baarle. We cannot be frivolous about the issue of gifts from abroad. That's important. It is clear that the bill makes gifts from outside the EU impossible. I repeat Mr Van Baarle's question, but I do so because it is important enough. How does the Minister look at this within the EU? Can we make the following distinction? Dutch citizens who live elsewhere and of course have the right to vote here may, for example, make a donation. But then, for example, you forbid an Italian from giving a gift to a political party. Because that is not the case at the moment. Wouldn't it be wise for us to think about that? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a technical question, which is very important in 2020. It is about which data of a donor or a giver will eventually become public. Fortunately, it is good practice that the Minister of the Interior gets all kinds of overviews of political parties and makes them public. That is of course important, because then voters, and if there are no elections, just interested citizens, can get to know who donated. What struck me is that the address details of natural persons are fortunately not made public. That seems quite normal to me, because I don't think it would be nice if you could see everyone's address. While I have looked fairly well, the legal basis for this is not to be found. This is because Article 21 of the Act, in its present form, remains more or less the same, even after the adjustments, that the political party records the name, the quantity received and the address. The current Article 25 says that you will, of course, report those data to the Minister depending on a certain limit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister shall make it public. But my question to the Minister is: would it not be good if we also stated that the specific address is not made public and that making the place of residence public is sufficient? Looks like this is good use now. I did a little digging in the Acts. The explanatory memorandum to the current Act 2010-2011 states that disclosure of residence by the Minister of the Interior is sufficient. It would be wise, in my view, to give this a place perhaps just as explicitly, because the protection of personal data in 2022 also has a different dimension. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question along the lines of Mrs Leijten's amendment. I have to admit that the words "without delay," "standing" and "immediately" fascinate me greatly because they are very similar, but legally different. It doesn't matter now. It's about: as soon as possible. I understand Mrs Leijten's considerations very well. In my opinion, a colleague from D66 asked: what burden does that entail for those who have to keep up with all these gifts? I still can't figure out what the obligation to register will be. In my view, there is an amendment by DENK to reduce the obligation to register. There are also amendments that say that we are going to make the data public more quickly. If we were to consider making a lot of gifts public without delay, that would require something. My question to the Minister is: how do you view this administrative pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u73	I have looked at it, including the interruption of Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz of D66, but the Veling committee says that she does not expect any administrative burden if you reduce that amount of €4,500. My amendment is based on €4,500. But as far as "doing it without delay" is concerned, you have to do the administrative thing; you have to pass it on to the Ministry of the Interior. It doesn't matter administratively whether you do that "unfortunately" that's the text in the explanatory statement or as soon as possible, as the legal text indicates?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u74	If you start from the premise that after this legal process a lot of gifts have to be made public, you will have to perform that act at some point. Then the question is only when to do that. I hope that you will also taste in my words that I consider the issue of how quickly you should make a donation public very carefully. I'll wait for the Minister's answer. I would like to inform you that 'without delay' or 'before' actually means 'without any opportunity', as is sometimes said. So that's really faster than fast; that's what I used to say to students. "As soon as possible" is slower. But I think there's a case for that. Also in response to Mrs Leijten, I say that I have the following problem. There's actually a gap now: up to 21 days before the election, you have to keep track of everything and then you make it public. I'm also struggling with the hole that exists now. That is actually undesirable, because we have seen that large donations are made within that hole. I am therefore waiting with interest for the Minister's answer. I understand what Mrs Leijten is saying: if you have to do the act, how much burden is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u75	I think it is very good to hear that there is a positive view of this. You just see that the three weeks created are immediately used as a time lock to do it. That is why I am against those ten working days, those two weeks, of the Ministry, because the spirit of the law must be: as soon as possible. "Jesus, I couldn't do it within a day, because someone was sick," I think a supervisor can get out of his way with that. Mr Ellian asks about the administrative burden: it is already the case that the amendment sees direct disclosure of matters that eventually become public. The level of this is still part of the debate, of course. Will that remain €4,500 or will that be €1,000 or €2,500? We will see that when we vote. What needs to be made public immediately, according to the amendment, is already, in the end, an administrative burden, because it needs to be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u76	Sure. When it comes to speed or timing, I would just like to mention the fact that a political party has to disclose to the ministry information which is then made public, I think it is important that you have an eye for feasibility. I had made an amendment with the help of Bureau Legislation, but I myself came to the conclusion that I was going to complicate things unnecessarily. But I, too, was struggling with this issue. Don't you want the voter to be able to see what gifts and donations have been made before he goes to the voting booth? That's actually what you want, because then the voter can make an informed choice. Then you'll only run into the question of the term you're taking. Anyway, I await with interest the Minister's response to this point. But it is clear that it has to be a bit clearer and sharper than it is now in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions to the Minister. I shall now turn to the four amendments that I have tabled on behalf of my group. The VVD has just been addressed a peer time, but of course I remained patient and calm. The starting point is that you don't want to create dependence on one giver. That's undesirable. You also don't want the appearance of one giver being able to exert influence. The four amendments are coherent, but I really have to exclude one of them, because that has nothing to do with the border. That is the amendment that two colleagues have tabled. This is about the transfer of a piece of subsidy from the State Department of the Interior for viewers to the State Department. We find that undesirable. We would like to keep that subsidy as it is. The colleagues of the Animal Party and those of the Christian Union are tabling this amendment. Anyone who wishes to contribute to this is welcome. We're gonna take care of that. I will not go into too much detail about this amendment. The other amendment concerns the ceiling. The VVD also advocates a maximum, also for natural persons. I just heard in interrupting debates that it matters less to a natural person. Why? A natural person can have influence, can't he? That natural person is ultimately also the interested party behind a holding company, I say to Mr Omtzigt. I was not a financial spokesman, by the way, but as a lawyer I was supposed to identify the final interested party, which could be a job in itself. The amendment of the VVD therefore refers to natural and legal persons within the meaning of, for example, private companies. All this should not be allowed above a tonne. The amendment does indeed exclude foundations and associations. The idea behind it is that this does not create dependence on one giver, because it is a interplay of several people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u77	I do not know whether this is about the amendment concerning the conditional donation by foundations. I actually have two questions for Mr Ellian. Why is he making an amendment that deals only with foundations and associations, when we are also talking about companies? We propose that only natural persons should give gifts. The VVD says: we really want to restrict foundations and associations. But such a foundation or association was also set up for a certain purpose? Why is it desirable that you have foundations and associations set up for that particular purpose give money to your political party?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u78	It's also called fundraising. Several speakers have just referred to this. I've been thinking a lot about what to do with that. In itself, it is well imaginable that people unite in an association, with a certain form of membership, and that this association aims to support a political party or a starting point of a political party. When you talk about transparency and the appearance of influence, you want to avoid the appearance of influence and then you want it to be transparent how a party gets its money and that no dependence is created. When I look at these three principles and they apply to an association, I come to the conclusion that in itself there is not that much going on there, provided... I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I take the opportunity to ask the Minister through you, Mr President, whether the amendment is correct in its implementation and, if not, how I should amend it. If a political party is to receive a donation from an association, it must be clear, as far as we are concerned, how these amounts have been built up. So I have an amendment, which shows that all donations must be public over €1,000, so everything. We have thought very hard about this and we think it is fair to justify it. That is arbitrary, of course, but in the end we came up with that. This also means that an association or foundation should be able to show whether the political party should be able to demand from that association or foundation how that donation is built up. Then I go back to the voter's home, who can see: okay, that party gets money from these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u79	When I went into national politics, it was my ambition to make things easier rather than more complicated. Surely this is an intermediate form that I think is: why should we allow it? Why can't you just give money to a political party as a private person? Why does it have to be through a foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u80	Look, I think you can also question it, as I have just said in my speech, whether it is desirable for private individuals to be able to donate very large sums of money. Also a private person can influence in that way, so I think you should ask yourself whether that is desirable. A foundation that aims to support itself a starting point, which has a certain ideal that it would like to see realized, that does not have to be bad in itself, provided that there is no appearance of influence, or that dependence on one person. As a political party, I feel strongly that you are dependent on a donation from a foundation made up of much more smaller donations. I don't think that's the problem either, because if you go back to the overviews that have been published and add up all the amounts that all parties receive, then you'll also get a certain amount. In my opinion, the key issue is: is there a dependence on one person or one company? Of that, I say clearly that you shouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u81	Mrs. Bromet, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u82	It's not clear to me why we have to do that through a foundation. When it comes to transparency, I have the feeling that Mr Ellian considers this very important, there is nothing more transparent than that person x giving a certain amount to a political party. Then we can see who that is. A foundation is a cloaking instrument that covers it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u83	So I'm trying to stop that cover-up. In the proposal I make, someone can still donate €800, without the name of the person becoming public. A foundation can donate a certain amount if it is made up of several small donations. But of these small donations, I say very clearly that they too should ultimately be traceable and transparent, and thus traceable to persons. I am sensitive to the argument you are putting forward, whether I am making it more difficult, but I have looked for a way that does justice to fundraising, with an extra transparent step on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u84	I want to say that we are really on the right track, that we are saying that there will be a maximum. The SP and the VVD have set the same maximum. It's about whether there should be a foundation or an association. What if a number of influential people donate a million dollars to that foundation or association and they pass it on to a political party, and that's getting known? Then what happens to Mr Ellian's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u85	What happens to my amendment, I do not know, because you also have a decisive voice in it. The truth is, of course, that my amendment is not going to prevent that situation in any case, either factually or legally. Let me make it quite clear here that the situation that Mrs Leijten is describing is not exactly the situation that I have in mind and had when making the amendments. In that case, millions are still being sprinkled by those who want to exert influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u86	That is why we have an exchange of views during a legal process and it is also nice to know in advance what the proposals are being submitted. If that is not the intention, then I think it is right that we should look together to see how, for example, we can put together his amendment and the amendment I tabled. My amendment was also co-signed by Mr Omtzigt. I forgot to tell you, but it's being modified. You say that it should remain possible to get a donation through an association, and that is not excluded in the SP amendment. That's only maximized on that barrel, because you don't want that influence to be greater in the end. That's what Mr. Ellian says. However, you also do not want to give a construction, via an association or a foundation, which you end up trying to close with this bill. If Mr Ellian says that it is not his intention to organise a flow of millions with his amendment, how does he feel about trying to put both amendments together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u87	In any case, in view of all the amendments which are different from each other, I think it makes sense to take a closer look at who is prepared to do exactly what. However, in order to avoid misunderstandings: if, for example, an association donated €160,000 to a party in my proposal, we have no objection to it, provided that it is clear where that €160,000 comes from. That's what I'm trying to tell you, because maybe it's good to use a metaphor, and I hope I'm saying it right. Much small is not bad, but the situation you outlined with three words, you call the rich, influential people, all of whom give a million, would fall into the undesirable category for me. It's just the search for how to set that fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u88	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u89	Maybe I need another one, Mr. Chairman. I'm just looking for where we have an agreement. Of course, no one here forbids giving €160,000 with all small donations. The VVD only inserts an association or foundation, without max. So that can also be three people who say: I give a million and I can arrange it through that foundation and try to buy Mr Ellian's party, or Mrs Leijten's party, favor and loyalty. That is undesirable in terms of the SP and I assume it is also undesirable in terms of the VVD. So does Mr. Ellian see that risk? He says he doesn't want to, but that is of course the route that is open with this. How would he want to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u90	That route, I think, doesn't have to be difficult to do about it. That's obvious. The bill doesn't make that route impossible either. In my opinion, the amendment I am putting forward is already a firm tightening-up. Quite frankly, I would hope that in the situation that Mrs Leijten is setting out, in which three people, I do not know exactly what is influential, but that is my naivety, one million people put into a foundation and donate it to a party, is not a party in this Chamber that accepts it. Anyway, maybe I'll be too naive. But if you ask me what is desirable, that is the situation I would like to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u91	Then there's another example. Someone gives a ton to a lot, for example Mr Ellian's party, the VVD, and that is registered. And then the association Comfortable bitterballs comes with Mark Rutte and sells Cozy bitterballs with Mark Rutte to that same person for €25,000 and that association then gives half a million to the VVD. Then it is clear that whoever donated a ton, who gave €25,000 for those bitterballs, but then that person still gives more to the VVD than another legal person can do through that association. Does Mr Ellian consider that appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u92	I hope I understand that one more person gives a lot here. That is what I repeat: we do not therefore think that this is desirable. Perhaps that is not sufficiently secured in the amendments that I have made, but what this is specifically about is that you do not want to be dependent on one person and therefore not large donations in our proposal is that above a ton of debt of one person. I have studied well in making the amendment, but this is what I came up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u93	I still see you standing, Mrs Leijten. Finally, I will go to Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u94	Finally, Mr President. Mr Ellian says it is possible. If you then make sure that there are sixteen foundations or associations that give to the same party, that person gives his tonne anyway and he gives to all those sixteen also a tonne or two tons, which is then paid through, then eventually someone can give millions to a party. I think that's exactly what you don't want. So I think it is very good that Mr Ellian is thinking about a maximation, but then he must also go "all the way' and not immediately create a new shortcut. Even though the latter doesn't seem the intention, it does happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u95	I usually take Mrs Leijten's words to heart, although sometimes not, but we can have that from each other in this house. I understand. I am also really trying to outline this tension between the foundations and associations, made up of many people, who donate something to a party, that is, gifts that must be transparent, and the situation that Mrs Leijten is setting out. Three times a million is, of course, a situation that we did not envisage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u96	I have a question at the same time. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Ellian on the amendments he has tabled. There's some good proposals in here. I have a question about the amendment tabled by Mr Ellian on the limit of €100,000 for natural donors and other donors, other than foundations and associations. In this he says that there is always a risk of conflict of interest in such large sums, and that this risk of conflict of interest must be avoided at all times. My question to Mr Ellian is: what makes a gift from an association or a foundation on the point of that appearance of conflict of interest so fundamentally different from a gift from a natural person or something other than a foundation or an association? There are also very large amounts of money and the appearance that exists. In line with his argument for the first amendment, he should therefore say: we are going to limit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u97	That is a very sharp question from Mr Van Baarle. In the case of a private company, in the case of a company, let's call it that, even for the viewers at home who donate a tonne, two tonnes, three tonnes, four tonnes, it is clear that at least a certain appearance will occur. Let's be careful here with each other. It's always hard to tell if it's true, but there's an appearance. In the case of natural persons there is that appearance, to be honest. If you reason out of the good of your heart, you can say that someone loves a party very much and donates a million dollars. Okay, you can. Anyway, I think everyone understands why there is a certain appearance there. What I just said: at such a foundation or association... I'm just looking for the good words. We have not seen fundraising in the American sense, not at all. We have had in mind: those people who want to unite together, who like it, and those amounts are not too large; I hope that my speech clearly shows that they are putting it into such a foundation or association, which then donates it to a party. In my other proposal, therefore, there must be transparency in what those people have donated. I don't see very well what appearances could be. Not all of those 30, 60 people have an influence on what a party does. That is why, in the end, we have come to the conclusion that appearances there are negligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u98	Looks like some very wealthy people... that's what it's all about. It's about membership fees at the clubs the VVD receives the money from. I call one of those 100 clubs, but also others. You have to count down large membership fees to be a member of it. So you could at least say that there is a sign of conflict of interest, that a club-rich people give something to a political party and that they can play an interest in it. That's the same line of argument that you would argue with great gifts from natural persons. I don't see what makes this so fundamentally different. In doing so, Mr Ellian does not even set a limit in his amendment. So there is also the risk that people who cannot give that money because there is a ban on gifts from natural persons will unite in a foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u99	It's actually good to have a 100-year-old club. It is also good to emphasise that I am speaking on behalf of the group. I don't have much to do with how these things exactly go. I have looked at the question of what I think is the desirable starting point for all political parties. I've been looking into that. But the problem now with a Club of 100 is that it is not clear at all whether you need to know more than I do who paid those membership fees. I've tried to create the following. Please allow such a 100-year-old club to indeed exceed the limit of €100,000. As long as it's clear what these people have brought in. Because then, of course, it is clear to the electorate. Then the voter can appeal to me. I take the fictional example that there are 25 people in a particular football club in the club, and that I am going to argue something in favour of that football club in the Chamber. Then it's obvious to the voter. Then the voter will know that something has happened and I can be dealt with accordingly. But, as a rule, we have in mind a club of well-intentioned people, who, of course, from a certain ideal - from the idea of certain ideals - unite and then make a donation with all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u100	Mr Van Baarle, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u101	One more question about Mr Ellian's amendment. To what extent does this make it clear what the contributions to such foundations and associations are? Mr Ellian's amendment refers to articles from the Financing Act, political parties, which need to make gifts transparent. Does this include sponsoring such meetings in kind? I had to read that in the media. Then we are talking about amounts like €16,250 for catering or a room rental of €2,000 that is forgiven to allow some wealthy people to listen to a speech by Mark Rutte. I do not read that in his amendment, but also that there are very large, substantial contributions that, however you turn or turn, benefit political parties, and in this case to the VVD. Should I understand your amendment in such a way that it includes it? That seems very desirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u102	With your permission, Mr President, I would like to take a close look at the Rule 21a, which I myself have proposed. The intention is that such gifts in kind, after all, the basis of the law, should also be valued at a certain amount. If that amount exceeds that limit, you have to report it. I would say that this also falls within the scope of the amendment, but I must honestly say that I quickly look at the proposed article and do not see it as 'in kind'. Luckily, we've got another week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u103	You do have another week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u104	Very briefly, then. As I understand it, Mr Ellian's amendment refers to articles that look at gifts and not to the article that looks at contributions in kind. It seems to me very useful to put that in, because that is a way to give such a foundation donations. If Mr Ellian were willing to adapt that to the amendment, he would make me very happy. Otherwise, I think I'm going to come up with a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u105	Given the complexity of the matter, I hope that Mr Van Baarle will forgive me if I do not promise to do so immediately, but I also take this very much to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u106	I try to understand Mr Ellian's two amendments. I would like to thank him for the maximum amount of one tonne in the donations and the exception that exists for an association or a legal person. He has therefore proposed the following construct in the amendment to item No. 24. A political party may take gifts up to a tonne. If she gets €150,000 from a company or an individual, she has to pay back €50,000 to that company or individual. If he doesn't want it back, it has to be returned to the Home Secretary, so it won't do you any good. Fine. There is one exception, which concerns associations or foundations. We know that these could be business clubs, but it can also be the association to promote liberal ideas in the Netherlands; I will just mention what. So that could be anything. In another amendment, the amendment to item No. 25... I would advise him to take these two amendments together. In it, he says: if it pays more money, then it must also give a list of who has invested more than €1,000, so that there is some transparency for the party. But if there is someone on that list who has given €50,000, should Mr Ellian say that they should be made public? If the Ivo Opstelten Foundation receives €50,000 from one of the VVD members and makes a donation to the VVD later that doesn't even have to be the whole amount.The Ivo Opstelten Foundation sends a note to the VVD treasurer: "Please note, this person has given €50,000. For the rest we have a lot of gifts of €200. Don't worry, treasurer." Is the gift of €50,000 supposed to be kept secret, or is it intended to be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u107	No, it's gonna go public.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u108	Where in the series of amendments is it ensured that it is brought under the working of the €4,500 limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u109	What I have tried to do, I say carefully, is this. That limit of €4,500 is reduced in my amendment to €1,000. We believe that the limit of €1,000 for the disclosure of gifts would be a better limit. I think Mr Van Baarle has proposed €2,500; we have €1,000. If someone donates €50,000 to a foundation and then transfers that €50,000 to the party, that is... That is exactly what I intended to do with that amendment: it becomes clear to the people that the €50,000 comes from the foundation of person A, B or C.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u110	Okay, but then I get it very well. I'd think that's a very good way to do it. I understand very well that a club that transfers more than a ton is not the same as someone who transfers a ton. I have two questions. The first question is actually quite simple. Does Mr Ellian want to find another way in which such a foundation can receive no more than a tonne? It sounds a bit stupid, but does Mr. Ellian also think that no one can give that foundation two tons, pour it over and then it comes back somewhere? I don't think it's supposed to leave that hole, but it looks like it's still in there. The second question is for the Minister. I'll direct it to the minister. If these amendments are adopted, is it true that the party must also make these gifts public? That is not entirely clear to me, but that may also be due to the legislative text. If it is, so if the gifts that came into the foundation are also covered by the disclosure, then I think we have something we would like to have with a lot of people. But I would like to know for sure and I would also like to know exactly how that happens. Now I'm really glad we got a week's suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u111	Mr. Ellian for a response. A question has also been asked to the Minister, but he could pass on to Mr Ellian, as is customary. But maybe he can respond to that himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u112	Then I hope that I will do so in the right way, but I would be happy to direct Mr Ommzigt's question through you to the Minister, Mr President. I always try to keep an eye on experienced colleagues, because you have to learn from them. I hope I understood Mr Omtzigt's question correctly. He said, "Pulse down." In addition, the despair struck. I wasn't sure I understood. Does he mean the situation in which one foundation transfers a large amount of money to another? Can I have one more clarification?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u113	Mr Omtzigt is undoubtedly prepared to explain this briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u114	There are two complications that can occur. A foundation or a foundation tends not to pour everything through immediately. Imagine having a business club just to keep it very domestic. That business club is raising some money. This is more normal for certain parties than for others. I see someone smiling who has less experience with that. Anyway, imagine there's a business club that says, "You make $5,000 a year." The business club also charges itself, because those people like to go out to dinner. A quarter of the donations go on internally, to eat out, get together, listen to a talk or whatever. The business club decides that they don't transfer the entire amount to the party every year, but that they just make a deposit every year. Every year, they'll be stuck in the assets of the business club. That's a very normal way of dumping: you don't dump everything at the end of the year. Then, of course, at that time, the question arises as to what amount you indicate as coming from that individual. Is that the $5,000? Is that $4,000 because $1,000 has been eaten? Is that $2,000 because only half the profits are transferred? I can imagine very nice discussions. I would like that to be understood in writing, perhaps, because it is quite good for the legal treatment to be clear. That was actually the question: what are you doing? The second question is: should the political party consolidate this? Suppose someone from one foundation gets something and from another foundation gets something and it gets above a certain amount. Should the party then add it up and report it? Don't you have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u115	That second question is a new one. First, let me ask you the first question. Makes me think. What should not be misunderstanding is that the amount of money the foundation donates to the party should be divided among various persons, cliff-and-ready and clear. I understand Mr Omtzig's question very well. There are amounts left behind by that foundation: should those amounts become public or not? I understand that question very well. I'm struggling with that. My feeling is not necessarily a sense of justice; I just call it "transparency"............................................................................................................................................................................................... Only, I do not know whether the law we are discussing today can create such an obligation, because that foundation is, of course, a little far from it. We are, of course, addressing the political parties. So I'm not sure about that. But perhaps the Minister can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u116	Then I'll wait and see what the Minister says about that. I would also like to refer to the VVD Group in order to ensure that these foundations and associations are regarded as a secondary institution of the political party. Because if you register them as a secondary institution, they simply fall under the same transparency regime as the youth organisation and the scientific institute. I think that would be a nicer solution to achieve what you want. Suppose you have foundations that are actually just meant to support your political party. They could still be there from the past. I know from the CDA's past that foundations of the three constituent parties continued to exist; that is not a bad thing at all. When you point them out as secondary institutions, you're done with the whole thing, aren't you? Then you will also be off the barrel, because a secondary institution can of course get more, but then they will be covered by the transparency regime. Would Mr Ellian consider that? I think we'll have a solution to settle what he wants here in an easy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u117	I also take this to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u118	Further to the discussion we just had, has Mr Ellian, with his amendment on foundations and associations, also considered the exact distinction between a donation and a contribution? Take the 100 Club, which knows the VVD well. It brings together wealthy people, people with a lot of money, because they are in favour of the VVD. They may not make a donation, but they do pay a fee to be a member of that club. Now contribution isn't a gift. There's something against a contribution, but there's nothing against a gift. I think that is the legal distinction. If a meeting is held by such a foundation or association and says "a fee has been paid"....................................................................................................................................................................................... Would it not be appropriate to tighten up Mr Ellian's amendment on this point too? Otherwise, I see a nice route for a lot of people to get around that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u119	The VVD does know clubs of 100. I have to tell you, I don't know exactly how they're organized. By the way, a foundation can use a form of contribution. An association can do that anyway. After all, they have members. But the starting point is indeed that if you are a club of... Let's take a fictional example. Otherwise, I'm gonna get a call tonight from angry people saying, "You were talking about us." Take a friend club of 75 people who all pay €3,000, €2,000 or €1,500 I have no idea how much membership. This also affects Mr Omtzigt's question. But what ultimately remains, which is eventually transferred to the political party, must be completely transparent, unless there was someone in between who said: I only give €500. That is, of course, below the limit of €1,000. Then all we have to do is figure out whether the party should register, because that is what you have an amendment on, right? But the answer is that it must be done as publicly as possible. I'm gonna take a look at this, too. I'm getting a lot of feedback on my amendment. I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for that. I think I need to go back to the drawing board; it's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u120	Mr Van Baarle nods in favour. There's a week left for that, too. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u121	I have a question similar to that I asked Mrs Leijten about inheritances. I wonder whether Mr Ellian has also thought about treating inheritances as a separate category. I do not see that in his amendment. Just now it came across that inheritances would come from wealthy families, but inheritances are often left by people who have no other interest than that they want to leave the earth or any other ideal objective better. There is therefore no other intention in terms of political influence. In addition, if you wanted to influence politics, you wouldn't wait until you almost died. Rich families of course do so much sooner. So the inheritance is really a separate category. I wonder if Mr Ellian sees it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u122	I don't know if I see it that way. I've been thinking about it. Pretty comprehensively, too. You can look at this in two ways. Without wanting to talk derogatoryly about those who are no longer among us, but someone said to me: someone who is no longer there can no longer have any influence. I said, "Yeah, you can reason like that." A legacy is something other than a bequest, by the way. I don't want to complicate things unnecessarily here, but for an inheritance, you have to be heir, and a bequest is that you receive a specific portion of someone who dies. I'd like to think about that. I would also like to express today's attitude that I am prepared to reflect on everything that colleagues bring in. All things considered, I think that bequests and inheritances are inescapable that there will always be a very serious appearance of influence. I know what you're saying. There are people who have certain ideals and only act out of them. But if you exclude it from a maximum limit, then we are going to talk about serious amounts of money, then there is again the appearance that one person may have had influence, even though of course they are no longer alive. I gotta tell you, I'm struggling with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u123	Can you finish your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u124	The clock pleases me that I have ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u125	Yes, but can you finish it in those ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u126	I would like to say... I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their very pleasant exchanges of views. In my view, that is what is at the heart of my contribution. I'd like to leave it at that. I am, of course, curious about the answer of the cabinet and the appreciation of things. I'll leave it at that for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u127	Yes, but there was Mrs Leijten before an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u128	I know everyone wants to eat, but still. We are also talking today about the possible follow-up of the Veling Committee. We've talked about that before in this room. That was before I spoke on this subject and certainly before Mr Ellian became a Member of Parliament. At that time the intention was actually expressed by a majority of the Chamber: we are just going to follow it up and we are just going to settle that. Doesn't Mr. Ellian agree with us if we take care of that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u129	I have the report in front of me; a very readable report, by the way. The Veling Committee has made many recommendations. Does Mrs Leijten now ask me to undertake to implement all the recommendations? I have, of course, incorporated some elements into my amendment and my contribution. I don't quite understand what Mrs Leijten is trying to go to right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u130	The funding of political parties, that's what this is about. They also receive funding and are therefore also subject to the same transparency...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u131	Local parties, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u132	Yeah, local parties. If I misspelled it, I'm sorry. I think it's good if we know where the VVD is when it comes to that. I have tabled an amendment. I just said it wasn't chiseled on the SP. That can be changed. However, with regard to the principle that they too will receive funding, but are therefore subject to the principles of transparency that we impose on national parties, we would like to have a clear picture of where the VVD stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u133	I am afraid I have to disappoint Mr Leijten of the SP somewhat. I can't offer her that precise clarity, but I can give her a glimpse into our thinking direction. The fact that local parties are somewhat behind national parties is rather strange. The idea that you should do something about that is something we can understand. Then, of course, the question is: how do you do that? It takes resources. That's gonna cost you money. This bill didn't settle that. That is why the first question of my contribution was: what about the Law on Political Parties? Because I can imagine you're making demands on local parties there. That is not what this bill is about either. So I have some hesitation in bringing local parties to the transparency obligation................................................................................................................................................................................................. I do hesitate, however, because I wonder whether the construction of the legislative proposal is suitable for that purpose. I also see the number of questions and proposals we have here. This is a matter of national parties. Let alone what it's like for the local domain. In order to be able to be somewhat clear: as far as we are concerned, we need to think about how to make the financial position of local parties equal at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u134	The honourable Member of the VVD has already said that we have been waiting a very long time for the Law on Political Parties. It's starting to get cult status.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u135	Mythical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u136	I can tell you that they have been waiting for that locally for a very long time. Of course, it's not just about resources. It's also about the principle. If you think you should have transparent who gives, that there is not too much given, that there is loyalty and that the voter determines the order of our democracy, then that should apply to local politics too. I hope the VVD will at least go along with that. I also really hope that the VVD will look at the amendment with those eyes. I have also called on the Minister to do so. If we wait for that Law on the political parties with that somewhat cult status, which has been announced again, it may take another three or four years and we are three or four more elections. It would be good if we took care of it now. I hope that Mr Ellian will be able to look at it that way, because it is not just about money, but also, above all, about the principle. Who's calling the shots here? As far as the SP is concerned, that's the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u137	When we talk about strengthening the position of the local parties, that is to say in financial terms, this goes hand in hand with the demands that we are allowed to impose on the establishment of local parties, and with the obligation of transparency. Otherwise, you'd be creating another crazy inequality. That goes hand in hand, as far as we're concerned. I've seen your amendment. I am still struggling somewhat with an assessment of the feasibility, even if it is not up to me. We've been thinking about this, too. Then we came to the example of a smaller municipality in the Netherlands, a local department. That is why you are suddenly laying down rather firm transparency obligations. That's what we're struggling with. In fact, I think that is what the national parties can logically expect. I am struggling, but this transparency obligation must eventually come into force widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u138	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u139	I am sorry that the VVD brings in implementing technical things. Local elected representatives generally receive a political group budget. They have to answer for that, too. It's all taken care of. The amendment is very much in line with that. Either you want to, or you don't want to. It is true as the VVD says: if you are going to co-finance them locally, then of course the SP for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is what we are for, because it is good for democracy. That actually gives you the good of two worlds. The SP believes that in this discussion we should not wait for the Law on political parties, because that can take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u140	A short response from Mr Ellian, and then there is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u141	Good. I'd like to, once again, really break a lance. You can ask a few questions from the political parties, as present here, who all have organizational structures behind them. That is why I have also tabled an amendment which is sharper than most of the amendments in this Chamber. It says that from €1,000, everything has to be public. I have also said that I am willing to think about "without delay, immediately, as soon as possible." That's where I'm taxing the administrative burden. But I asked the Minister for an assessment, an appreciation of it. I do want to watch out for the small departments, smaller local parties in smaller places, which depend on volunteers. That's different from the group budget you get from the city council. In many municipalities you will receive support in completing the accountability. However, I do think that we should have some regard for proportionality. But to answer your question, that transparency will have to apply at some point in time. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u142	I'm a little surprised at this point. I laughed because Mrs Leijten was the only one who managed to have a discussion with the father and the son at the same time, on Twitter and here. It's gonna be fun at your house tonight. I hear Mrs Leijten say that you can follow all that with that support. But she'll have to say that in the microphone!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u143	Ask your question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u144	Now I'm really out of my league. That was the plan. We impose administrative obligations on every sector in society. We impose care obligations in the form of minute registrations. I also mention apprenticeship follow-up systems in education. The average entrepreneur must keep track of each transaction, including that of €0,10 for VAT. It can't get in with me. Whether the border is €1,000 or €4,500, I can assure you that the average local political party or an empty piece of paper has three names on it in four years. You don't have to do that. The essence of the difference between what Mr Veling recommends, what the SP has in the amendment and what is now in the law, is that political parties also receive part of the subsidy. Then it goes not only to the national department, but also to the local departments. The VVD as the largest local party doesn't get any worse either. That's not the issue at all. They are then seen as independent parties. Isn't it logical that regionally bound parties should receive the same support? 30% of people vote locally in a local election. They do not get the same amount per seat and per member of the Committee, we all know that, but they do have an equal level of support and transparency, in case they are affected. Because decisions of hundreds of millions are also taken at provincial level. The city council of Amsterdam is even talking about billions. Then it may be interesting for a particular entrepreneur to buy influence somewhere. Surely there should be an equal form of transparency? We're not talking about the football club here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u145	No, I'm sure. I regret it if I haven't expressed myself carefully enough. I would believe that these transparency obligations should ultimately apply to what I call the local domain, to the municipal councils, to the parties participating there and to the provincial level. I am taking a stand, but Mr Omtzigt is, of course, right that, in the area of transparency, 'we' mean to impose rather firm obligations on others and that this is not so intense in comparison. I agree with you, but let me stress that the starting point is that this transparency must also apply there. By the way, my party is already taking steps in that direction. It should not be too much about what parties themselves do, but we want to set an example. The examples of influence and undermining in the local domain are even greater and sometimes more frightening. It is clear in that regard. I think that was one part of your question. The second part deals with the question: is it not crazy to regulate subsidies? I'm trying to express that we're considering that. I'm not necessarily negative about that. I must honestly say that we in the group really still have to discuss this. Of course, there is also the next point. It's all very faint and I had hoped not to have to say it, but: where do we pay for it? To put it technically, you are better at that than I am at that in the budget. I have this problem, but the point on the horizon must be: both this transparency obligation and a strengthening of the position of the local parties. Let me be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u146	Paying isn't so hard in itself. A proposal has been made. That's gonna cost a couple of millions. This goes through the Gemeentefonds and is removed from the national subsidy. Then the total subsidy for political parties remains the same. That is what Mr Veling is proposing. That doesn't make the VVD any better or worse, because it is also just a well-represented local party. The bill now before you only get money if you have a seat in the First or Second Chamber, but nothing for your Provincial State seats and local seats, while also the parties there have to do research, make policy plans and maintain local bonding. Mr Ellian is right about the downside of that, even under the same transparency obligation. The most alarming examples have been local examples of conflicts of interest. That is a very good word for what I saw; it looked more like corruption. So I think this is the time to make that decision. The opinion of the Veling Committee has been there for about three years now. So I hope to hear in the second period what the consideration might be to do or not to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u147	I'm not insensitive to this call, but I'm really making a reservation. It's no secret: we're going to discuss it in the group. I've got a week before the second term, so that doesn't come out awkwardly. I am aware of the proposal from the Veling Committee. That might be worth considering. I also await the appreciation of the cabinet. Otherwise, I don't think there's any light between what you and I are aiming for. I myself was the chairman of the local group. I almost had to give up my job; part of it, by the way. But I still lived in the big city. So my heart goes out to those who do very important work with very little resources and very little support. As far as I'm concerned, that's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u148	Thank you. You have come to the end of your speech. You've been standing here for a while now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u149	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u150	I suggest we suspend for dinner break. Mr Ellian, I would like to say that it is very nice that you thanked the staff of Bureau of Legislation so explicitly at the beginning of your speech. You did that on behalf of all of us. Thank you for that. A very fair remark. We're suspending the meeting until 7:30. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u151	I give the floor to Mrs Bromet, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, today we are discussing the amendment of the Financing Act to the Political Parties' report on the evaluation committee led by Mr Veling. The examination of the amending law is so long after the report of the Veling Committee, that even the members of that committee now have a strengthened view on this subject. More about that later. Mr. Chairman. In our democratic rule of law, democratic decision-making by Parliament and by local representatives is of the utmost importance. We organised this in our country through regular elections, where candidates on behalf of political parties are on a electoral list. In these elections, every citizen of our country who is entitled to vote has one vote. In doing so, we express the same influence on decision-making among the electorate. But actually, I have to say, should have. Because in practice, unfortunately, it is not. In practice, empowered voters, for example, who have become members of a political party, have a little more influence because they decide who is on the list and what the electoral programme looks like. In the end, however, any electorate may become a member of a political party or even a political party of its own. I would recommend that everyone in the Netherlands join a political party. Mr. Chairman. Another, much more worrying form of inequality in influence on policy we are discussing today, and that concerns financial influence. Let me put it first: political parties need financial resources to run campaigns, to keep their organisation running and to support their scientific office and their youth organisation. For these purposes, political parties receive subsidies from the Ministry of the Interior, receive contributions from their members and receive gifts. All very logical, but still in the last money flow, the donations, GroenLinks is the biggest concern. Because the Dutch legislation to regulate donations to political parties has gone anything but with time. The Netherlands is well behind other Western democracies internationally. According to some experts, the Netherlands is even "the Wild West of party funding." That is what other speakers have said as they were very worrying. Transparency International even talks about a threat to national security. Because we in the Netherlands are naive and do not have enough rules to prevent political parties from being overly influenced by gifts, we risk damaging our own democracy. The draft law before us is a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done for GroenLinks. This is necessary not only to create a level playing field for political parties, but also to restore the fragile confidence of citizens in politics. Because our citizens also see that large companies have more influence on policy than they do. That's not good. Democracy belongs to the inhabitants of the Netherlands, and not to the ones who have the most money. With the amendment of the Finance Act political parties, we can help restore confidence in politics. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention the most important points for my group on which we would like to take greater steps. First of all, the level of the gifts. We have discussed this before in the debate. At the moment there is no maximum for giving gifts. The proposal before us does not do anything about it either. We're not okay with that. If political parties receive high donations from individuals, companies or foundations, it can make sure that something is expected to be done in return, either consciously or unconsciously. Although it is often impossible to prove that a return is actually required, it is really undesirable for political parties to receive large sums of money. According to GroenLinks, appearances alone must be prevented. In addition, it is very doubtful whether it is fair for the functioning of democracy that one party should receive much more money than the other. Fortunately, there are a lot of parties here today who argue that there should be a maximum. The chairman of the evaluation committee, Mr Veling, also said last year that he had become convinced that it was a good idea to set a legal ceiling. We have therefore tabled an amendment together with the PvdA to set this ceiling at €25,000 per person per calendar year. There are other amendments with other amounts. Those amounts are more or less arbitrary. But the most important thing for us is that there will be an amount. I hope that we can put all these amendments together and that together we can reach a maximum. If that is €25,000, that is a good amount for GroenLinks. But if other parties say "no, we prefer that to €50,000 or €100,000," then we can talk about it. I think it could be a very nice outcome of this debate if we did this with each other. Another concern for GroenLinks is transparency, in particular the transparency of large donations made through companies and foundations. I just had some questions about that with the VVD. First of all, let me say that I think it is positive that this legislative proposal should speed up the publication of donations. That's a nice step. But more transparency is needed. Because what we've seen over the past few years is this. Large sums of money, not to mention gifts in kind, for example through campaigns or by making rooms available, dinners for business or advertising time, flowed through legal entities to political parties. My group believes that this is not transparent. Because if foundation X or Y transfers a few tons to a political party, we don't know exactly who is behind it and what the interests of those people are to transfer to a political party via so much money. After that, the question is whether we believe that legal persons should have influence in politics. The people of our country have the right to vote. They determine in democracy which direction the policy should go: not the big companies or shady foundations whose aims and interests are not clear. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Can she explain why it makes sense for companies or foundations to donate money to political parties? How does she think we can ensure that there will be no unwanted influence? Together with Mr Leijten and Mr Arib, we have tabled an amendment to ensure that only natural parties and natural persons are allowed to give gifts to political parties in the future. I liked the debate that just took place with the VVD on his amendment to illustrate why everyone should support our amendment, because it's just about something very simple: you want to give money to a political party and you just do that as a person directly to that political party. Then you don't have to create all kinds of intricacies, as is actually the case with the VVD. Mr President, a third point of concern...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u153	An interruption by Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u154	Perhaps I have made too complicated proposals. I just noticed that DENK blames me for not knowing my own proposals. That's okay: I'm trying to make a positive contribution. But just to get the edge on it: I do not see why the gift by a natural person of a certain amount is not dubious. I don't understand. Why would a natural person, a private person, a private person or how you want to call it not have the appearance of influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u155	Of course giving money is always a sign that you want something from that party, or that you think an ideology of that party is very important, or a direction the party chooses. But then you can just say in the proposal as we do: oh, that's person X and that apparently wants to support the goals of party Y. If it goes through a foundation, it's much less transparent. We are concerned about transparency. We are concerned with all those questions that have just been asked to Mr Ellian about how it is going to be if a party receives €50,000 in one year and then makes a donation of €20,000. What about contributions to donations? All that kind of dilemmas don't play if you keep it very simple. Namely: a person, a voter in the Netherlands, gives money to a political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u156	Mr. Ellian, for a sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u157	Okay, that's a clear answer in itself. But that still doesn't change the fact that those, those names, are also voters? So I can't quite follow the reasoning that a natural person who makes a large donation may not also be able to influence or wish to exercise, or perhaps not. Moreover, I think it is a good thing that colleagues have not gone too far on the current events of the past year. But that's also your whole point, isn't it, that you want to counter that appearance? I do not see why that is different from that perhaps very complicated construction that I have proposed with the best intentions. There's not much difference between them, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u158	When I was listening to the debate, I also thought: what would be the most transparent and honest way to regulate donations to political parties? I believe that this would be a ban on gifts, so that parties could not receive gifts at all. I do not think there is any support for that in the Chamber right now, but that would make it very simple. Then political parties get subsidies and contributions and the whole gift story is gone. That is actually the fairest form of democracy. In fact, the poor thing is that we depend on our campaigns to carry out them, and so we encourage each other in such a campaign. There's more and more money coming in. If one has more money, the other needs more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u159	I think that here, with all due respect, the socialist monkey is getting a little out of hand. In fact, GroenLinks would prefer to ban donations. I will deal with this later in my contribution, but political parties are also a reflection of social feelings. They're not just part of the state apparatus, are they? They would be if, apart from those miserable contributions they still make with declining memberships, I'm telling you, they'd be heavily dependent on government subsidies. Then you'll take away the whole social significance of those political parties, won't you? Is that the intention of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u160	Hey, hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u161	Mr Bosma is being asked to abstain from commenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u162	Thank you, because I should have said that: we only speak through the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u163	Every now and then I'm in front of you, too; that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u164	Mr Bishop is always very good at putting words in my mouth and doing all kinds of explanations about what I would actually think. What I find, I tell you here and what I propose, I formulate in amendments. It does not say that we are in favour of a ban on gifts. I did say in the debate with Mr Ellian that it is a very transparent and honest way. For ideologies, of course, we are political parties. That is why we have memberships and we can commit people to us. But membership is something other than giving a gift. That's how I look at it. Mr Bishop also made use of the grants provided by the Ministry of the Interior. I do not know what his wording was or what was put on my mind, but if he does, he should also be principled and say: then we will no longer receive these state subsidies, because we, as SGP, will take care of our own club.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u165	Mrs Bromet has managed very well to pin things on me that I have not said. I will try to make that clear later in my speech. I am not trying to pin things on Mrs Bromet or put words in her mouth that she does not say, but I am trying to think through the consequences of her ruling. That seems to me to be a good administrative starting point. You don't just have to yell at something, you have to see what's going on. That is why my question in all honesty is common: if it were ideally organised, would it mean that gifts would be prohibited, that the parties would be dependent on government subsidies and that there would be a line in this way through a social interlinkage, connection and anchoring of those parties in society? Is that what GroenLinks ideally envisages? That's just my question. I'm not putting anything in your mouth. I'm just asking you to think about the consequences and then choose a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u166	GroenLinks always thinks very carefully about the consequences. It is not for nothing that I just made the appeal to all the Dutch to become a member of a political party in my own contribution. We believe that through political parties you can influence politics here. I very much like today's debate, because it concerns the way in which we want to strengthen democracy in the Netherlands. We do so without any left-wing opposition or coalition opposition. It is an exchange of ideas on how to strengthen democracy. It is the case that gifts create inequality when it comes to campaign resources that parties have, for example. Numbers of Members do so, but members also reflect the adherents of a party. Anyone can become a member of a political party. You don't have to be very rich for that. Furthermore, one party is more likely to make a big donation than another. That can create an uneven playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u167	Mr Bishop, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u168	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I wholeheartedly agree with the appeal to all Dutch to join a political party, but that is, of course, also a wishful dream. We see that the number of political parties has fallen sharply over the past decades, from 10% to 2.5%. That's a fact. We can say: put those gifts away and let everyone join... But we can't force that. Surely there is nothing wrong with companies and organisations making choices to support the parties they feel related to? That's a social thing, isn't it? There's no objection to that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u169	For GroenLinks, it is not a social fact that membership numbers are decreasing. GroenLinks' membership numbers have increased in recent years. We do everything we can to activate as many people as possible and to join our party, because we think they can feed us and also because they can gain influence. I don't like saying something's been given. I'm in politics to change things. And, yes, that includes this debate. A third concern for GroenLinks is the influence from abroad. That is what the various colleagues have been talking about. There is little reason, I think, for our democracy to be vulnerable to influence from countries that have interests in directing our decision-making. On this point, too, we can see that the cabinet is moving in the right direction with this proposal, but once again, it is the question of whether it is sufficient. Are we really going to keep undesired influence out of the door with this legislative amendment, I ask the Minister? I would also like to hear from the Minister whether we have an idea of how gifts from abroad have been tried to influence political parties in recent years. Finally, the question of whether political parties, according to the Minister, are sufficiently aware of how they can perceive unwanted influence from abroad. In the case of donations and donations, we usually think of amounts of money being transferred. Of course, there is also support in kind. These are gifts that are less transparent, because it is not always clear what the exact value of a gift in kind is. I would also like to draw attention to advertising time on TV or advertising space. It is very difficult to get the finger on this, because how do we know exactly how and when a person or company makes advertising space available on social media to a political party and whether this party pays the real price or whether this is a gift in whole or in part? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Do we have enough information on whether gifts in kind are properly administered and monitored? What more could possibly be done to better regulate this? Then the local parties. These parties cannot now claim public funding. At the same time, regardless of whether this is fair, it is also a potential risk. Those parties who do not receive a subsidy but have to collect all the funds themselves may be more likely to be affected by donations. The bill doesn't make any provision for this right now. The Veling Committee advised that local parties should also be eligible for funding, as this would strengthen and make decentralised democracy more transparent. The government chooses not to take that advice now, but to arrange it later through the Law on Political Parties. Why did the government make this choice, and why does the government not consider it logical to include the grant and the rules for gifts in this bill, also in view of the risk of undermining local democracy? Finally, Mr President, one final point of concern. This concerns the number of members. Political parties receive a subsidy which is partly based on the number of members. When one party has much more membership growth than the other party, it also affects other political parties, because the total amount remains the same. Sometimes we see that a political party gets a lot of members every year and that there are doubts about the number of eligible members; whether they are properly administered. Does the Minister recognise these concerns and shares the view that we need to be sure that the number of members of political parties is right and that the numbers passed on are so. Can it indicate how it is ensured that grants are based on the correct numbers of eligible members? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. Our democracy is vulnerable to unwanted influence. Let us, as Chambers and Cabinets, ensure that we do not remain naive and that we can continue to ensure that every vote has an equal impact on policy and on legislation. I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u170	Thank you. I call Mr Eerdmans on behalf of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u171	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about the amendment of the Financing Act, in which, pending the forthcoming Political Parties Act, or the mystery Act, as Mrs Leijten has mentioned, I believe, some of the recommendations of the Veling Committee will also be taken on board. An important part of this relates to donations to parties and ancillary institutions. Suggested: JA21 has nothing against donations. It is in many ways a good sign when parties do not only live by the grace of subsidy. However, one point of departure is crucial: donations are used to support a political message and not to buy a political message. In that context, two things are important to us. Firstly, that is transparency. Voters have a right to see how parties are financed, so that they can conclude for themselves whether their party is pure. So we can support the many recommendations of the Veling Committee that are being implemented to this end. At the same time, however sad, it is much more difficult for supporters of some parties to express their sympathy than for supporters of other parties. That is why we say: maintaining the disclosure limit of €4,500 for domestic donations is good. Two: a form of maximation. If someone donates a million euros, it is seen by many people as buying a party, and that is not very illogical. We read in Trouw this week that Mr Veling disagrees with the 2018 Veling Committee in 2022. He said that donations didn't need to be maximized. Following that advice, the cabinet did not choose to include a form of maximisation in this legislative amendment. My question to the Minister is: does she now believe that there should be talk of maximizing donations and, if not, why not? The reason why such a measure was not included in the legislative amendment is that the committee did not see any reason to do so at the time. But that is different now. What is her view on this, also ahead of the Wpp? The form in which a possible maximing should be cast is for discussion. That was clear today, too. Do you choose to maximize donations or to maximize the total amount that a party can receive in donations? The second could be detrimental to start-ups, new parties that do not yet receive a subsidy and are therefore put at a disadvantage. That is not our preference. Then ban gifts from outside the EU. They are therefore banned, whereas gifts from within the EU remain permitted. That's a little remarkable, isn't it? Why should donations from, for example, corrupt Malta, to give an example, not be a problem, and donations from the US would be, as if EU membership were the benchmark for whether or not something is pure coffee? The suggestion made by the Christian Union during the written consultation, namely only banning gifts from non-free countries, would make much more sense, I think. Why doesn't the Cabinet see anything in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u172	There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u173	That last point is now unclear to me. In my opinion, whether or not gifts from abroad should be the dividing line, because who decides what an unfree country is? I think the definitions differ from that. But I actually wanted to ask what JA21 thinks is a good maximum gift, as we have just had some debate about it. What would you like to join? What proposal would you make?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u174	Less than a million, much less than a million. I do not have very clear what amount that should be, whether that is a tonne, two tonnes or three tonnes. We didn't get it right now, so there's got to be a ceiling on that. You have the proposal of a tonne, I believe. I will also discuss it in my group. It also has to do with all of our MPs, so I'd like to discuss that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u175	No, of course, I understand that, but I think it would be very good if we could end this debate next week with a maximum. Mrs Bromet just said the same thing. Then we have to look at the maximum; that may be the subject of debate. However, I believe that a maximum is a wish expressed so far by all the participants in the debate. It would, of course, be a good thing if this were to happen, because that would increase confidence in politics and in the ability of political parties to make themselves subject to rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u176	I can totally agree with that. There is an important difference between the maximum total and the maximum per donor. I did prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u177	I don't think anyone said "totally," but by gift, by donor. In addition, we have said who can give and what maximum is attached to it. I do not think that is 'total', because I do not think that anyone has proposed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u178	Yes. I will continue my speech. The legislative proposal further provides for the strengthening of the relationship between grant and electoral support. In our view, it is right that the number of seats that a party has obtained in the last elections should remain leading throughout the term of office of the Chamber. After all, the Wfpp is not about group support but about party financing. Finally, attention should be paid to local parties. They are still not covered by this law, and that is a major objection to us. It should be noted that, at local level, we as national parties are becoming less and less represented. That is because there is a largest party at local level and that is the local party. According to the latest I&D polls, local parties are expected to score almost 32% this time. Thus, according to the same poll, they would be more than two and a half times the size of the largest party here, the VVD. In short, support for local parties is overwhelming and increasing. A cabinet that believes that there should be a strong relationship between the level of the subsidy and the support of the electorate's parties cannot therefore ignore the local party. But that's what's gonna happen. There are a lot of recommendations from the Veling committee that are being taken on board, but the most logical one, you can almost say, is being taken in the wind: the equal treatment of local parties and decentralised national parties with regard to the subsidy. So we're fighting to get that level playing field. I think it's very simple: whether all subsidies or none. But it's not fair now. I also think that the Veling Committee has made that very clear. We therefore support Mrs Leijten's amendment on this subject. We have also tabled a motion with Mrs van der Plas of the BBB on this point in order to align this with the new Law on Political Parties, but that will take a long time. So we love that it can be incorporated into this law in this way. Mr President, this was our deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u179	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosma, who has been warming up for a while, but now it is really his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u180	Yes, Mr President, I kind of miss the old walkways in this building, because there you could really enjoy a kind of four-day walk. You're limited here, aren't you? All right, we're gonna do something about that. I've got 26 minutes. I'm just the warm-up act for Mrs. Arib, you know. She asked if someone wanted to warm up the room, and I took it on myself. My conclusion is immediately in the first sentence: our democracy is not working. We live in a dictatorship for highly educated people. Those highly educated are as left-handed as hell. There's empirical research. Politicologists looked at almost 300 policy changes, so plans, things to do, and came to the following conclusion. Who always get what they want in the Netherlands? Those are the highly educated. Sometimes that includes the low-educated, but only if they agree with those highly educated. This has enormous consequences for the Netherlands. I quote. "This conclusion has major consequences. If training groups were represented equally, the Netherlands would look very different: social services would be expanded, the differences between rich and poor would be smaller, immigration would be more limited, crime would be punished more severely and European integration would be reduced." The explanation for this is quite simple: the institutions of the Netherlands are in the hands of the left. By institutions, I mean the media, the universities, the justice system, the high civil service, but also the museums, the art world, the trade unions, the churches, etc. Climate-socialism, Europhilia, the craving for mass immigration and a disgust of the underclass that they ultimately despise deeply. Mr. Chairman. The idea of critically looking at party funding stems from the idea that political struggle must be fair. Of course, I totally agree with that. But politics is not just what parties do. Let us therefore immediately stop all the flows of subsidies towards all those left-wing institutions. So stop the money to Milieudefensie, an organization that gets 60% of its revenue from the State. Environmental defense is therefore a semi-public body. It's at the table at the climate table, but the government's just talking to itself. 98% of COC's revenue is subsidy. It has hardly any members. The club does its best to deny as much as possible how much immigrants, immigrants, are overrepresented in the violence against gays. Stop funding NPO66. Stop financing the art world. Take museums if they're trying to make fun of our national heroes. Hands off Michiel de Ruyter and Willem van Oranje. And forbid education, for example, teaches the critical race theory. That's how we get to a truly honest society. Mr. Chairman. The construction of the members' party plays a small but not insignificant role in our crippled democracy. How did it happen? And above all: should this experiment be continued? Once, we MPs represented a district. We were the honourable Members of Almere at the time, but not Almere at the time. That was a bad example. I should have prepared this, Drachten or Maastricht. Later, these people gathered here in The Hague. They were going to form a electoral association and those electoral associations became parties. Then something really crazy happened. Because you could also join those parties. Then you gave them money and then you got on the membership list. That point is important, because we had parliamentary democracy first and then the Members' Party. Members' parties are ultimately at odds with the Constitution, namely the article that states that we Members of Parliament should function without burden. Back in the day there was also a backspoke voice.I actually liked this Dutch version but that unfortunately went out. It is sometimes downright embarrassing what I see here in the plenary. For example, if you ask a spokesperson just before the elections "what is your position?', Sometimes it happens that he says: I do not know, because the election programme is not yet ready. That MP's waiting at the door. The PTT is reporting for duty. The electoral programme is coming in and so the Member of Parliament's opinion arrives. And that opinion is thus determined by party bobos from outside the Lower House. Both trouble and backspoke! Or MPs who have to express a position that they openly disagree with. There has then been some party committee that has decided something. I remember the debate on abolishing the referendum. Both Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA and Mrs Özütok of GroenLinks, two former colleagues whom I all miss, advocated the abolition of the referendum in that debate. At the same time, they admitted that they did not want to abolish the referendum at all. But their party had decided so. They openly admitted it, of course with the sneer "yes, that's party democracy; you don't have that at the PVV, huh, hahaha." An insider of D66 told me that the turn of D66 to be suddenly against the referendum was the result of some party committee which had adopted this new position by a narrow margin. So that had to be defended in the Lower House. And we now see in the bloody Gündoğan affair how the influence of the members' party has gotten completely out of hand. Sunday evening a press release from the Volt party suddenly appeared, mind the party and not the group. "The party has decided," we read. And the party has decided to suspend a member of parliament. A madman... oh, sorry, chairman, I didn't mean it personally, ahum. Let's cut that out! You think Vera's watching? Let me say: a bizarre development. A club of members of Volt is in practice the stone-rich Dreesmann family, known from Vroom & Dreesmann, and the also wealthy banking family Van Lanschot decided to suspend a member of parliament. This is contrary to the most fundamental principles of state law. No one, but no one, can suspend a MP, let alone a party. But the LPF soap at Volt goes much further. The party even imposed a general ban on this Member of Parliament. Mrs Gündoğan should refrain from debates and public performances. She must not be in contact with employees within the party and representatives of the media. Mr. Chairman. Have we ever experienced such an impairment of the dignity of the House of Representatives? Volt violates all the rules of parliamentary democracy and wipes off her fat Soros buttocks with the Constitution. Mind you, this is the party of the elite of good taste. Moral, superior Netherlands! The people who know it all so well, who at the memorial of the February strike with the raised finger push my party into the corner of the Nazis. I mean Geert Mak, but also Arend Jan Boekenestijn, Arjen Lubach et cetera. At the same time, it is scandalous and logical. Of course, because those crazy members' parties have been sitting on the seat of representative democracy ever since 1880. This is the closing apotheosis: the batch bumps a MP and sticks her a Band-Aid to the mouth. My group hopes to see Mrs Güntoğan again. We love being called by her for scum, racist, gross racist, fascist or populist and we miss her sweet-vouched voice. Mr. Chairman. Democracy is meant to make the voice of the people heard. That's the theory. The practice is different. A predecessor of this minister, Dr. Ronald Plasterk, writes nice columns in De Telegraaf. I'm sure the left-wing colleagues will eat them all up too. Mr Plasterk, who is therefore a member of the PvdA, wants to have a kind of Danish PvdA, which is much more right-wing; actually a kind of half PVV in the area of immigration, nitrogen, nuclear energy, woke et cetera. Plasterk writes that this will not work, because the party frameworks are rusted. They're on the old left line and there's no movement in it. A similar observation is made in the autobiography of Onno Ruding, former Minister of Finance; we all know him. He wants a much right-wing CDA. He doesn't, he writes in his autobiography, because of those fixed frames. So the structure of the party prevents the voice of the people from ringing in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u181	We are interrupting you for a moment because of an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u182	I hear people sniffing. I have to do that myself, but in fact I find this a mockery for our Parliament. Behind the pulpit, all the parties are going to give it up, because each party can be wiped out, and itself morally superior and elevated above all those party members, while we know that there is no transparency at the PVV about party funding, today's topic. I would like to ask Mr Bosma the following. If you want to be so morally exalted, with humour absolutely; everyone needs to be able to sneak around a little bit other parties, shouldn't you also be able to comply with the rules? Wouldn't that really be pure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u183	I'm not giving a pan to all kinds of parties here. I make one point clear, namely that the Members' parties are at odds with parliamentary democracy and with the Constitution. I just build that with examples, so people don't get wiped out at all. I'm just giving examples. Then Mrs Leijten says: no transparency whatsoever. Well, Mrs Leijten can simply look at the documents of the supervisory committee, which simply shows that we perfectly meet all the conditions. We're called by name and by name. So we are just 100% transparent. So I don't know where Mrs Leijten gets this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u184	When it comes to the formation of a position, Mr Bosma makes a caricature of parties. He also gives true examples; I was at that debate on abolishing the referendum. The SP is also a member party, so that can also occur there. I am not going to see the PTT coming through, because it has not been the PTT for a very long time. But the point of transparency in the PVV Group? No. That there is transparency about how positions are reached? No. The PVV doesn't want to be addressed there either. I'm fine with that, but don't be morally superior to others. Because no matter how funny you wrap it up, that also makes a caricature of our democracy. If the PVV thinks that you should abolish the members' parties, then submit an amendment. Do your job! Make that proposal!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u185	Mrs Leijten repeats 'no transparency'. That's just not true. We were supposed to have a different debate today. These documents contain, for example, the documents of that committee. That committee, which supervises party funding, has just visited all parties and we are as transparent as any other party. It just says 100%. How do opinions come about? Well, we do that ourselves in the group. That's just where they come into being. Every Tuesday at 11 a.m. our positions are established. It's not that hard, is it? I really don't understand the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u186	You know, it can be very funny about it in a jolly way. But the times I have asked the PVV spokesmen if they can tell whether they are for or against a proposal and they said 'we have no idea', while they were the spokesperson, I cannot count on two hands. I find that very sad, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u187	That's a ridiculous story. What do you mean a spokesperson wouldn't know his own views? There are a lot of crazy people in politics in The Hague, but I've never heard that spokesmen don't know their own views. Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u188	Mrs Leijten, for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u189	Sometimes you want to know if a proposal is gonna make it or not. Is the PVV going to vote for a proposal or not? Then that's what you're asking. I do that all the time. "What are you doing at the voting lists proposing this or that?" The times I get back from a spokesperson that he has no idea how the PVV is going to vote, I cannot count on two hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u190	Sometimes we think about something. There are a number of proposals within the framework of left-wing cooperation, for example, to set a cap or ceiling at the level of donations. It's called a lot of things. Do not ask me to mention an amount, because I do not know that as a spokesperson at the moment. Sometimes people think about business. But Mrs Leijten's point, about no transparency, is simply total monkey. Mr. Chairman. A long time ago, state law professor Jan Vis, also known as Senator of D66, referred to political parties as "old elephants who are struggling to find a last place to die." According to the late Pim Fortuyn, God rest his soul, the political party has become "a selection machine and framework organisation for the delivery of elected representatives of political and administrative offices." Policologist Filip of Prague, I've had lessons from him, and he calls parties an appendage to the state apparatus. C. de Vries, a D66 scientist, said we're dying. F. Becker, PvdA scientist, describes parties as brain death. Add to that the ideological mergers that parties have undergone. From the VVD to GroenLinks, they all actually share the same opinion on crucial issues such as climate socialism, the EU and the diversity noise. All these clubs in America would all fall within the left wing of a democratic party. Their differences are no longer perceptible to the naked eye. Why do they still exist? Well, because of the grant. The Minister bases himself on the report of the Veling Committee. It calls political parties "the primary intermediary between population and politics." The chairman, Mr Kars Veling, was previously the leader of such a party, namely the Christian Union. He has given it a lot of thought and has come to the conclusion that members' parties are really indispensable. Well, surprisingly. That is what the Jetten motion is getting over. Then there's 9 million more going to those old elephants. Their lives are being extended; they are kept alive artificially. But what's the big deal? Minister Kaag is Minister of Finance. He throws money everywhere, so why not here? The fact that Henk and Ingrid can't afford the groceries is a lot less interesting. The question is: if all these member parties are so proud of their member democracy, why do they all do their best to reduce their members' control? That's been going on for decades. Bart Tromp, who used to write nice pieces in Het Parool on Wednesdays, was allowed to complain for years about how Felix Rottenberg kept the participation of the members to a minimum. Tromp found that Rottenberg transformed the PvdA into "the temporary agency for MPs and an advertising agency for the Kok list." The members' parties are so democratic that, for example, members can find out from the newspaper who is the new leader of the political group. Then there is an applause machine in the form of a meeting as a congress. Actually, there's no more member involved. My group leader would like to tell you how, as a starting member of the VVD Chamber, he made a round along the so-called party barons. It was advisable for the further development of the political career to polish some shoes there. He was happy to do that. These party barons were the viceroys of the VVD. They controlled and controlled the famous Chambers. But Henry Emperor set it on fire. Today the VVD has a VVD festival. Then you can take a picture with Sophie Hermans.Nice. and you can network nicely. I watched a Saturday morning with great pleasure on television, a meeting of GroenLinks. It was something very fundamental: a close cooperation with the Labour Party, perhaps a merger. The chairman appeared on stage to explain that it was a GroenLinks conversation. The party councils were abolished, so we learned. We saw Mr. Klaver on stage. In a career around him were the people who were allowed to talk. The Jessiah functioned as a kind of presenter and in turn gave people the floor. Funny, everyone who sat there agreed with him. And everyone who spoke agreed with him. The people were clearly all pre-programmed. There was no vote either. This is what we call the famous'member democracy'. So let's stop funding those member parties. We don't need another penny for those dying elephants. If citizens unite, they can do it themselves. And absolutely no to the exorbitant money bounce, the subsidies mite, which we are now going to organise again. Mr. Chairman. What parties need in practice, above all, is protection. Recently there was an attack of uniformed Antifa harness in black leather jackets, black trousers and black hoodies in the middle of Amsterdam, where GroenLinks rules, the city of Femke Halsema. The police escorted this left-wing scum right to the party office of Forum for Democracy. A whole detour was made, a big walk. On the spot, paint bombs could be thrown to the party office. The police stood there and watched it. Afterwards the procession happily continued under police supervision. This is how they deal with people who think differently in Amsterdam. What does the Minister think of that? A political party is simply attacked under police supervision. Mr. Chairman. This law, let's be clear, is intended to attack the PVV, for years the biggest challenger of the left-liberal consensus. In the past, my party has received a little support from the United States. You know, that country that sacrificed so much for our liberation. With Margraten there are a lot of boys who made the highest sacrifice for that. It's our main military ally. When there are elections, everyone in the Netherlands becomes an American know-it-all. That's how we're intertwined with this country. No more money from this country. Money may come from corrupt countries such as Malta or Romania. My question to the Minister is: explain. For those parties who want to hang on to the subsidy infusion, there must of course be strong, strict rules. It's bizarre that D66 receives just as much as 1 million euros. It was the game changer of the election. The results were just bought. This was reinforced by the dominance of D66 on NPO66. Every evening Mrs Kaag is on the grieving tube and then the North Korean Kaagdocumentary: yes, our democracy is going well! That million came from an Internet billionaire who got rich thanks to Facebook. The animal party also shared in the Postcodekanjer. Another billionaire is a great donor of D66 Amsterdam. He then acquired a crucial real estate position on the Zuidas in Amsterdam for a reasonable price, where possible the most expensive place in Amsterdam. After his donation, the D66 alderman suddenly saw the importance of this: cash register, bingo, D66. And we see the CDA's business club, where the millions are flying around your ears. Apparently, people still want to put money in the splinter party. On March 10, 2021, we read in De Telegraaf: "DENK advertises against enemies of Islam on a Turkish website." We also see how Soros has bought into Dutch politics and now has his own party, Volt. So I'd say yes, take the big money. Those who receive subsidies may be restricted. Those who do not accept taxpayers' money must be given as much freedom as possible. No money from unfree countries, of course. And yes, put a cap on it. And yes, leave it up to what's the $4.500 but free. Mr. Chairman. In the year 2021, the JOVD, the youth department of the VVD, wrote the following; this is my last, final paragraph. I quote: "Geert Wilders proves that he does not need a classic party and government subsidies to get it far. In addition, there are other ways to let individuals move to a seat in our parliament, the Provincial States or the city council. If the gap between the citizen and politics can be closed somewhere, it is in the wallet. A citizen does not donate unless he feels involved and related to the politics and the political party in question. A political party likes to run a little faster if the survival of the party depends on it." That was the reason for this youth club of the VVD to say: no more subsidies to political parties. I couldn't agree more. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u191	Just a minute. There is an interruption for you from Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u192	Mr Bosma just said on behalf of the PVV that the PVV is so incredibly transparent about the funding of the political party and the group. I would like to ask Mr Bosma how this is consistent with the fact that nowhere was transparent, it was nowhere clear that some one and a half tons of money was donated by Robert Shillman to a foundation associated with Mr Wilders, set up by Mr Wilders, to finance Mr Wilders' legal costs. Why wasn't that just made public at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u193	Well, that's not party funding. That had to do with the two repulsive trials against my group leader. Political processes set up in consultation with the Ministry of Justice, Mr Opstelten among others. Heaven be praised that there were Americans who wanted to contribute to the legal assistance of my group leader. So it's not party funding, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u194	No, that's right, that's not party funding according to the definition of this law, but it's something that MPs, as it was a foundation associated with Mr. Wilders, should have given up in the gift register. Mr Wilders did not do that. So I do not think there is any transparency at the PVV in this case. I was just asking Mr Bosma in the interrupting debate if he is prepared to answer. He doesn't deny there's going to be money from Robert Shillman. Robert Shillman, who also finances the Thin Blue Line Project, a project in which Muslims with name and name are made public with address details and then intimidated by right-wing people. Robert Shillman, who is funding the project Veritas, which is currently under investigation in the United States by the law, by the police, because there is modified footage and conspiracy theories. The latter: he has ties with Proud Boys, a terrorist organization, recognized by Canada. Why does the PVV fish out of such an extremely cloudy pond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u195	I just thought Veritas was a great project, because they are doing a lot of research on the enormous left-wingness of the media, for example. For example, they have done a lot of research into CNN and how CNN distorts facts. It is, of course, absolutely outrageous what is happening. I'm a former employee of CNN in New York, but I'm ashamed to have it on my resume for how CNN has worked over the past few years. The project Veritas has revealed in a great way how that is done and how incredible it is that it is no longer one-sidedly run with the truth and how one is willing to lie to bring to light a certain political ideology. I mention, for example, the blind hatred of Donald Trump. So I don't know if Veritas is a very negative thing. I haven't gotten there yet. I'm very glad Mr. Shillman helped with the trial at the time. No one was waiting for the trial. It was a disgrace, a disgrace, shame, shame that it has ever turned. A rape of the separation of powers. Everyone thought it was normal. But that is obviously how we deal with the opposition in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u196	Mr. Van Baarle, concluding, and then we're going to talk about the law again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u197	This is about the law, because it's about party financing too. I think it's really shocking. So I find it really shocking that here a Member of Parliament, who has just given a morally elevated position about all the parties here, is defending that a member of this political party has received money from an organization that has spread fake news, which has contributed, among other things, to the storming of the Capitol, which is now under review in America, and does not distance itself from the fact that money has been received from someone who can be associated with Proud Boys, which is a terrorist organization in Canada. Shame, unheard of and hypocritical of a political party who wants to turn around every mosque to see where every penny comes from. I don't understand any of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u198	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u199	I think it's a little skinny that I'm just being called a hypocrite, because normally I'm also a racist and a fascist. I think Mr Van Baarle is a little weak today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u200	I just wanted to say that in one of the documents discussed in another debate this evening, it was reported by the College which oversees the financing of political parties. It found that the PVV had accepted anonymous gifts, which should have been returned to the donor. The PVV set that in motion. It doesn't necessarily say there's nothing wrong. It says neatly that it was wrong and that the PVV is going to fix it. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u201	Yes. There was also a gift from Bangladesh from an SP'er. I thought that was fascinating. An SP'er had received too much money. He had moved to Bangladesh. He had to pay it back, too. I thought it was kind of interesting. Then we're done, Mr. Chairman. Then I've brought everyone up to speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u202	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Arib. She speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking after Mr Bosma: get over that! Next time, I'm gonna sign up earlier so I can speak in front of Mr Bosma. Mr. Chairman. You have laws rushed through the Chamber with steam and boiling water, and you have laws that stay on the shelf for years, and can't be treated for any reason at all. In this respect, it is clear how much priority the previous Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren, gave to the regulation of the power of money in our democracy. The law we are discussing today is based on the opinions of the Veling Committee. That committee issued its final report on 1 February 2018. That was exactly four years ago. It's not until today that we're gonna talk about that. This undermines the voter's confidence in politics, which is already fragile. My first question in this connection is: why should we actually deal with this change of law, when there is a law on political parties coming? That question was asked earlier in a written round of questions by the Christian Union and the CDA. The State Committee has also indicated that it would be good to deal with this amendment in one go with the Law on Political Parties. I am therefore very curious as to why this did not happen and when the Law on Political Parties comes to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In a democracy, every voice counts equally heavily. That's how it works; at least, on paper. In practice, rich individuals and interests try to buy influence by giving large gifts to parties, to ensure that their voice after the elections is just a little better heard and their interests are just a little better represented than those of others. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is not known for its openness about how parties get their money flows. Since 2003, GRECO, the European anti-corruption body, has been warning against this problem, namely inadequate monitoring of money flows to political parties. For a functioning democracy, it is necessary to regulate the power of large money, to be open and transparent about gifts, and to limit the possibilities of donating money. For example, we see that donations from generous donors are not always registered, even though they are regulated. The magazine Follow the Money has done research on this. Big donations need to be made public. The Ministry of the Interior collects the donations given by the parties above the currently legal limit of €4,500 and publishes them on its website. In addition to companies and individuals, Follow the Money has also published foundations and ancillary institutions of parties in its overview. Ancillary institutions shall be subject to the same rules as political parties. They must disclose gifts above €4,500. Research shows that there are different ways to avoid the rules. Colleagues have pointed this out in interruptions. Those rules are being avoided. This is done, for example, by offering something for free. I call room rental, events or just gifts in kind. That's not reported. Home Affairs recognises that the obligation to register can be avoided, but does not want to take action on this because it would lead to over-regulation. That is all the more reason for the PvdA Group to argue for an independent committee to oversee the implementation of the Political Parties Finance Act. That is not the case at the moment. I am referring to a committee that supervises implementation, a committee with teeth. In that case, supervision is no longer with the Home Office, but with an independent committee. I have noticed in all these years that this is very difficult for the Home Office, also because it will lead to a political discussion. I'd like a reaction to that. Apart from companies and individuals, parties also receive money from foundations. There has been a lot of talk about this too, so I will not repeat everything. That too is not well arranged. It must be avoided that influence can be bought through the detour of legal persons, for example in the form of companies, foundations and associations, or that wealthy individuals can hide behind a foundation and a party can thus, even before the elections, raise EUR 1 million. As far as I am concerned, there is a far too great risk of influence. Transparency alone is not enough. That is why we have co-signed the amendments tabled by Mr Leijten and Mrs Bromet on this point, that legal persons can no longer give gifts. Then I'll join the local parties. That is also what has been said. Local parties can enrich themselves with numerous gifts from companies with little visibility. They are sponsored by companies and do not answer for it, only about the total and not about what comes from who. Local politics is about parking spaces, night permits and zoning plans. If there are no rules for this and there are no controls, then I am afraid that we will find ourselves in a list of countries that we do not want to be compared to. Another risk, I would also say to my colleague in the VVD, is that undermining sneaks into the local public administration. We absolutely must not allow that. I am convinced that this also applies to the VVD. It's because of the type of funding and because individual candidates who do stories often get round gifts in cash and in kind from parties that buy influence. It's only appearances that destroy confidence. We need a level playing field. That means subsidising local parties. Mr Eerdmans has indeed put forward proposals for this. We also voted in favour at the time, but unfortunately this proposal did not reach a majority. Maybe this bill will work. Mr Heijnen also tabled an amendment on this matter a few years ago, which did not make it at the time. It's more topical now than ever. Many local parties rightly say that we do not have a subsidy and are therefore dependent on other donations. Of course, that has to be arranged. It is important to create a level playing field for local and national parties, but really, with a basic subsidy and not sponsorship by companies. Mr Leijten has also tabled an amendment on this subject. We wholeheartedly support that amendment. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA has long stood for stricter rules to prevent influence. More than ten years ago... I mention my colleague Pierre Heijnen once again, because he has tabled all those amendments that I saw coming by today and which have not made it. Fortunately, there is a progressive understanding. I also see that an important part of the Chamber feels differently now, so let's get it right as a Chamber. Mr Heijnen's proposals were, of course, also about a maximum of donations. That was $50,000. Now the VVD and the SP are talking about €100,000. We have tabled an amendment with GroenLinks proposing €25,000. But, of course, we are prepared to settle that for good if an amendment sets a maximum. I have already said in my interruption that the ceiling is arbitrary. Mr. Chairman. It should be avoided that influence can be acquired through the detour of legal persons, in the form, for example, of companies, foundations or associations. It is also necessary to prevent wealthy individuals from hiding behind a foundation to donate EUR 1 million to a party even before the elections. But transparency is not enough. It is therefore important that only natural persons and secondary institutions of political parties should be allowed to donate and legal persons should no longer be allowed to do so. I have also signed an amendment by Mr Leijten on this point. I would also like to see the other proposals. Many of the amendments have been tabled, and of course we are going to put them next to each other. Then we'll try to come to an agreement. Finally, Mr President. With the present law, we are not there yet. This law must eventually be incorporated into the law on political parties which has been promised for a long time. But then there's gonna have to be that law. After all, it is also time for us to lay down rules on transparency about who is behind political campaigns via social media, to mention just one point, in order to ensure that there is genuinely independent supervision of at least the funding of political parties. On that point, if there is no commitment, I am considering tabling a second-term motion. I'd like to leave it at that. Right in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u204	Thank you, Mrs Arib. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It may sound a bit strange, but I sometimes compare the financial situation of politics in the Netherlands with the housing crisis. For you see, Mr President, once there was "people's housing" the idea that there was a legal and moral duty to provide people with a basic need for life. But for years, neoliberal policy, malpractice, has transformed this into the "dwelling market." And in politics, unfortunately, it's no different. We call ourselves "people's representatives." This title fits people with the sincere mission to stay in touch with the people on the street and in the neighbourhoods to take their daily troubles and solve them. As far as I am concerned, however, it is best to take this title away from a number of people and to speak better of the'representative power'. Because, Mr President, our democracy is for sale. The effects are similar in both cases. The worker, the ordinary citizen in the street, is constantly fishing behind the net and in the meantime it is the big companies and the most wealthy who make up the service. How can we talk about representation, when business lobbies and business clubs are allowed to make the final statement about party programmes? How can we speak of connection between citizens and government when parties run on individual donations of tons and sometimes even 1 million? It is a policy of exclusive meetings, auctions, holiday homes, donated art and influence through the back door. Mr. Chairman. The most important question we need to ask ourselves is who will actually be represented. And they are, as they often do, the rich, the millionaires, the Zuidas, the big business. That's not just morally reprehensible, it's so much more than that. Let me show you the guts to call the little beast by the name. We call that "corruption" in good Dutch. When you think about it, it's not so strange that we're here in this house but don't come to a living minimum. If you weigh that down against the huge amounts that flow to parties, then I do not think it is surprising that we are not fully committed to banning house milkers, that we are not burdening multinationals anymore and that we are not tackling the major polluters. After all, all this would not be in the service of the lenders. Then there's another problem. That's a problem that fortunately this bill has already passed a few times, and it also partly pays attention to: foreign influence. In their policy of hatred and xenophobia, we know it as a stick horse of the far right. But when it comes to their own money flows, suddenly everything turns out to be possible. Because then, ironically, there is no difficulty at all about tons from Hong Kong or Cyprus, or from a US businessman who has links with a terrorist organisation. That kind of money flows, mostly from abroad, we really have to fight, hard. Much of this dubious money is coming in via "s' that has already passed by today's foundations or so-called 'ancillary institutions'. The bill states that these gifts should be given more transparency. I wonder if the Minister can go into this more concretely. How is it going to be definitively prevented from using other constructions to lock in money? Mr. Chairman. Because of everything I have heard today, but what I have also outlined here, more public funding of political parties is an important step. At least, if it is accompanied by a heavy brake on private lenders. The bill doesn't dare yet. But I saw that a proposal has been made, I believe from GroenLinks, for a max of around €25,000. If that proposal is translated, I will certainly support it, but with the remark that my party's proposal should actually be a little stricter. And you can. My own party is a living example of that. You should know, I'm very proud of that. We only have one seat in this room, but we got it with thousands of small donations with an average of around €35. Grassroots campaigning, going out on the street, listening, talking to people and representing them sincerely: that's people's representatives. No luxurious dinners on the Zuidas, not tons of big capital that you can always fall back on, but just give the citizen a share in your own parliament. Mr. Chairman. Influence on our democracy should not be for sale. Parliamentary influence must never become a matter of the highest bidder and the deepest pockets. This is a threat to the functioning of our democracy and therefore a threat to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u206	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I came across many of my predecessors' motions, specifically on the tightening up of the subject we are discussing today. I will mention a number of them specifically later, because they can be found in the legislative proposal. For our group, it is important that we tighten up, respect the Wfpp and address each other if that does not happen. This law was already in place and should become part of the Law on the forthcoming political parties; it has been appointed more often. In the preparation of this document, I noted that such a law would add value. For establishing financial frameworks is a good step. But that is incomplete in the overall picture of the democratic rule of law and how we can make political parties work better in it. It now feels a bit like "plan follows money" instead of "money follows plan." Nor is it an answer to the question of what a healthy democratic system is also financially worth to us. Therefore the first question: what is the planning regarding the Wpp? What discussions are still on the table with the ministries, which means that the law is still not there? Because I would have loved to have treated them together. The Financing Political Parties Act entered into force on 1 May 2013. In 2018 the law was reviewed by the Committee-Veling. This report contains a number of good and valuable recommendations, some of which have also been incorporated. As far as we are concerned, this is a good example of why it is important to review laws periodically. What is not a good example is how long it remained. I would like to comment on a number of these recommendations in the course of my speech, but also on what I am missing. Maybe these are things that belong in the Wbp, but I'll give you an advance on that today. Money and politics remain a sensitive combination. On the one hand, companies or individuals should not be allowed to buy political influence through donations and parties should become too dependent on government subsidies. On the other hand, parties cannot play their role in the democratic system without any form of funding. Is the proposed, strengthened direction acceptable to the CDA? Yes, it is certainly imaginable, and in view of the many amendments it is expected that the Chamber will even want a little bit sharper, and the CDA is also open to that. We do think it's important to consider the consequences. Indeed, there is a very real chance that private donations will decrease as a result of the stricter rules. This increases government dependence and reduces the amount of resources to invest as a party in the connection with society. The question is then whether that is a problem. Honestly, I don't know the answer yet. But it could be a result that we can then hopefully discuss with each other. Is government funding necessary at all? After all, one could say that the transparency rules are clear; politically, success with them. Be creative and go collect money. But that also makes politics more vulnerable. Political funding enhances the resilience of parties against external stakeholders, whether they be sugarcomers, interest groups or companies. Reciprocity is deeply rooted in our norms and values. If someone does something for you, you're more likely to return the favor. Sometimes it even feels like an obligation, because otherwise you can experience a sense of guilt. As far as we are concerned, it is a good thing to limit this reciprocity in such cases. Among other things, the proposal gives effect to Mr Jetten's motion. This motion does not provide specific frameworks for the allocation of additional subsidies. That is why the cabinet has chosen to allow the political parties themselves to decide how they want to distribute these funds within their party organisation. The CDA has doubts as to whether this is the right direction. In fact, we have been arguing for years in the Chamber for a solid foundation on the substance and scientific component and for greater attention to our youth organisations. Do we want to leave this to ourselves, or are we going to send it more actively from the government? I would like a reflection from the Minister as to why the choice has been made not to distribute the additional resources by the existing standards. Do we want to continue to make public funding possible? Yes, but transparent. Under Article 21 of the Wfpp, when receiving gifts, a political party must report the name and address of the giver, the amount of the gift and the date on which it was made. In practice, however, it has been found that, unlike gifts from natural persons, this does not always make it clear who the donors behind these gifts are. As a result, voters cannot determine what they actually think of such gifts. We welcome the change in the rules so that it becomes clear who the natural persons behind legal persons and other legal entities are. This also makes it clearer what possible influence relationships can play out. We also understand the logic of joining the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, because this is also about ensuring financial integrity. It is also in line with the Van der Molen motion, in which the government is asked to take action, so that donations are effectively visible when given to a party or politician via one or more intermediaries, and to include mandatory transparency of these intermediaries as an effective condition in the law. What limits do you use when making things public? The proposal is based on €4,500 or more and debt of a total of €25,000 or more. We are seeing amendments that are in favour of further lowering these limits. For us, this is really discussable, but I do wonder from what amount the principle of reciprocity is going to be adversely affected. And is there actually a risk under €4,500, or do we want to encourage additional steps in transparency, because we have the appearance of opposition in society? The latter, by the way, is an argument that we must take serious account of. We are therefore in principle in favour of further strengthening the proposal. The counter-argument is likely to be administrative burden, but that only weighs to a lesser extent as far as we are concerned. We would like to hear the Minister's appreciation of the amendments, in so far as we have not yet received that appreciation in writing, before we make our final choice. In the context of improving transparency, the legislative proposal sees the disclosure of grant applications and accountability. These documents provide insight into the use of the subsidy by political parties and their secondary institutions. This will make it visible to everyone how they spend their funding. That's fine, but there are two points for our party right there. The answer to the question to which a party should spend money is in line with the question in which the government should invest. In this particular case, I mean guiding political ministers. The role of mayors and aldermen is getting harder and harder. More tasks are transferred to municipalities and the tasks are also becoming more extensive and more complex, in combination with a society that hardens. You see that in tasks like maintaining public order. The big transitions that we want to shape together are also really going to ask more of our drivers. Local drivers are also increasingly threatened. Good drivers stop prematurely. This role of training and support is now often the party itself, supported by, among other things, the VNG. I see, for example, very nice examples within our party of a combination of training, networking and intervisions, but we believe that this should also be invested more firmly from the government. It is in the national interest that these people should be able to function properly. These people in crucial roles should not only depend on their party in order to function properly. This is why we can better facilitate local directors of local parties. We would therefore like to see a further development of this in the Wpp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u208	There's been an interruption by Mrs Bromet. I was just looking for a natural moment before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u209	My question is still about the piece before this, which dealt with the amendments that have been tabled. Mrs Van Dijk says she would like to know what the Minister thinks. I would like to ask Mrs Van Dijk what she thinks about maximizing the amount that can be given per person per year and which has already been discussed this evening? I am not concerned about the Green Left amendment which sets it at €25,000. Others have different limits. I am simply concerned with the principle that a maximum amount is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u210	I'll get to that in a minute. We believe that this is a good proposal and we would also like it if we could jointly prepare a piece for it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u211	I think it would be really good if we could come to that as a room. I am therefore pleased with that answer. I would like to ask you to do so. Does Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA agree that this should be the end of cumulative giving or giving more through a cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u212	In my view, it is precisely the intention of this law to get that out and to ensure transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u213	Yes, that is certainly the intention, but there are several proposals for it. Mrs Bromet says: let us not talk about the height, but about the fact that there will be a limit. The CDA says: yes, I will come back to that; that can be discussed with us. But then we also have the taste: do we then do so for individuals and legal entities, with the exception of foundations and associations, which the VVD is looking for? I'd like to know what the CDA chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u214	I'm just wondering if I understand your question. So you are not talking about the discussion about companies versus just private individuals. You are talking about the discussion on the exclusion of associations and foundations? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u215	Yes. The proposals with a maximation of the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the SP and Omtzigt state a maximum of a certain amount. The VVD says: we also want a maximum amount, but not for foundations and associations. I was wondering where the CDA would be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u216	I followed that discussion with interest, because I also noticed that the more questions we asked about it, the more questions it raised on the other side. I am therefore curious as to what proposal the VVD will finally come up with. I'd like to weigh that. For now, we tend to just keep it simple, so: the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u217	That would be very good. I'm gonna listen to where the CDA's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u218	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u219	Then there is another point of interest: our young people involved in politics. This is already a big group. This group is growing and may become even more relevant as far as we are concerned. This proposal does not yet take account of the Van der Molen and others motion adopted. inviting the government to examine what measures can be taken to meet the increasing membership and activities of political youth organisations in a structural manner. In the answer, the government states: "The implementation of this motion requires careful preparation. It will be necessary, inter alia, to identify possible bottlenecks in the funding of the PJOs. The motion is therefore involved in the preparation of the Wpp." Here too, we would like to have a look at what is happening and what is being thought of in this context. Does Maximisation of Amounts add anything? The Veling Committee has drawn attention to the question of whether there should be a maximum amount of donations. At that time she suggested that maximation is not necessary. On the other hand, I have mentioned earlier that there is imagery in society that we can only take away by taking additional steps. Maximisation could help with this with regard to the CDA. I was just asked about it; GroenLinks gives €25,000 and the VVD €100,000. We have not yet adopted a definitive position, but I believe that I have made a commitment that we want to move towards a maximum and that we want to move forward together. I hope we can work that out. Let me turn to the next point. In 2016, by a large majority, a motion was adopted by my colleague Amhaouch, among others, asking the government to make proposals to limit foreign funding of political parties and political campaigns. This proposal is partly reflected in these proposals and we agree with that. The discussion then raised the issue of how we deal with gifts within the EU. To be honest, I had not thought very explicitly about this in my preparation, but I think it is important that these steps are taken. I will come back to it in the second term as to what our position will be. Mr. Chairman. Local parties are also an important part of our democratic system. In its opinion, the Council of State rightly points out that the exclusion of decentralised political parties also has an impact on the enforcement of the proposal. The government agrees with the Council of State that the ban on donations is better enforced if there is also a regulation on the transparency of the financing of decentralised political parties. Questions for transparency are only logical, but as far as we are concerned, it makes sense that you are putting something in the opposite direction, and that is a bit of financing for the Empire. Such a scheme is not part of the present legislative proposal, but becomes part of the Wpp proposal, the Minister indicates, so local parties have to wait for clarity, while their number is only increasing. My questions: is the financing of local parties included in the Wpp or only transparency? Does the government intend to follow the advice of the UNG, among others? When could such an arrangement be introduced? And finally, what is the problem of allowing it to go ahead now, in line with the SP amendment? Moreover, we believe that a national funding scheme can only apply to local departments that can demonstrate a solid party structure before money goes there. You get something, which we think is right, but it may also be a piece of solidity. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u220	An interruption, before you reach your lock; we keep the tension in it. An interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u221	I always try to wait for you to break in somewhere, but Mrs. Van Dijk sometimes talks fast. I have heard it right: you are actually in favour of the amendment, but you would like to know what the government thinks. What, according to the CDA Group, could be a negative qualification of the amendment that we could possibly remove in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u222	I find it very easy to say: let's get the money out of the existing jar. As a CDA of course we have a lot of local departments, so maybe we have a little less trouble, but there are also parties that have much less. So I think we should think about a little bit of cover, and we just don't have that right now. If we want to take that step, we must also seriously look for cover. Right now, I haven't found that money. I hope that we will take a very serious look at this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u223	I agree. I have also thought about this in the drafting of the amendment. Only, you know what happens: the cover becomes a reason to knock a principle out of your hands. We have a pot of money for funding political parties. We can also bet that pot of money for local. Then you redistribute it, yeah. It may be that this is a disadvantage to parties in this Chamber, but let us be honest about it: a while ago, those political parties also gave it a positive allocation when the Jetten motion was adopted. If we establish the principle, we can also say that we hope to have found it when the law comes into force. There will be a lot of work to be done in the spring paper. We're talking about 7 to 10 million. That's a lot of money. The average Dutchman doesn't have that on the savings bank. I certainly don't have that on the savings bank, but we know that this is not an insurmountable amount for the government. Wouldn't the CDA also consider it very important to just record that? In the worst case case, we redistribute that among ourselves and at best we find money, but then we give that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u224	Before I say yes, I would like to know exactly what this redistribution is going to mean for everyone. Then I will also make a decision for others, and I just want to be very well informed about what exactly this will have for the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u225	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u226	I think that is a very sensible question, which I think we can put to the Minister in this way. Since we are continuing the debate next week, it may also be possible for the answer to come our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u227	Finally, Mr President. Funding depends on the number of seats and I welcome the proposal by the Veling Committee to adapt the grant in four steps of 25% in one year to the new distribution of seats. Until the amount of the subsidy is adjusted to the new distribution of seats, the link between the two is considered necessary. At the same time, the parties will have a little more time to adapt to the new situation, because a loss of seats is also a loss of employees, and we need to take good care of our employees in bad times. This proposal will help in this respect. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u228	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u229	Mr President, thank you for the floor. An essential aspect of living together is to connect, connect and, if necessary, mediate. The same applies to the political democracy in which we move. I also welcome the fact that the evaluation report, which has been discussed several times, pays great attention to the position of political parties as mediators between society and politics, and I have already referred to this in the small debate on the interruption. From that perspective, there is clearly much reason to be positive about political parties, as long as you do not have a better alternative. Mr. Chairman. As a mediator, you need to know what's going on in two worlds. With one leg, you're in politics, and with the other leg, you're full of society. Political parties can contribute to better consideration of different perspectives and interests of citizens in politics. As a political party, you will have to make the necessary effort. So you're gonna have to make and maintain those contacts, and get fed out of society that way. A parliament consisting only of a collection of individuals is not profit in advance. Then you'll have that notorious Polish country day that's being discussed. Mr. Chairman. The SGP therefore understands the choice of public funding of political parties. Not only do we understand it, but we embrace it and we applaud it. We find this an excellent way to facilitate that connection between society and the political business. On the other hand, I also say that it also gives a somewhat uncomfortable feeling. Partly due to state aid, political parties have often become oiled political machines. This has often been highlighted by colleagues with different wordings. As parties become more closely attached to the State, the risk of them growing away from the society in which they should actually be rooted and anchored may increase. That is a field of tension that we, as a group, are still struggling with to date and which we still have to deal with in the run-up to the decision on this bill. In any case, I'm not making it a secret that this is a field of tension that we account for. Perhaps it would help if the government could indicate what is being done in concrete terms with this bill to encourage the social rooting of political parties. In recent years, several legal regulations have been introduced that provide citizens with more tools for influencing administrative decision-making processes. For example, I would like to mention the right to take initiative when a library facility fails locally or to make a family group plan when it comes to caring for children. Would the Minister consider to what extent the social rooting of political parties can also be promoted by the subsidy scheme, not only by this legislative proposal, which is the framework but also by the further development of subsidy rules? When it comes to social rooting, I have an example. There are proposals to create a ceiling for gifts. We have not yet taken a position on this either. On the one hand it may sound logical but it can also have the opposite effect. Doesn't it lead to political parties becoming more and more dependent on government subsidies and therefore less and less socially rooted, anchored and nourished? A serious question. Against the background of the amendments, the evaluation report gives a good example. In the 1950s, the PvdA received an annual ton of insurance De Centrale, one of the predecessors of today's Reaal. Is this an undesirable practice, or is there nothing wrong with it with sufficient transparency? I would appreciate the Minister's reflection on that. The evaluation report does not yet choose a threshold, but it does show mistrust. I quote: "By subsidising, it can also be avoided that parties become susceptible to undue influence by private donors." What does the government think? Is it necessary to be so critical of the role of private donors, whether foundations, associations, individuals or companies? It has been discussed regularly in this debate. I get all these questions, too. I also find them exciting, but I would also like to hear the Minister's feelings about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u230	I have just heard Mr Bishop say in an interrupting debate with Mrs Bromet that this would mean that there should be more funding. But where exactly did Mr Bishop see that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u231	Thank you for that question. It is not a proposal, but it is the consequence it may have. Unless you say it all has to be lower budget. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u232	Could it be that Mr Bishop in this debate is making an inference that if you restrict the buying of a party... that happens when it is a million. That's even the VVD too gritty. It says: a maximum is perhaps desirable. 'Cause you're gonna get a higher one, too. I think what Mrs Bromet said is a very clear argument: if one party gets a million, I want a million. So that has nothing to do with state subsidies. It has to do with external factors that have to do with money, that have to do with influence, with loyalty. Mr Bishop is going to say here that you cannot maximize that, because that is what you would argue for more funding. I think that is a really wrong element in the discussion, because that does not say anyone who is in favour of the maximation of these gifts. Everyone says you have to limit that idea of buying, that loyalty you get because of it. No one here has said that we need extra money. There is no amendment that regulates that. I see only amendments tabled by Mr Bishop himself, which talk about higher and lower subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u233	Maybe I didn't express myself quite clearly, but I don't think I can be inferred from my words that I'm against maximation. I have just said: how high that must be, how exactly we are in it, we are dubbing a little bit about it. I am concerned, however, that was the point I wanted to make, that if you maximise that, the budgets of the parties will go down and so the rooting and anchoring in society will come under pressure. Even if it were to be partially absorbed by higher government subsidies, you still have the same problem. This is a fundamental structural problem. I want that on the table. I have submitted to the Minister: let us reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u234	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u235	And even so, I think that is a pollution of the discussion. It is not about state subsidies or private gifts in which a party is for sale. You can also recruit members. You can also be rooted in society and get your support there. You can also take care of that carrot. Mr Bishop pretends to be one or the other. That private power, buying positions, we want to limit that. After all, we are a democracy in which every vote counts and every vote is worth the same. The SP has said €100,000, but we can also live with a much lower amount. We just think that that might be a border where other parties are joining, which makes that border happen. But it is not at all true that at the moment that you would limit or fix that on the much lower amount that GroenLinks is proposing, which is also fine, as far as we are concerned, the subsidy will automatically increase. You can also say to political parties: save some; no more cars with drivers, no more expensive headquarters; go recruit members and make sure that your social relevance is paid out. I therefore object to Mr Bishop's opposition. I also think that this is a source of pollution from the discussion. But that's what I told you. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u236	Mr. Bishop for a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u237	Sure. In all honesty: I am somewhat surprised by this reaction. I put the tension field on the table of the position of political parties. That party is, on the one hand, the intermediary representing social feelings and, on the other hand, participation in the public administration. You're gonna have to find a balance in that. This law makes a proposal for a new balance to be struck. I'll name the points you run into. Then, indeed, tell the parties: make sure you get more members. Fine, I'd like to agree with you very much! It's the only thing that doesn't solve the problem. And you don't just have the contribution. You're right, you don't just have government funding. You also have, especially in election time, the extra donations and the fundraising. That's what you see everywhere. And then, of course, the SP takes a very special place through the funding through the representatives. You could think about that, too. Isn't that something that needs to be maximized? Anyway, I'm gonna leave that for a while. The point is, here's the thing. With all due respect to Mr Leijten, I do not think her interruption is justified in the sense that she is shaving along the core of the problem I am trying to outline. This is the tension between, on the one hand, the social anchoring needed by the parties and, on the other hand, participation in the public administration. And if there's too much in the government apparatus... well, good. One can be at the expense of the other. That is the whole point I have put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u238	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten because a new element has been added to the debate and Mrs Leijten may feel touched by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u239	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u240	The SP has traditionally been a party that wants to self-indulge, and it does so through the payment scheme. This means that political representatives get a normal salary and everything that is up there goes to the party, just to be independent of government subsidies. That is not a new way of financing. It's part of the gifts. We try to maximize these gifts for all parties, including the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u241	Mrs. Simons for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u242	I'm just curious what Mr. Bishop means by uprooting from the social field. He talks about the risk that a maximation in respect of gifts could lead to social uprooting. I am really very interested to hear the explanation of that expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u243	The line of my speech, which I have now mentioned a few times, is that at the moment you have two lines within which a political party must function. We see that the membership numbers of many parties have fallen and are falling dramatically. In some it still rises fantastic; congratulations but in many it drops. The overall percentage of members has fallen significantly compared to a few decades ago. If that line continues and this is absorbed, for example, by higher subsidies, then there is social uprooting, because that party is no longer anchored in society. A number of members is an indication of the extent to which that party finds a response in society, in addition to of course election results, which can also be an indication but sometimes very volatile.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u244	If I understand correctly, Mr Bishop is talking about uprooting at the moment when members are falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u245	For example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u246	Suppose members drop and there will be no maximation of donations. We can see that it is still growing in some parties, as Mr Bishop says. Congratulations, but in others the number of members is falling. In that situation where the membership is falling but there is no Maximisation of gifts, is there any uprooting? I would ask Mr Bishop whether the rooting remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u247	As the membership declines, the distance from the party to society, the anchoring in society, decreases. That as such has nothing to do with the Maximisation of Gifts or not, although I can also emphasize this once in the maximation of gifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u248	Mrs. Simons, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u249	It's kind of special. Mr Bishop spoke about the risk of social uprooting if we were to maximize, as there would be more pressure on subsidies. Now I immediately ask the question: if the membership numbers are falling and there is no maximation, would there suddenly be no uprooting? I do not understand at all where this risk of uprooting comes from and how it will be prevented if we do not maximize. That is what I hear Mr Bishop say: we should not contain these donations too much, otherwise social uprooting may arise, and that is why it is so important that we keep high donations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u250	I have apparently made a different speech to Mrs Simons than I thought I was doing, because I have made it very clear that with the declining numbers of Members, the roots of the political party are falling. I have indicated that the maximation of donations can indeed be a logical measure, but I see that apart from direct rooting or uprooting. No, I think we're on different wavelengths.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u251	But there is another interruption by Mrs Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u252	Something has gone wrong between you and some of your colleagues, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u253	Yes. It happens, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u254	I'm not gonna go through with that, but you had started. You even called it "the socialist monkey from the sleeve," but I won't talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u255	I think that was a different point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u256	No, that had to do with it. I'll return to your contribution. You said that in the fifties that's far before my time.. The Central Gifts did to the PvdA, but that did turn out differently. Under the chairmanship of Ruud Koole, who is now Senior Member of Parliament for the PvdA, that stopped in 2003. The reason is that the PvdA does not accept gifts from legal persons representing organised interests. So it's important to put that right, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u257	Very good, but in the fifties it was right. I didn't look it up myself. I have just quoted that from the evaluation report. I'm not interested in a value judgment here either. But is there a limit here? The PvdA said we're done. Fine. That's a respectable decision, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u258	I hear someone say: put this debate on track. No, I'm not one of them. However, I would just like to say that I thought Mrs Arib's remark was completely superfluous. You weren't there in the fifties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u259	No, but a historian can look back. That's what the evaluation report does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u260	That's right. First of all, about rooted parties. The SGP is fairly well rooted and maintains that for quite a long time, so all respect for that. But then I'll come up with a question. There is a kind of phony suggestion here that you could get into trouble and that you would be less rooted if you made gifts above €100,000 impossible. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u261	It's not just about the gifts. The uprooting is, in my opinion, the most marked in the decline in the number of members of political parties. Of course, that has to do with donations. If occasional donations are added to that, it is always or usually in relation to the elections......................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm talking about. Even if you offset that falling income by subsidies, you run the risk of being drawn much more into the state domain. Then that uprooting becomes even more pregnant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u262	We know very well that last objection of the Reformed Party, which does not want to become a state-reformed party. That's a credit to my colleague Bishop. But again on the first point. I understand better now. From the argument I came to the conclusion that if you ban donations above €100,000, you should apply for more grants, while my conclusion would be: maybe you should, for once, learn from BE1 and see if you can set up a grassroots campaign with small gifts. I would like to have the SGP's statement that it is completely undesirable to have very large donors, because by definition it puts you in the realm of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u263	Extreme donations from a few people are, by definition, undesirable. This does not guarantee the necessary and desirable social anchoring that a party must have. In this sense, crowdfunding provides more social anchoring. Although, if that's just a one-time thing, you don't have a permanent guarantee of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u264	I didn't think I was getting the merger between BE1 and the SGP today either, but they're starting to get a little closer. But what is an extreme gift for the SGP beyond which it becomes socially undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u265	I see amendments passing which mention 1,000, 2,500, 4,500, 100,000 and 25,000. We have not yet reached a judgment on this, but I can imagine that the eyebrows will be slightly frowned upon at a figure of 1 million which will be donated a few days before the elections. But we have not yet taken a position on the amendments and the level of such ceilings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u266	Mr Omtzigt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u267	Then I am very curious to see what position is to be taken. By the way, these are 1,000, 2,500 and 4,500 public access limits. I haven't seen them as maximum limits. Only the 25,000, 50,000 and 100,000 are limits that I mentioned in this debate. If I were to smuggle a little more: I hear colleagues here saying that there are parties paying for cars with drivers. You know I'm not a big fan of all parties, but I don't know any parties that are doing this right now. I hope that the contrary is not claimed. In itself, I see that political parties deal fairly neatly with the subsidies they receive in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u268	Mr. Bishop, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u269	Mr. Chairman. All this in response to a question that I was actually quite open, namely: does it result in political parties becoming increasingly dependent on the government and getting less and less social food when too much action is being taken on gifts and that sort of thing? I'd like to await the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to dwell on the increase in political engagement. The social development of the 1960s was not a rosy smell for politics. The number of Members halved between 1960 and 1970; I mentioned that. The number of members compared to the number of voters even fell by two thirds. More worrying at the moment is that parties can find more and more difficult candidates for the city council locally. The specific question I would like to raise is: what is the government doing to make council membership more attractive and what role can legislation play in this? As a follow-up, I would also like to comment on the political youth organisations. We are not so satisfied with the proposed funding. Without too much justification, the evaluation committee states that it sees no reason to continue the deviating funding. The SGP can see that reason. The law explicitly states that youth organisations should focus on promoting the political participation of young people. Members' recruitment plays a crucial role in this process. I am already hearing signals that youth organisations are wondering whether the marginal role of the members in the granting of grants makes sense and justified for time to be taken up in the recruitment process. How does the Cabinet feel about this? With the amendment in part No. 29 I would like to add more balance and stability to that. The SGP also notes that the government is not fully consistent in extending funding systems to youth organisations. The political parties do have a fixed basic amount which they can count on, but not youth organisations. The amount they receive depends on the number of youth organisations. Inside, the division takes place. So that creates uncertainty and instability. The SGP proposes that political youth organisations should also be given a real foothold. My amendment to item No. 28 goes into that. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the consistency with a new law that is hanging over the market and may remain there for a while. I would like a more detailed explanation of the relationship between the bill and the announced Political Parties Act. Is there not the risk that cohesion will suffer if we adopt the legislative proposal now, while there will be a complete replacement 'within a foreseeable period', which has been said before? It could be that the choices we are making now will continue to work in the new law, which may not be optimal in the overall picture. If that's the case, then we have something like double work, it seems to us. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u270	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Political parties play an important role in our democracy. They are the foundation where ideas, values and standards about the ideal vision for society are formulated, where citizens are motivated and mobilized to convey this vision, and preferably within our popularly represented institutions. To get there, there are all kinds of activities that a political party takes on. Political funding enables them to seep through this vision in our society. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the amendment of the Financing Act political parties, the Wfpp. For D66, transparency on funding is the most important issue. My predecessor Schouw also argued this in the 2011 treatment of the Wfpp. It is important that voters are well informed in elections about the positions, but also about the organisational aspects, such as the source of the money. There are quite a few hooks and eyes to that in the current law. I refer to the use of intermediaries, foundations whose donors or other sources of income remain unclear. That can and must be done better. In our opinion, this law improves this transparency. This law makes it clearer who the natural persons behind the legal entities are, ancillary institutions of political parties have to provide additional transparency obligations prior to the Lower House elections and thresholds for disclosure of gifts from the EU/EEA are reduced to zero euros. At the same time it may go a bit further, if it is up to D66. That is why we are going to vote in favour of the amendment to No. 25 of the VVD support. This ensures that foundations that donate from €1,000 will have to explain where their money comes from and who is the person involved in the foundation. In this way, we will ensure that there is even more transparency and openness. The timing of disclosure is also an important point with regard to D66. Now it is only after the elections that an overview of income and debt is presented. However, my group believes that transparency on large amounts of donations should be provided as soon as possible. That is why we are in favour of Amendment No 2. 15 of Mr Leijten. Mr. Chairman. We are also in favour of reducing the amount on which transparency is required. The threshold for public access is now €4,500. In 2011 D66 tabled an amendment with GroenLinks that lowers the threshold to €1,500. In its recommendations, the Veling Committee indicates an amount of €2,500. In any case, we will support the proposals which reduce the amount of the threshold. Good thing we're going to do something about outside influence by non-free regimes, but is it waterproof? What if this is made possible through Dutch intermediaries? What additional possibilities for protection does the Minister see? Then there is structural funding. It is good if parties have a variety of sources of funding, as the Veling Committee also observed, especially against the background of relatively limited public funding in the Netherlands, compared to other countries. I'd like a response from the Minister. We think it is a good idea that important functions such as scientific agencies are guaranteed a share of this amount by applying the bill key to the additional amount. That is why we are going to support the Christian Union amendment that will ensure this. Finally, the local parties. This law concerns only political parties with at least one seat in the First or Second Chamber. But local democracy is also an essential part of our democratic rule of law. There are more and more local parties that are not in the Lower House, but they can also be influenced. Is the Minister prepared to investigate what it means that these local parties are not now covered by this law? Mr. Chairman. Finally, D66 considers it important that supervision of party financing is always independent. The minister says he's gonna take care of that in the law on political parties. It is really important to ensure independence and the possibility of sanctioning. Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that the amendment to place it at the Election Board was rejected in 2011. We understand that it is not possible in this law, but when does it indeed come to the Chamber mythical Law on the political parties? We want to deal with this as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u272	There's been an interruption by Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u273	I actually miss the point in the story of D66 that we have already talked about a lot this evening: the maximation of gifts. I understand that that can be quite painful for D66, because they obviously received 1 million last time. But what about D66 in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u274	In 2011, we voted against Maximising. For us, transparency is the most important thing. Where's the money coming from? Whose money is it? And what's the interest of that person?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u275	But how does D66 look at the level playing field that you actually want in a democracy, where one party does not get 1 million and the other doesn't? That actually gives the impression that you're buying votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u276	I am not really concerned about the level playing field at the moment, given the diversity of parties that are here. Their financial resources and situations are also very different. When I see who's all here, it certainly doesn't depend on the richest party. So I'm not worried about the level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u277	I think this is the first party tonight that doesn't want to max out. That surprises me, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u278	I am going to look into all the proposals that have been tabled today. I have not yet reached a judgment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u279	It is a pity that D66 has not yet delivered its opinion on this matter. D66 we know as a party for transparency and clear boundaries. It is a party that, for example, voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on not allowing funding from outside the EU. But D66 sees nothing in the proposal on gifts above a tonne, which is quite a lot of money. Actually, I'm sorry about that. What exactly is the reason for D66 to agree that one party gets 1 million and the other party doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u280	Mrs Leijten says that I have already said that I am totally fine with that and so on. But I didn't say that. I said that for D66 transparency is the most important issue. If it is clear where the money comes from and what the interests of the person who gave the money are, then it is also clear what the interests or the appearance of the conflict of interest might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u281	An investigation has been conducted in which someone on behalf of De Telegraaf gave €15,000 to all kinds of political parties. He also came to D66. Anonymous gifts above €15,000 are not allowed. That was the construction. It didn't just happen with D66. But also with D66 this person was helped, at least to cover it up, to give it anonymously, while that was against the rules. What does that behavior, also that of other parties, mean in relation to saying that everything is good if we ensure transparency? There's a lot of muffled away. There's an awful lot being given. If, as political parties, we cannot maximize ourselves, what do we give for confidence in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u282	Thanks for the question. We are very much opposed to this shadowiness. I do not know about the investigation, but we welcome the transparency that this law and the various amendments by the various Members are going to offer. We'll make it better. We agree that there must be an end to this shadowiness. That solves the problem of trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u283	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u284	I'm actually a little... Mrs Bromet also said: this is the first party of the whole evening that does not want to do maximation. Later on, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz says: I am going to discuss this in my group. In the past, the CDA and the VVD did take that kind of donation through all kinds of constructions. But they just say: yes, we're gonna maximize and we're gonna talk about where that has to come from. I would have liked to have seen that with D66, too. Then the local parties. Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz says that she is in favour of this. I have a quote on my bench from her predecessor. He said, "We have to take care of that." Does Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz think that we should take care of this and will she support the amendment that we have tabled? Or does she push it forward too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u285	I myself asked the Minister this question. Is it true that local political parties are not now covered by this law? We have said in the past that we really must take care of this. I'd like to hear the Minister's cover. My colleague from the CDA said the same thing. I can't do magic. I am not in any way opposed to the proposal, because in principle we agree with each other. Just... I don't have the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u286	The system is now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u287	Actually, I wanted to give Mr. Bosma the floor. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u288	The system now is that we simply regulate it from the budget that is now available. If that is not enough because we have to turn ourselves in as national parties, then we can always talk about it. But the principle is guiding. The budget for funding political parties is also about local parties. If you honor the principle, you may also suffer from it. D66 could also table a motion here to give 7 or 9 million extra to political parties. It's really weird if you can't give that to local parties, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u289	I would very much like to hear from the Minister what the consequences will be if Mrs Leijten's amendment is implemented, especially the financial consequences. I'll make a decision then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u290	That's pretty late for a trade-off. It's not just about anything. A lot of groups who spoke before have mentioned those weird and shady D66 deals. Mrs Dekker says that the shadowiness must be removed. No, the shadows are like D66. Right before the election, D66 gets 1 million from a tech billionaire doing business with Facebook. I've established the relationship with certain opinions here ventilated by D66. Next we have a real estate deal in Amsterdam on the Zuidas. In addition, someone, another left-wing billionaire, gives money to D66 and knows how to make a great deal of which a professor says: this at least has an appearance of conflict of interest. Mrs Simons just used the c-word: corruption. This all smells like corruption, doesn't it? This all smells like boyfriend services, doesn't it? This reeks of money influencing the election results. This reeks of an election victory. Congratulations on buying it. This stinks all over, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u291	I don't agree with the PVV that it stinks on all sides. When we received the donation from Mr Schuurman, we made it out right and proactively. Mr Schuurman has been in the media with this to explain it. With us, the election programme had already been established. The list was established. Nothing's changed. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there was no shadowiness. I think we've done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u292	Nothing's changed? What planet did you come from to say that? Everything's changed! D66 has been able to buy his way around the election campaign, has been able to buy all the websites, has used big billboards, has been the only big commercials to pay and has just bought the election. A tech billionaire, a left-wing tech billionaire, gave you $1 million and you just bought the election! That's why you have such a large group here. That's what's going on. Then you cannot say: oh, we have been open and transparent. That's not what this is about. What matters is that you bought the election with a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u293	I do not agree with that at all. It has also just been in the newspaper that we are not even the party with the most money, so we did not buy an election at all. Again, we've been open. I believe that this law deals with the financing of political parties and, as far as we are concerned, with openness and with how transparent you are about where that money comes from. We've been very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u294	Thank you. There is still an interruption, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz. Can you stand still for a while? There is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u295	I know D66 as a party that is always very keen on the appearance of conflict of interest and on whether it is acting purely. How can you avoid the appearance of conflict of interest if you accept a $1 million gift?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u296	By doing the right thing. The larger the amount, the greater your responsibility to be open and transparent about the money. Because we acted purely as a party... By the way, we were also against maximation in 2011, so nothing has changed. That million dollars doesn't change our minds at all. We have clearly acted and openly said that we have received money, even before the law prescribes it. We have explained it in the media and he has also explained it in the media. With us, the electoral programme had already been established, so if anything had to change, it would have been the electoral programme. That is why we do not believe that there is any evidence of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u297	The election programme in The Hague has assumed mythical proportions, because even after that many policy decisions are taken in politics. I wholeheartedly believe that the electoral programme has not been affected, and I commend D66 for having made it pro-actively public. That's not where the clamp is. The clamp sees it as a standard in our political actions here... constantly setting "the appearance of conflict of interest" as a standard. You don't want your financial actions, even if you do it purely, to be linked to your political actions. That is why we Members of Parliament have a good income, so that we do not have to accept anything. There are hundreds of things that we derive from that. There's no way a one-million-dollar gift goes with that. It has also been banned or restricted in almost all our neighbouring countries. D66 likes to look at those countries. Then why does D66 insist that such gifts should remain possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u298	Everyone says we're gonna stick to it. I am just saying that we have not yet expressed our opinion on this. We are going to consider and study all the very good proposals made by our fellow Members. In the past we were against this and in principle our opinion has not changed, but we are going to consider it and really study it seriously. So I don't have a hundred percent to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u299	In conclusion, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u300	Last time, in 2012, there were only two parties for a maximation. There was one amendment before it, and indeed: Labour Party and GroenLinks were the only two parties who voted in favour of it at the time. That's right. But after everything that has happened here, a number of parties have said: well, we'll see what happens. By the way, D66 has always been part of that department. If things change, you can see if you have to. We have seen elections involving very large donations. That was undesirable, I'm just saying. You can have a long discussion about exactly where that border is. I think that for larger parties it may be slightly higher than for smaller parties. There are all kinds of reasons for this. But it's gotta be somewhere. I am really amazed that D66 is entering this debate and that it is only after the debate that a discussion is held in the group, and everyone knows that this will be the central point of the debate. This is not an unexpected question; anyone can see it coming. The whole idea of a debate is that during the debate you can talk about it and also change your position. So could I ask the D66 Group to have that debate in the next group meeting so that we can get an explanation in the second period as to why it is being chosen or not? Then we can just start the debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u301	Finally, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u302	I don't think that's necessarily necessary. I think that the vote will make it clear what we are going to vote and what proposals we will or will not support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u303	Mr President, one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u304	Really rounding up, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u305	We do not need to have a debate here unless we can ask colleagues about logical aspects of the position. That you are not prepared for every question: at your service. But this is the question that everyone knew was coming, isn't it? I'm really surprised that a party doesn't say, well, this is about how we're in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u306	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u308	Then we will listen to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u309	Thank you. Welcome to the Minister. I do not think we have met in this Chamber yet. Mr President, Members of the Chamber, citizens in the Netherlands, and in particular all those directors, group supporters, council members and volunteers from local parties, waterboards and provincial groups. Today we are discussing the financing of our own parties with all parties. I must say that, quite frankly, it feels a bit uncomfortable, especially since, despite all the opinions on this matter, the proposal before us does not yet regulate anything at all for the parties outside The Hague. This is being pushed forward to the new Political Parties Act. That treatment was postponed because the cabinet was decommissioned. But the cabinet is no longer a missionary. So why not do everything at once, as colleagues here have asked? Local parties grow at every election. They received almost a third of all votes in the municipal elections in 2018. In number of votes it is the largest party group in the Netherlands. Not the VVD has the biggest supporters in the Netherlands, no. Local parties together have the largest supporters in the Netherlands. Local parties sit in three quarters of the municipalities, in the College of B&W, making a huge contribution to local democracy. Local parties are parties with the legs in the clay, the roots in society. Local parties have, like no other, flawlessly in the poll of what lives and plays in society. That deserves to be reflected in the number of votes, rightly so. There is a good chance that they will grow even further in March, especially now that many people have lost confidence in national parties. Of course, local council members of national parties often conduct local politics. They vote differently and on subjects other than those discussed in The Hague. But the fact that people in the Netherlands associate a local VVD or a local CDA with the national VVD or the national CDA makes sense. That is certainly the case as long as these parties themselves do not explain better what they are doing than their national group. That is certainly the case as long as these parties do not oppose the policy pursued by their national group in The Hague. However, the VVD-group West Betuwe strongly opposed the policies of the national group, against 2G and the ctb. So it's possible. Mr. Chairman. In the municipal reclassification elections in November 2021, local parties in all municipalities became by far the largest. In the most recent waterboard elections, local parties were the largest, with 41% of the votes. The first signals are there: local is the new normal. However, they cannot claim the 25 million euro national subsidy for political parties divided by the Financing Act. It's ridiculous, and it's undemocratic. Explain this to the people in municipalities who vote for local parties. That is not to be explained as far as BBB is concerned. Perhaps the Minister can explain. BBB therefore calls for additional funding to be made available to local political parties. As early as 2018, the Finance Act was reviewed by political parties. The advice was to invest in local parties, the basis of local democracy. However, the cabinet has failed to make a proposal for this. We've been six years. It's high time the House of Representatives fixed that. Mr. Chairman. BBB wrote in the election programme that local parties should also receive money on the number of seats in the municipal councils and that parties in the provincial states should also receive an equivalent party subsidy, such as national parties in the Lower House who are now also receiving it. National parties invest their contributions in their associations, in their training, in networks and in campaigns. Local parties receive €0. That's unfair and undesirable. It seems like the national government is determined to keep these parties small. But I can't, because as I said, local parties are getting bigger and bigger. Mr Leijten's amendment to settle this once and for all will therefore be fully supported. However, we were triggered by the explanation that the risk of financial influence at local level is greater than less than that at national level. I wonder if this is backed up by facts. I do not think so, but perhaps Mrs Leijten can explain this. If so, I believe that this applies to all parties and therefore also to the local sections of the parties here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The present bill also provides for rules on the reception of gifts by the parties. As far as BBB is concerned, it is not so much about the amount of the amounts, but about transparency. Who exactly is the money from? What's it spent on? Transparency in what you receive. When BBB was founded, when no one had heard from BBB in The Hague, fortunately there was a change in that and we were busy in weather and wind and in small rooms busy with hands full of people as an audience and when we were working on our first set of volunteers to announce our mission and our name, we also had zero funding. The two people who formed the party with me were co-owners of an agricultural communications agency. By chance, I hit them. They wanted to create a website, create a newsletter, do membership registration and so on. Later a webshop was added. They did this in order not to do so, in other words voluntarily, without calculating costs. Nota bene I was the one who said at some point: I want to be open and transparent and I would very much like you to calculate how much it would have cost if all your work had been done at a commercial rate. They made that calculation on my request and came to a total of €174,000 if I had paid for it as a client. That's the amount we gave to the Ministry as a gift in kind. Mind you, we didn't have to do this. We did so in order to be transparent, as we ourselves advocate. But transparency can also turn against you. It is incredibly hard for our own transparency to accuse me of being paid as a parliamentarians by the meat and dairy industry, so now, as we speak, I am being paid by companies to do my parliamentary work. That's not just bullshit; that's even a big slander. As annoying as this slander is, I wouldn't want me to have done it any differently, because transparency is more important to me than anything else. Then listen to slander. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the parties, ancillary institutions and candidates on the lists must also comply with the transparency rules. This also applies to foundations and/or other forms of organisation that have been or become specially established for fundraising. However, as far as BBB is concerned, this should apply to all donation organisations, with the names of the corresponding directors. For example, shadowy constructions and conflicts of interest are prevented or exposed. The bill has no rules for local divisions of political parties or for local parties. These gifts should also be insightful. This should not be postponed to the future Political Parties Act. What's the Minister's status on this? Mr. Chairman. Citizens' confidence in politics, national and local, depends on the decisions and statements here, at the moment. You can't impose your local departments at one point with whom they may or may not cooperate in municipal councils: the call Jesse Klaver and Sigrid Kaag made last week. That is a bizarre and undemocratic appeal, by the way. First of all, they are not about this at all. Secondly, it is precisely undemocratic to exclude democratically elected parties in advance. I remember Mr Klaver van GroenLinks and Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA a few months ago had tears in the eyes of grief when the VVD reported that she did not want the PvdA and GroenLinks in a coalition. Heaven and earth were too small! How dare that fucking VVD do this; you're being shut out like that, you shouldn't. There's a nice saying for this: having butter on your head. Some people have a few kilos of butter on their heads. Coming back, Mr President, you can't call your local departments to such a thing at one point, so impose who you may or may not work with in the city council, and in the same week here pretending that local politics shouldn't be covered by this law. Be honest, be just and be consistent. Only then will it start regaining trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u310	We are going to have a debate this week on ways of dealing in the Chamber, but I must say something about it now. If you have such a sharp criticism of political parties or have a question about their amendment, then I think that, when they speak, you should stand up and ask them to do so. You can do that on your own term. Mr Bosma did it too. But then you know that the moment someone makes a point of that, you always have the last word, while you can question someone at the time he speaks there. Well, according to the manners, it's neat that you're asking a question. Having said that, I would like to return to what Mrs van der Plas said about my amendment. What I meant by that is exactly what that amendment says, namely, in the spirit that it did not read out. We would like local parties to receive financial support. We think that's more honest. We think they're under surveillance. We also say that the risk of financial influence at local level, where distance from the representative of the people is relatively small and the nature of the decisions is more concrete rather than smaller than at national level. Someone really decides concretely about the construction of this new project, where the distance is greater with us. That's what the amendment says. So, Mrs van der Plas, I assume it was a rhetorical question, because the answer is already in the amendment. In addition, I think it would be nice if Mrs Van der Plas had asked me in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u311	A response from Mrs Van der Plas, if desired.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u312	That's a choice. It's a debate. This is what you do here in public in front of the whole of the Netherlands. Those images go all over the world sometimes, so I don't think it's weird that I'm just asking right now. Anyway, I think that's a choice you make. Anyway, you said it, and I made my choice to ask here. I don't think it's a weird, nasty question either. It's just a clarifying question, because I missed that. It is in the amendment, but I am curious whether there are any real examples of this and whether research has been carried out. That's it. That's it. It's just an open question. It's not a criticism. It's just an open question. Do we know that? Do we know if that's true? Why then would it apply more to the local authorities of local parties rather than to the local authorities of the national parties? That's just something I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u313	Let's talk about the manners first. This is a debate which Mrs van der Plas herself has requested. It is true that you are asking another party for their views when that other party is standing there. Those are the forms of association. That is really different from asking a few questions in your own reply and hoping that someone will get up to explain themselves, or else leave a suggestion hanging. That was probably not Mrs van der Plas' intention, nor will I say that, nor will I answer the question she asked me in her own term. But that's a strange way of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u314	Do you mind if I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u315	I suggest that Mrs Leijten finish this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u316	I don't know if there's any research on that, but I do know that local departments with their gifts fall under the national regime. In any case, that applies to the SP. They can't take those gifts unless they justify it that way. When there are major construction projects in a city council, the construction of a data centre or whatever, you know that there are also big interests and big things going around. It is precisely then that you should have those transparency rules, to protect those choices and also to protect political representatives who should not be forced into the suspect bank. As far as we are concerned, the amendment is two-fold: you support the local representatives because you do the same with the national ones, and they have the transparency rules that we demand from the democratically elected ones. That's why we wrote this down. It's in there. I would have really liked it if Mrs Van der Plas had shown interest in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u317	That is the point you made and you have answered the questions that have been asked. Is there still a need for a response, Mrs Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u318	Mrs Leijten is talking about her own words, as I am talking about my own words. To be honest, I think it's a little exaggerated to make such a huge point of that now, when I'm just asking an open question. You could be looking for trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u319	GroenLinks is one of the largest local parties in the Netherlands. We are represented in almost all municipalities, unlike BBB. I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas whether it is not very democratic to say in advance what you want as a political party. In our case, the local GroenLinks departments, everywhere in the Netherlands, will not be on a board with PVV and Forum for Democracy. Or does she tell you to leave that in the middle a little bit and then you'll see what a party like that does? That's very democratic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u320	Before I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas: I allow this interruption, I also let Mrs van der Plas make that point, but we are straying from the law we are discussing here. You can respond to the interruption, because I will allow it, but I would like to return to the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u321	Firstly, I would like to clarify that we are not yet participating in the municipal elections. We are only a short while away and we are not going to plant like a wild all kinds of people in municipalities that we don't know at all who these people are. Then you'll get all kinds of shit that happened to other parties. We don't think that's appropriate. Moreover, we do not want to get in the way of local parties, because local parties are already very rooted in municipalities. We don't want to be in the middle of that for a while. That's one. We are a little less long than GroenLinks, which is why we are not in so many municipalities yet. The second point I would like to answer. No, I find it undemocratic to exclude people in advance. As GroenLinks nationwide says: yes, you know, the policy we conduct here doesn't necessarily have to be municipal, at municipal level it's all different, there you have people who might do it differently. And the local people of CDA say: yes, but we are not the national CDA, we are the local CDA. Perhaps that could be done by other parties as well. Mrs Bromet can shake her head off, but I simply am not in favour of excluding parties in advance. For example, the Party for Animals is not a party that I would put in front of the queue to work together, but I will never rule them out, ever. If we ever get into a coalition in the city council, anywhere, I'll never say I don't want the Party for Animals to be there, because I look at content and I count people on content, even though that sounds a little nasty. In substance, I don't think that party is right for us, so we can't work with that. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u322	Actually, I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u323	But I think that rule out in advance is undemocratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u324	Mrs van der Plas, I would very much like to leave it at that. Then we go back to the subject of the debate. You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u325	I'm at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u326	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Van der Graaf, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u327	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for the floor. It is a great privilege for me to speak here again tonight, for the first time after a very long time. I was allowed to return to the heart of democracy as a member of the House of Representatives in order to return to my ideals of striving for justice and justice. I was also allowed to return as a mother of two daughters. You understand I'm a grateful man. Returning to the heart of democracy also gives me the privilege of getting back to work on the craftsmanship that MPs are allowed to do. From the first day I was here again, I am working on my task in the Committee of Inquiry into Natural Gas Extraction in Groningen. We're in the middle of a very intensive phase of preconcussions in private. That is why I haven't seen so many debate rooms in this new Chamber inside. I hope to be able to pick it all up soon, and that's why I came in your midst a little later tonight. Nevertheless, I would also very much like to work on our task as co-legislator tonight with regard to a law on the financing of political parties and their transparency. Mr. Chairman. Political parties are not only citizens' organisations, but also have a public function. "The public interest of political parties" was also called the report written by the Veling Committee on the evaluation of this law. Political parties are part of a system that we attach importance to, a system of transparency and fair elections, which are not about money but about everyone's equal input. Because of the influence that political parties have on our country's governance, it is no comfort or luxury to know where the money they can do their job comes from. It is even an absolute necessity to know that, nationally but also locally. Mr. Chairman. The law before us tonight is the result of the review of the Finance Act, political parties. The law strengthens the rules for funding political parties by increasing transparency about gifts, the limitation of gifts from outside the European Union, and raising the funds for political parties in line with the motion adopted by the Chamber in 2019. Now there is also a path to come up with the Law on Political Parties. Some things surprise you sometimes when you haven't been around for quite some time. You're wondering what it would be like with certain laws, in this case the Wpp. He's not here yet. I still think it is a good idea, and the Christian Union thinks it is a good idea, that we should now deal with this law, namely the adaptation of the Financing Act, political parties, which was on the agenda in the run-up to the Wpp. I agree with the questions that many colleagues have already asked. I heard that one. What's the status of this law? I am assuming that the Minister will be able to answer that question. Mr. Chairman. I'm going into a number of parts of this law. I shall begin with an issue that has not now been included in the legislative proposal and on which, together with Mrs Arib, I have drafted and tabled an amendment. It concerns the identification of some of the additional resources included in the legislative proposal for political parties for the political and scientific institutes and the political youth organisations. There is a risk of not including it in this law. Because without an ear tag, our scientific institutes must compete with a campaign plan or membership recruitment for their money. There is a great chance that the short-term interest of a campaign will then prevail over the long-term interest of ideological thought formation. 'Cause what's the big deal? For me, that is in looking beyond the delusion of the day and producing new ideas, in keeping the ideological compass on which a party has founded itself and in reviewing ideas, offering internal counterpower, if you will, and also against the pursuit of decision-making that we may sometimes fall prey to in the Chamber. I see that in my own party, too, where the Greens of the Prinster Foundation played an essential role in reviewing our programme of principles, which is the basis for our electoral programme and our political action in this Chamber, but also in all the other representative bodies in which Christian Union representatives were elected. There can be no campaign against that interest. That is why my group has tabled an amendment to the effect that, in line with the Veling Committee, those additional resources for political parties should also, to a proportionate extent, be granted to the scientific institutes according to the existing system of distribution, in order, as the treasurers of the parties recently said in De Groene Amsterdammer, 'to protect themselves from ourselves'. The amendment also refers to the second group I mentioned, which is crucial for us in the political system, namely youth organisations. With a modest budget, they can achieve a great deal. They act as a louse in the fur of their mother parties and also function from the young generations as a counterpower within a party. Not to mention the opportunities they offer young people to develop politically-ideologically. We therefore also follow the advice of the Veling Committee to prevent these youth organisations from competing with other party interests for much-needed funding. Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to return to the local parties. I have drawn attention to this earlier, and I am also pleased that they are currently playing a major role in the contributions I have heard from several colleagues here. For they have been a permanent place in our local democracy for a long time. They are parties that are not always represented in the Chamber, but may be represented. In a few weeks' time, they can become the biggest in the municipal elections. Mr. Chairman. We see a vulnerability in this. That is not a fictitious situation I imagine. We've just seen that in the past few years. Here in The Hague, too, it has been the subject of research for years: integrity research on the financing of a local party. But this also plays in other municipalities. This is detrimental, including to politics as a whole and to its prestige. But there's a story behind it. On the one hand, we see that there is too little visibility and insight into the financial flows of local parties and that they do not have to justify their finances, as national parties have to. On the other hand, we also see that they cannot claim the national subsidy and are sometimes dependent on more unorthodox forms of party financing, which I think we can rightly question. The Veling Committee, which carried out the investigation into the evaluation of the law, also saw that interaction and recommended: bring them under the operation of this law and come up with a grant provision. Mrs Leijten has tabled an amendment on this subject, and my group is looking at it with great interest. This is one of the subjects that has arisen with the passing of time since the Veling report. This is a discussion that has been pushed forward since the start of working on this law. But it is important to make room for this in our legal framework as well. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the subject that has dominated the media enormously: the maximisation of gifts. In doing so, my group takes into account the interests that the Veling Committee has distinguished, namely the autonomous position of political parties, the risk of undue influence and the principle of equal opportunities. The Veling Committee did not think the time was right in 2018 to give an opinion on this and to make a specific recommendation on this maximation. But the committee did not rule that out either, because the donations to political parties could increase substantially in the near future. We've seen that happen. So there is also reason for the Christian Union to think about maximizing gifts. I would very much like to know how the Minister is looking at that right now. Mr. Chairman. I would also very much like to put the following thought down. I have not yet prepared an amendment to that effect. I like this legal treatment that really gives room for open debate and thought-forming. These aren't topics where you make a choice in one night of ice cream, I guess. So it's also good that we can take some time for this legal treatment. We would also like to know how the Minister is looking at the idea of setting a maximum amount for the total amount of donations that parties could receive. That is actually in the light of the level playing field. Couldn't you do better with that? After all, the best ideas must win elections, not the best fundraising actions. This also played a role in the media. I saw Professor Gerrit Voerman put forward a proposal for this. So I would also very much like to hear from the Minister how she looks at that. Do we perhaps need to investigate this further first, so that we know what the pros and cons of such a choice might be or how it should take shape? I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the transparency of donations. It's important. GRECO has been calling attention to this for a long time. My group also believes that we should look further at this. I also see a number of proposals from colleagues on this subject, which go even further than the proposal that the Minister has given a place in the legislative proposal. My group also considers it very important for a democracy at this time that the revenue of the parties is as transparent as possible. You should be as open about that as possible. The same applies to gifts that can come from abroad. The Veling Committee made a very clear choice: simply no longer allow gifts from abroad. We can imagine a great deal of that. We see that the bill offers more room. The concern was, of course, that we do not want any improper influence on foreign actors. I remember that we talked a lot about this in the previous Chamber. I would very much like to know from the Minister whether under the current legislative proposal it is now unthinkable that Russian money would be donated to a Dutch political party via a legal person in Hungary. Let me give you an example that, I think, is not fictitious. I would very much like to know whether such situations are excluded under this bill. If that is not the case, what amendments have been tabled now, should we support them in order to prevent that? We would find that a very undesirable situation. The original bill was there much earlier in a perhaps a little bit different time than it is now. I believe that the current context should be taken into account. So I would very much like to have a look at that from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a more hypothetical question, but there's one that pops up. We also know that the call for transparency can prevent people from making a donation to a political party. Perhaps it is conceivable that this could lead to a reduction in the revenues of political parties. In this light, I ask how the Minister looks at this, knowing that additional resources have now been provided for the political parties. Up to 2024 that is, by my mind, a sum of EUR 9 million, but after 2024 that is a lower amount. Is it possible in that light that you would continue that? I put it very deliberately as a question because I would like to hear the Minister's response. Maybe I'm thinking too gloomy, but maybe there's a real concern in it too. Mr. Chairman. I conclude by wishing this minister, whom I am experiencing for the first time in the debate, a great deal of blessing and wisdom in the task she is allowed to perform, in the mother department, in the heart of public administration. I look forward to working together, including with all my colleagues here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u328	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. It may not have been your maiden speech, but let me say it's good to have you back. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u329	Thank you, Mr President. As a last speaker, I would like to stress that we are talking today about something very important, namely the way in which we prevent the buying of influence, the way in which we protect our democratic process, how we ensure that political parties do not come to their views in an unfair way. There is rightly a lot of criticism of the Netherlands. The funding of political parties is hardly regulated and we are fences in Europe, which Transparency International rightly points out. The Animal Party therefore welcomes the fact that many of the points made by the Veling Committee have been taken over, but it can be made clearer. I would also like to express my appreciation to those Members who have made very good proposals. As far as donations are concerned, we absolutely must avoid false constructions. It must be completely transparent whose donations come from. Donations by foundations and associations still seem to encourage false constructions. We have Mrs Leijten's amendment, which is trying to prevent this. The Animal Party is also in favour of this. My question to the Minister is how she has made the decision to still allow donations from foundations and associations. I miss that consideration in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the much-discussed subject: the maximum amount. The Animal Party has also received large sums in the past. We also see that we have done so within the framework of the law and that we have done so in a transparent way, but we see that these amounts are growing. That is why we think it is time for a maximum amount. We think it goes a long way in this respect, and I have also pointed out in interruptions that for people who have been sparing and at the end of their lives, the government determines how much they can donate to a political party that is at their heart. The Party for Animals sees no democratic problem in assessing inheritances and bequests in a different way, provided that this is transparent. As far as we are concerned, this creates a more level playing field in the sense that you have more choice and different possibilities for financing, in a transparent way. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that. Finally, Mr President. In a democracy, it is also very important that the local voice is well represented and that there is no dubious sponsorship. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples of this lately, also in the context of the municipal elections. In any case, that appearance is sometimes awakened. That is why we wholeheartedly support Mrs Leijten's amendment on extending the scope of the law. But I also wonder very much why the Minister has not chosen to extend the scope and also apply this law to local parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u330	Thank you. This has put an end to the first-term examination of this bill on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u331	I think it has been a sensible decision, in advance, not to finish or continue this debate tonight. The aim is to re-plan the debate next week. That is probably the case. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her presence, the attentive listening and her patience. I want to thank all the support from the Chamber. Thank you also to all the group staff who were here late and to those who are no longer in the public gallery but have followed this at home. That concludes the sitting, but not after I have given Mr Omtzigt the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u332	A number of technical questions have been asked about the amendments. If it were possible for the Ministry to give a number of answers by Friday, we would also have opportunities to adapt something. I'm just looking at what's possible. This is some kind of effort question, not some kind of obligation. Well, that's an advantage we can use. It is quite difficult how certain solutions work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u333	Perhaps the Minister could say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u334	Thank you for the opportunity to say something right now. I heard a number of technical things come back to the debate, such as the question of whether it has gone through well and that sort of thing. I can imagine that we are giving back these kinds of technical matters that we say are not yet fully reflected in the legislative proposal. That does not directly say anything about my assessment of the content of the amendments. I'm gonna take a look at my colleague, too. As far as technology is concerned, I think we should be able to give back a number of things. A certain amendment should indeed be extended in a number of other articles. It's kind of nice that that's linked back when we're having the debate. It just seems to me very good to do so, because that makes the amendments that are here fit in at least with the legislative proposal. Then there can be no problematic situation later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u335	Thank you for that. We are not going to discuss this anymore. It could have been that we would have done that right away tonight. Thank you for this commitment. Mrs. Van der Plas, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u336	Yeah, it's short. I totally understand that we're only doing the first term of the Chamber, you know. We are also dealing with staff in the Chamber, who should also be able to take their rest. But last week we also had the situation where it was decided that a debate would be held in two parts, when it would actually be held in one go. I then called on other groups to ask a small group to postpone, for example, a committee debate when next week comes, because those debates are actually getting more, to be a little too generous and to say: we can imagine it. Because for small groups it is just very difficult. It is already difficult to attend many debates, but especially if there are more debates because they are split up. That is actually my only request to Members to make that possible within their group. We do not often ask for a postponement, but sometimes we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-tweedekamer-21.u337	You made the call. Thank you for that. Then I'll close the meeting for this day.
