ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 35934, Amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap en de Wet op de informatie- en de securitydiensten 2017, as well as of the Rijkswet of 10 February 2017, amending the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap in relation to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interest of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the rulers to this Chamber and wish them every success and wisdom in their new office. We are discussing today a proposal aimed at extending the jurisdiction without prior criminal conviction to withdraw the Dutch citizenship of compatriots who have joined a terrorist organisation abroad. The aim of this proposal is to make our country safer. I am only going to say that my group is very critical of this proposal. And we're not alone in that. The DA and the AIVD are critical. NGOs and other experts such as the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Human Rights College, the Meijers Committee and the Asser Institute all express their deep concern about the justification and consequences of the proposal. And not just that. There is also an evaluation of the WODC showing that it cannot be established that this scheme has contributed to an increase in national security. That was precisely the purpose of this law in 2017. Of course, my group agrees with this importance of security, but my group often points out that, even now, we are discussing a proposal on which none of the parties involved in the implementation is positive, on which experts are extremely critical and on which efficiency and legality are strongly questioned. And yet, because of political opportunity, it is likely to reach a majority in this Chamber. I can't tell you how surprised I am. That does not alter the fact that I will peel off the proposal in accordance with our core tasks and will check on the quality of the legislation. Mr. Chairman. First, the necessity and effectiveness of this bill. The Council of States is adamant. The situation is less threatening compared to its introduction in 2017, and the current criminal law instruments provide more opportunities for early action against terrorism. In that context, an extension of this competence is not necessary. Nor does the public prosecutor and the AIVD and the CTIVD and WODC evaluations give a positive opinion on the results of this law. As has been said, it cannot be established that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship has contributed to national security. How can it, I ask the directors, that we interpret these evaluations as a basis for extending the power? And can they explain who thinks this law is a good idea? On which opinions and reports do they base this? My group is also critical of removing the role of the CTIVD. I refer to Mr Recourt on this point, and I would like to add that briefly. Several experts, as well as the AIVD, point out that the outcome of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship on national security is in a broad sense limited because the potential threat posed by the person is not removed. Someone can still pose a real danger in the field of illegality. Several experts also point out that the withdrawal of the Netherlands is a possible security problem for other countries, by the traveller staying in the original destination country, or transiting to the country of second nationality. One of these experts, Laura van Waas, says about this: a person of dual nationality becomes a game in a race who can first take away citizenship, where the loser gets the citizen. Can the rulers reflect on this ruling? I assume that the rulers agree with my group that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship amounts to shifting the responsibility of this person to other countries. After all, we are simply throwing the problem across the border. I'd like to put a question to that. Is it not in a rule of law that we ourselves bear responsibility for our own citizens, and if we have jurisdiction, also for the trial of the offences they commit, whether they have a double or a single nationality? Mr. Chairman. A point of concern for my group is the fact that withdrawal can take place without prior judicial review. This does happen afterwards, but that is not enough as a guarantee in a rule of law and it is contrary to Article 8 of the Treaty on the restriction of statelessness and Article 13 of the ECHR. In addition, there is the fact that the proposal will undermine detection and prosecution. My group believes it is very important that terrorists should be punished for their actions, but precisely that this proposal complicates them. As a result of the withdrawal and the related undesirable statement, the criminal case against the suspect ends, the international alert ends and the suspect withdraws from the eyes of the foreign investigation authorities. The prosecution clearly states that this arrangement does not adequately address the interests of investigation and prosecution. Furthermore, the WODC evaluation shows that in 17 cases where the D.A. saw objections and sought priority for detection and prosecution, the withdrawal was not waived. Can the directors explain why the importance of detection and prosecution is subordinated to withdrawal? My question is: are the rulers trying to change this? Can they promise that it will be more primacy in the investigation and prosecution, and therefore more in the prosecution? Mr. Chairman. Another fundamental objection from my group is the unequal treatment in this proposal. It will apply to people with a double or multiple nationality, but not to people with only Dutch nationality. The Meijers Commission, the Institute of Statelessness and Inclusion, the College of Human Rights and the Asser Institute indicate that the application of this measure to persons of multiple nationality alone is contrary to the prohibition of discrimination contained in the Constitution, the ECHR and the IVBPR. I think that's a lot. The possibility of withdrawal essentially creates two layers of citizenship. It is important to recognise that people with multiple nationality are more likely to have a migration background. In the Netherlands, for example, double nationality is common among Turkish-Dutch and Dutch-Moroccan people. These groups are therefore disproportionately affected by this measure. The identification of such two-track citizenship should also be seen in the wider context of discrimination and marginalisation of people with a migration background. This measure strengthens such exclusion, both in rhetoric and in the political climate. Can the directors explain why, after all we have seen with SyRI, with the surcharge scandal and with the tax authorities' fraud list, they are still sticking to the measure that is clearly discriminatory? Can they include the fact that both the UN Special Rapporteur on Racism and the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe warn about the discriminatory and stigmatising effects of this measure on minority groups in the Netherlands? This proposal means that when two neighbors born in the Netherlands travel together to the caliphate, one with a double and the other only with a Dutch nationality, both are subject to a different regime. Those who have a double nationality will not enter the Netherlands anymore and the other will. What justifies this difference, I ask the rulers. Shouldn't everyone in a rule of law be treated in the same way? Mr President, I shall conclude. The present proposal is weak in its justification and worrying in its possible consequences. The various experts are extremely critical. In fact, no one is in favour of this proposal, OM and AIVD. Why is it, then, the question that lives with my group? It is a political wish that must be achieved at all costs, even if evaluations and consultations do not recommend it. Why are we still asking for this input, is my question, if we are always putting it aside? In this Chamber, we must ensure the quality of legislation and look at its necessity, efficiency and enforcement. This proposal does not meet these criteria. It is also discriminatory in nature and will further strengthen xenophobia. My group will therefore not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. Mr Arbouw on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u5	I have a question for Mrs Veldhoen. It speaks of discrimination because it is measured by double standards. Is she then in favour, as the English do, of making no distinction in the end, so that people can become stateless?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u6	This is a bit of reversing the problem, but thanks for the question. The fact that a person should not become stateless cannot justify discrimination. That is how my group approaches the proposal. The English example is not much better, but that does not change the fact that in the Netherlands too, discrimination is contrary to the Constitution, the ECHR and the IVBPR. The prevention of statelessness cannot justify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u7	I note that Mrs Veldhoen considers the issue of discrimination to be more important than our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u8	That's an assumption I don't agree with. As has been said, my group considers national security to be very important. But that is precisely what the evaluations say that it cannot be established that it has been improved. So when I make that assessment, I say: no, this proposal does not justify that discrimination at all, because it has not been established that the Netherlands has become safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mr. Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u10	It is about the scientific justification of whether a particular measure has an effect. Our group has a different opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u11	The evaluation is clear. It is quite clear that it cannot be established that this measure has made the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. Mrs Bezaan has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by welcoming and congratulating the Minister of Justice and Security and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration on their new position. We are already on our way, but this is for you both your first debate in office in this Chamber. Mazel tov! Today we are discussing the proposal to extend the possibility of withdrawing Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. A bill that the PVV Group is moderately positive about. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is a major intervention, but sometimes essential for national security. For example, radical Muslims who have joined jihadist organizations that commit all kinds of atrocities during conflicts, including in the Middle East. Then I'm talking about brutal beheadings, rapes, women with broken skulls due to stoning and men with broken bones after they've been thrown off buildings because they're gay. And so there are many more examples. Mr. Chairman. It is our duty to protect the Dutch from such people who have drowned in evil. This bill will help with that. The legal return of extravagants becomes impossible if it is good and a possible illegal return is made difficult. But everything falls or stands with strict implementation and enforcement. Although the Minister believes that this bill is working, the PVV Group is deeply concerned that children of jihad-goers have become some kind of leverage to bring back adults, with all possible consequences for the safety of our country and its citizens. Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, the law is therefore applied as far as possible in order to minimise the chances of return of jihadgoers. In addition, the loss of Dutch citizenship and possible persecution abroad is a more severe punishment than the few years in prison imposed in the Netherlands in the event of persecution. Can the Minister guarantee that this law will end bringing in jihad-goers? I'd like an explanation. Moreover, the effectiveness of this law cannot be separated from the ongoing mass immigration from often Islamic countries. The Freedom Party has therefore been advocating the closure of borders for immigrants from these countries for years. Mr. Chairman. Does the present proposal go far enough as far as PVV is concerned? No, I'm afraid not. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is only possible if the person concerned does not become stateless. And where the original bill deleted the horizon clause, so that this power would become permanent, it has unfortunately been reduced by amendment to five years. Another amendment increases the minimum age for withdrawal from 16 to 18 years. Our group regrets that, too. Because, let's face it, 16-year-olds are already supposed to be able to decide on all kinds of important matters. There are even parties who want to give 16-year-olds the right to vote. So you can assume that they know how, for example, the jihadist organizations that want to join are working. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that this bill does not go far enough, I will give a positive advice to my group. I would like to reiterate to the Minister that this law falls or stands with strict implementation and enforcement, and I would like to give that to the Secretary of State, to a large extent depending on the asylum policy pursued. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Mr Recourt has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is as uncomfortable to me as it is to the rulers; I am also here for the first time. We're all gonna make this a new home. The grey back is still getting used to; something can improve on that. But that aside. The emergence of the so-called caliphate and the terrible terrorist attacks in Europe called for action from society. It was a scary time. Fear was also among the group of Dutch whose faith was abused by the extremists. The social debate hardened. The law we're discussing today is a remnant of that time. It was a temporary law that is now in danger of becoming quite permanent. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship at the time was a measure that led people to believe that the problem of dangerous recurring jihadists had been solved. However, it is more likely that this law now poses more problems than it offers solutions: practical problems and fundamental problems. To start with that last one. The withdrawal of citizenship, in conjunction with an unwanted declaration, is the deletion by the Dutch government of its own nationals. The problem is being skipped over the fence. This is not only a licence of inability, but also a violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. It is the foundation that the government is responsible for its own citizens. It is the foundation for the government to judge its own citizens, even if they do terrible things. Serious crimes cannot go unpunished. This can only be waived in very exceptional cases. As far as that situation was concerned, within the framework of the IS State, it is no longer there. The Act to withdraw Dutch citizenship only affects people with two passports. Mr Veldhoen has already spoken about this. For example, we know that you cannot give up Moroccan nationality at all. A Dutchman with only Dutch nationality, who has committed atrocities in Syria and Iraq, is therefore treated differently than a Dutchman with two nationalities. Mr. Chairman. Does the Dutchmanship represent something else for different citizens? And how does the possibility of withdrawing Dutch citizenship from one population group relate to the principle of equality? From a legal point of view, it may well be acceptable, with a somewhat difficult construction, but is everything that is legally possible also desirable? Then the more practical side. What happens to people whose nationality has been revoked? They often do not travel to the country of their remaining nationality, but stay in the region. They have been deprived of the possible course of justice under the rule of law and Iraqi, Kurdish and Syrian courts do not wish to bring them to justice. The Netherlands also does not want these courts to try them, because they use the death penalty. Then what do we want? We want to get rid of the problem and we want to get rid of those who have committed terrible acts. But reality shows us that this approach offers no guarantee of safety. For a long time, our Kurdish allies have been calling on European countries to pick up and bring their inhabitants to justice. This is happening through the Netherlands, it is very sensitive and it does not score politically. Recently, however, we have been able to see exactly what the Kurdish fighting groups warned the Netherlands all along: thousands of captured IS soldiers rebelled in the Syrian state of Hasaka, and several dozen IS fighters escaped. Experts warn that it is unsustainable to allow some 12,000 prisoners in the Northwest of Syria, Kurdish territory, to remain in a hopeless situation. The danger of so-called sleeper cells and the risk of major IS members breaking out is causing increasing security risks. The Minister of Justice and Security must take into account the security of other countries and the risk of further radicalisation when considering the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Does the government believe that withdrawing Dutch citizenship will help to maintain hopeless detention in Northeast Syria? And does the government agree that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship here can lead to indirect and long-term damage, including to our Kingdom? Mr. Chairman. We have previously been in favour of considering the desirability of renouncing nationality. In the meantime, times have changed. IS no longer has any significant territory. In the meantime, we know that the measure has been applied only slowly and poorly evaluated. We know that these matters do not say anything about the longer-term impact on the security of the Netherlands and its allies. We do have some serious concerns about this. That makes the threshold for voting for this law a lot higher. In addition, we now know that if there is a need for legislation, new legislation can be dealt with quickly by Parliament. By letter dated 2 November 2021, the CTIVD warned that the criterion "interest of national security' should be clearly interpreted. He also pointed out in that letter that her role as supervisor of the National Security Guard Service, the AIVD, seems to have been played out. This is perhaps just in the light of what we are discussing today, bad news. Even less control where legal protection is already compromised. Can the Minister explain why the CTIVD is no longer given a role when it comes to the Dutch Federation Act? What kind of auditor does he now have a view on all the information that lies under a decision to deprive the Netherlands of its status? Finally, Mr President. By depriving rights, the cabinet hopes to continue to solve a complex problem easily. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the government should take responsibility. It is undesirable to leave behind its allies and other countries with people who continue to pose a danger in the region, and it is undesirable to maintain a delete button for a small part of their own nationals and not want to publicly judge very serious acts within their own national community. Yeah, they're terrorists, but they're our terrorists, and they can't go unpunished. For the pragmatics among us: this probably doesn't make the Netherlands any safer either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mr Dittrich has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations to both members of the government on behalf of the D66 Group. I hope we'll see both of us regularly in this house with good legislative proposals. Which brings me straight to this bill. In order to protect national security against Dutch people who have joined a terrorist organisation abroad, this bill extends by five years the possibility for the Minister to withdraw from the Netherlands and at the same time declare the person undesirable. There are three terrorist organisations on the list to which the law applies. Mr. Chairman. When my group looks at this bill, the main question that concerns us is: what does the government really mean by 'national security'? Terrorism is not limited to national borders and is internationally branched. With all kinds of means of communication, people suspected of terrorism can endanger the security of others everywhere. The consequence of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship and the junk declaration is that the person cannot or at least is very difficult to return to the Netherlands, but has it created a safe situation? As far as my group is concerned, anyone who has committed terrorist activities must be punished for this. We must not promote impunity, because that puts the axe at the root of the international legal order. That international legal order is protected by our Constitution in Article 90, and we would like to take this seriously. Isn't the government looking too narrowly at the concept of national security? In 17 of the 21 cases, the Public Prosecutor has advised not to withdraw the Dutchmanship, but to try the Dutchman here in our country. However, the Minister did not accept that opinion and did withdraw and declare it undesirable. Can the Minister tell us whether the persons concerned or elsewhere have been tried? We know that no ISIS fighters have been tried internationally or in the region. In these situations, why does the Minister not choose to have these people tried in the Netherlands? This will prevent impunity and erosion of the international legal order. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship and the junk declaration cross a trial in the Netherlands. The D.A. had objections to that. Can the Minister indicate whether there is any early contact with the Public Prosecutor to prevent the prosecution from wasting a lot of time and manpower in a case that the prosecutor could actually spend on other matters? There have also been situations in which the Dutchmanship was withdrawn, but the undesirable statement was suspended, so that the person could still be brought to the Netherlands to be tried here. How many times has that happened? Has the Dutch court somehow taken into account the loss of Dutch citizenship in the judgment? I also ask whether the Minister does not think that this is the right situation, namely to bring someone to the Netherlands to try them here, i.e. to suspend the loss of Dutch citizenship or, at least, of the unwanted declaration. Several countries have similar legislation to that of the Dutch. Then there could be a very strange mechanism. Suppose, a terrorist has Dutch but also French nationality, has joined IS in Syria and is engaged in terrorist activities there. When France withdraws its French nationality, it only leaves the Dutch. Because we are not allowed to make people stateless, Dutch nationality can no longer be withdrawn. The French measure does not, in the reasoning of the Dutch Government, promote Dutch national security, but that goes exactly the other way around. The French will not appreciate the Dutch withdrawal. In other words, if the focus is to keep the problem outside national borders and to pretend that it promotes national security, a kind of rat race may arise between countries, but that has nothing to do with promoting national security, including promoting the international legal order. As far as the D66 group is concerned, the focus should be on the trial and punishment of terrorists. I would like to ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to reflect on this in their reply. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with Western countries the primacy of trial and not throw the problem over each other's fence, so: international cooperation? Mr. Chairman. With interest, the D66 Group awaits the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I congratulated the Prime Minister and his entire cabinet last week during the debate on the declaration of government, but that does not prevent the individual rulers from once again being congratulated on the occasion. Mr. Chairman. This week we are debating temporary laws in the First Chamber which do not always appear to be temporary. Now, of course, everything is temporary in life, including life itself, but this temporaryity of laws is emerging and deserves special attention from our rule of law. In particular, because in my group's view, 'temporary' should be limited to something that is not intended to become permanent, otherwise you must take care of it permanently. Nevertheless, the consequences of temporary laws can also be particularly difficult, as is the case with the legislative proposal we are discussing today, namely the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. A temporary law with severe consequences requires a heavy legal balance as to whether temporaryity is desirable. I was therefore greatly surprised that in the note following the report, the reason for the extension now before us is that the House of Representatives preferred an extension rather than a permanent law. For this reason, an amendment to that effect has been given by the Cabinet. That is actually embarrassing in substance. There is no evidence that the cabinet has made a state-of-the-art assessment of whether there are objections to continue to include such far-reaching measures as the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in a temporary law. Has this balance been made, I ask the rulers, or have we reached the age when the rule of law has hit the second plan? In substance, almost all experts say: do not do this. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office indicates that the prosecution and trial stand in the way. In the note following the report, the State Secretary also states that it must be established that the effectiveness of the instrument and its effects on national security are not numerically expressed. But protecting national security was the whole purpose and purpose of this law, I ask the rulers. The protection of national security is the basis for the application of this law, and this cannot be quantified. So what is the basis for this extension? An idea, a feeling, a statement? The implementation and effectiveness and therefore the proportionality of a law is what we have to assess here in the Upper House. I note that the cabinet itself indicates that this effectiveness is evidently lacking. The justification is therefore extremely weak. The directors point out the findings of the WODC, which show that none of the persons whose Dutch citizenship had been withdrawn at the time of the investigation had legally returned to the Kingdom. That is already where the added value lies, the rulers say. But that is a misconception, because it is not certain that these people wanted to return to the Netherlands at all. That support is therefore lacking and has been sought as far as my group is concerned. My group believes that criminals, including terrorists, should be tracked, prosecuted, tried and, if found guilty, punished. I know it's even simpler in the VVD election programme. "Whoever behaves criminally deserves punishment," but I've expanded it a little bit. Yet the rulers let go of that starting point. However, when considering whether to withdraw in an individual case, their position is not decisive as to whether there are possibilities under criminal law. Punishment of criminal behavior is an option for the cabinet. It is not that for my group. Also, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is not possible in the case of persons of Dutch nationality alone. I would like to remind the rulers, as others have done, once again of what the Meijers Committee says about this. This calls for all Dutch citizens with or without dual nationality to be held responsible in the same way for their involvement in terrorist activities, primarily through criminal investigation and prosecution, and also through administrative measures which can be applied without distinction, such as the holding of passports of potential extra-nationals. My question to the rulers is why they completely ignore this advice and so many other opinions that argue against this bill. Mr President, concluding. The WODC cannot answer the question whether the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship has contributed to a reduction in the threat of terrorist activities by members of jihadist organisations on Dutch territory and thereby to an increase in national security. There's no answer. The CTIVD also has doubts about its effectiveness. It is not certain whether the imposition of the measure will have the desired effect. The concerns of the AIVD are also mentioned. Add to that the negative opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the findings of the Meijers Commission, all of which are opposed to the unsubstantiated arguments of the rulers, who themselves state that there is no numerical basis for the effectiveness of this bill. That makes it very doubtful, let alone that it is possible to prove whether this bill does what the rulers intend to do with it. That is what we in this Chamber should judge. Mr. Chairman. I await the response of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr President, thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would also like to extend a warm welcome to both leaders. I wish you a great deal of joy in your office, in your wisdom, and I say this with great emphasis on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then to the bill. A landing plane and a call a little later with the announcement "We got him." Two moments I'll never forget. Not long ago, a very serious criminal offence had been committed in the vicinity of The Hague, which was investigated by a detective team and by me as a district attorney. Literally day and night work was done on the matter; it was so serious. Soon the suspect appeared to have taken the neighborhood abroad, but at some point we got information that he would, perhaps temporarily, return. One Sunday night it was time. At a police station, we tracked over the Internet the flight where our suspect was on board. Shortly after the landing, the Marechaussee called me with the redeeming announcement: "We have him." The arrest was a fact. Mr. Chairman. It may be naive for me, a little silly perhaps, but at no time have I considered that it would be better for the safety of citizens in this country if that suspect had stayed abroad and if he had been prevented from boarding that plane. Frankly, I did not detect such a reaction from the government when some time ago two prime suspects in the Marengo trial were arrested in distant foreign countries and were eventually transferred to the Netherlands. Speaking of national security! The absurd feeling of which the previous one is an illustration is still not getting my group down in terms of the legislative proposal we are discussing. The fight against terrorism can count on generous support from our side, but we still have big questions about this bill. I would like to highlight some of the main points. The starting point for my group is that Dutch people who participate in a terrorist organisation should be arrested, brought to the Netherlands and tried if necessary. In response to written questions from this Chamber, the Secretary of State also expresses his strong commitment to trial and to the prevention of impunity and to trial, preferably in the region. But two lines later he acknowledges: "There are currently no options to bring ISIS fighters to justice internationally or in the region." Well, then, isn't impunity the only possible consequence of putting the national front door on the night lock? A little against my better judgment in asking the cabinet, on behalf of my group, whether national security and the rule of law would no longer benefit much from the detection, prosecution, trial, execution of an imposed sentence and then, if necessary, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under Article 14 (2) (b) of the Rijkswet and junk declaration. Mr. Chairman. Article 7 of the European Convention on Nationality mentions some situations in which States are exceptionally allowed to withdraw a person's nationality. The volunteering for foreign military service is such a situation. Our state law adds that it must be a state involved in combat against the Kingdom or an alliance of which the Kingdom is a member. Another exception is behaviour which seriously harms the essential interests of the State. Given the far-reaching consequences of the withdrawal of nationality, this calls for an intrusive, as far as we are concerned, pre-trial judicial review and the application of clear and high thresholds. In the light of the Treaty, what is the government's view of the proportionality and subsidiarity of this bill? I would ask the cabinet to be more specific in its response than in the much repeated reply so far that withdrawal takes place only if it is necessary in the individual case, in the interests of national security. As far as legal protection is concerned, too, my group still has reservations. In a professional case that we led the cabinet as an example, the judge could not see the underlying documents of the AIVD, because the lawyer did not think he was allowed to do so. The judge then held that this remained at the plaintiff's risk and stated that "the court should, on the basis of the foregoing, assume the accuracy of the notice'. I ask the directors: how does that relate to the cabinet's statement that 'any decision to withdraw, without exception, is fully and without reservation reviewed by the administrative judge'? Isn't a verdict like this in stark contrast to the legal protection enjoyed by a person as a suspect in a criminal case? Mr. Chairman. My final question concerns the advice given by the Public Prosecutor's Office prior to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Under no circumstances has the public prosecutor's opinion on a proposed revocation decision been followed so far. Our question to the Secretary of State to give a very specific explanation of what this was about, so under what circumstances these opinions would have been or will be followed, has not yet been answered in substance. I am putting this question on the table again. With unabated interest, my group looks forward to the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. I call Mr Doornhof, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In examining the proposal for the law, which is now being requested to be extended, my party colleague and then MP Marnix van Rij referred to the recent attacks in France, Belgium and Germany. He said it demonstrated how our free Western society is threatened by the brutal terrorism of ISIS and related organisations. I can now, unfortunately, add countries, namely the United Kingdom, Sweden, Spain and Austria. In the Netherlands we all have the attack in Utrecht in 2019 with four dead and six wounded on the retina. According to the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, the jihadist movement is currently leading to radicalisation of individuals. That movement is a threat to national security. Mr. Chairman. In the light of all this, my group agrees with this bill. Our national security must be protected. The question is even whether the bill goes far enough. My group has mixed feelings about the amendment by the House of Representatives to make the power to withdraw Dutch citizenship temporary again. In fact, the original legislative proposal was to give that power a permanent character after five years, now. Mr. Chairman. Today we formally meet two new rulers. On behalf of my group, I wish them every success in their new job. In the case of the Minister for Justice and Security, she was responsible in her previous life with her then colleague Van Toorenburg for a motion asking for that power to be made permanent. The first question I would like to put to the cabinet in broad terms is therefore how it looks at the amendment of the bill. Mr. Chairman. In any case, my group believes that, when we look at the NCTV's threat images, we must continue to arm ourselves against terrorism. You can imagine that people with a Dutch passport will join terrorist organisations in other parts of the world in the future. If you always find these powers necessary, the quality of legislation means that you provide for permanent rather than temporary powers. That argument is in line with what Mr Janssen said. Only our group is making the choice just the other way. The House of Representatives did not choose to do so. He said, "Let's make it temporary again." An important argument was the opinion of the Council of State. That opinion refers to the sounds from the Public Prosecutor's Office, namely that you can only prosecute suspects properly if those suspects can actually come to the Netherlands. But the government has an appropriate response to the case law of the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State. The Administrative Court section says that the government can quite rightly take the view that a temporary lifting of the junk declaration, accompanied by the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, will enable the person concerned to attend his criminal proceedings in the Netherlands. In the opinion of the Administrative Court, the Office's objections are thus sufficiently taken into account in the assessment. Here's the thing. There is a letter from the Minister of 25 January to the House of Representatives, in which she says: we are still exploring the options when it comes to international trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u24	My colleague mentions a number of comments from others, but my question is what the CDA Group itself thinks. Does the CDA group now agree that trial in the Netherlands, and therefore the temporary lifting of that junk declaration, should be the starting point and that there should be a trial, or do you follow the cabinet, which says: no, gone; we will not let anyone in and we will not try anything at all? What is your position in that regard, since otherwise the argument put forward by the Administrative Court Department would be right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you for Janssen's question. This brings me directly to what I had begun with, namely the letter from the Minister to the House of Representatives on 25 January, in which all the emphasis is placed on the exploration, which is still taking place, of options for getting to that international trial. You will then say: yes, but I am more or less giving you the question of black and white with national security on the one hand and trial on the other. You may have noticed in my speech that we do not answer that as black and white as you might think we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u26	But how much longer do you want to think about it? We've been on the road for five years. Then the law can be extended for another five years and then maybe another five years. It's like the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which we're about to talk about. So what's temporary? How long do you want to think about that? We can look at the evaluations, all the comments and the practice, or do you think it will all be very different over the next five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u27	I do not need to think about it, because I am taking the decision on behalf of my group today. In fact, we don't think it goes far enough. We think that now, with everything on the table. Those are the concerns about the problems that still exist about international trial, but also two considerations, namely whether national security should always be subordinate to the prevention of impunity, and what I said about making it possible for suspects to return to the Netherlands by temporarily lifting the junk declaration. Those three things together mean that as far as the CDA group is concerned, you have to say yes to this bill. So there is the open end that you are referring to, and that for your group, as I understand it, is decisive to say no to this law. There were more arguments, but you're talking about your own speech. I'm gonna ask the minister what's going on with the reconnaissance. I do not need to repeat my introduction here, but that open end does not alter the fact that we think that you are actually doing it on a permanent basis now that we are doing it on a temporary basis with those powers and the extension of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u28	I was just nesting on what Mr Doornhof started. After all, he started by mentioning a number of examples, which, by the way, are very valid to me. He mentioned as one of these examples the attack on the tram in Utrecht. Then I was in the meantime brooding from my seat, and I thought: what would Mr Doornhof mean? Would he have wished that Gökmen T. had not been sentenced to life imprisonment here in the Netherlands, but that he had been placed abroad as soon as possible after that attack over any border? How am I supposed to see that? What is the CDA's vision in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u29	I do not need to explain to this fellow Member the distinction between, on the one hand, the criminal approach of someone and, on the other hand, the administrative measure we are talking about. Look, if someone did something like that in the Netherlands and we arrested him, there's nothing else possible but to bring him to justice here in the Netherlands. But we are now working on a proposal that aims at something quite different, namely protecting our society from outside influences in the form of people with a Dutch passport who have shown abroad that they are totally disrupting things. I do not need to repeat Mrs Bezaan's words, who told me what these people have to say. In such a case, you bring together a lot of arguments and you come to the conclusion that you have to take away the passport from that gentleman or lady, but that is of course different from the question you are asking, namely how you look at criminal prosecution of people who have committed a crime here in the Netherlands and who you are taking up at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u30	Then I hope that I have understood Mr Doornhof correctly and that in such a situation his preference and that of his group goes to trial first and then talk about passports again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u31	Absolutely, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen has been making a move for a while when I was talking about the government's announced reconnaissance of that international trial. Actually, it's a reconnaissance that's been going on for a while. That remains, of course, crucial in this debate. I'd like to ask the question as to what's going on with that reconnaissance. Because if, through international cooperation, you can have a criminal trial taking place abroad and you can put those people away when they are convicted, that is, of course, the situation we would all like to go to. I hope the Minister can answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group. No, Mrs. Veldhoen has another interruption for you, Mr. Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr Doornhof has stressed a number of times that it is about national security and that it is enhanced by this proposal. A number of colleagues and I have very clearly argued that the conclusion of the various evaluations is that it cannot be established that national security has been enhanced by this proposal. How can Mr Doornhof insist that this will improve national security?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u36	Of course that is a bit difficult, because then it gets a bit messed up about that WODC-report. On the one hand, researchers say in fairness what they can or cannot investigate. If they say they don't have enough facts to answer certain questions, we have to take them somewhere. It is logical that five years ago it was said: if you have such a law, check as closely as possible whether we have been able to achieve the goal that was set. In today's situation, we find that quite a few passports have been withdrawn. We have at least been able to see that people have not come back legally and we also think that they have stayed away illegally. Well, then you have to say that you can say it's a little tricky the other way around: it didn't help us. We understand that scientists with their professionals say that they cannot say yes to a question that has been asked in full strength. However, my group, with all the arguments I have just put forward, is voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u37	I find this explanation complicated. The purpose of this law was to enhance and improve national security. It is said in the evaluation: at least we have not been able to establish that. You say that people probably didn't return illegally, but I didn't read that in that evaluation either. That hasn't been established. The conclusion is therefore that we cannot establish that safety has improved. That's one thing. But there are a lot of other advices from the DA, the AIVD et cetera; I have already mentioned them all. All these opinions are negative. I wonder what that means to the CDA. I assume that you also take advice from experts from implementing organisations seriously in principle. They're all negative. What does that mean to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u38	On the first point: I will not say much more about that, but I disagree with what Mrs Veldhoen has to say about national security. I just want that marked. Secondly, I must admit that I am quite sensitive to the argument of authority. I don't like criticizing the Council of State's opinions either. In the end, however, the Court itself must weigh up the arguments put forward to say: we do not think it is a good proposal. If you then come up with the argument that we can only bring people to justice here if they come here, which is what the State says, and the government says that they are bringing those people here at the same time, then you must also be sensitive to it. Then you should not say: the mere fact that the D.A. or the Department has said so is an immediate reason to say no to a bill. Of course, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u39	Last time, Mr. Chairman. You say, "the mere fact that the D.A. says so." But all organisations involved in the implementation of this or all organisations that are competent in this matter are negative. I note that the CDA has a political desire to give priority to substantive expertise, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u40	I think that is a statement which does not make any sense, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u41	I don't think you'll agree. Then it is time for Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. On 1 March, the power to withdraw from the Netherlands of travellers who have joined a terrorist organisation shall lapse if necessary on the basis of national security. This law was introduced in 2017 in response to the Syrians who joined the terrorist organisation IS or other terrorist organisations. On 12 November 2020 the Yeşilgöz-Zegerius/Van Toorenburg motion was adopted, which was also mentioned by one of the previous speakers; I had taken it with me. It invites the government to come forward with a proposal to make this law permanent, in the interests of national security, and thus to continue to allow the Dutch to withdraw from the Netherlands. At that time, the Minister of Justice and Security was probably not able to claim that on 21 February 2022 she would be defending the law to which her own motion called in this First Chamber as Minister of Justice and Security, in any case with Mr Van der Burg, whom we had been here until recently as a colleague. However, the legislative proposal is based on an extension of five years and not on a permanent basis, as the then MP Yeşilgöz-Zegerius advocated. We regret that, like some other groups. Surely we think that this is a preventive effect, also for terrorists, to think twice: do I travel to a terrorist area, if I can lose my Dutch identity? That gives the necessary clarity. We see that other temporary legislation is far less difficult to implement and extend laws, but we will be discussing them later today. Mr. Chairman. Our group is in favour of an integrated approach to terrorism. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security is, in our opinion, an instrument which cannot be lacking in this integrated approach, in addition to criminal prosecution and the possibility of declaring the person concerned undesirable stranger in addition to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. According to the government, returners pose a significant potential threat because of the long stay in terrorist groups, the struggle experience, the experience of excessive violence and the prolonged immersion in the violent, jihadist ideology. We share this opinion of the government. As far as our group is concerned, we are not going to bring travellers who have deliberately opted for a jihadist future back to the Netherlands. According to the government's figures, some time ago, over 300 people have travelled to Syria and Iraq in recent years, of which about 65 have returned. We would like to hear an update from the cabinet on these figures. How many travellers have returned per day and what is the state of play with regard to the number of persons concerned whose Dutch citizenship has been withdrawn? Then we'll get to legal protection. The law provides that, in the event of the intention to withdraw the Dutch citizenship, an appeal is made of its own motion to the Administrative Court, with the decision being fully reviewed by the Administrative Court and also open to appeal. From information from a while back, we conclude that the administrative judge in 9 of the 12 cases assessed came to the conclusion that the Dutch were rightly withdrawn. Can the government give us an update on the number of persons whose nationality has been withdrawn and how many have been found lawful by the court after full review? Then we come to the role of the CTIVD, the Commission for the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services. In the decision to withdraw the Dutch citizenship, messages of office of the AIVD are of great importance. We assume that the CTIVD can do its research in the context of the Dutch Revocation Act in the same way as when the services are monitored. Can the government confirm that? In conclusion. Our group supports this bill and calls on the government to remain alert to returning fighters and to intervene in good time where necessary. We look forward to the response of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Arbouw on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, on behalf of my group too, congratulations to the rulers, and to the two fine debates in the First Chamber in our new home, which we all have to get used to. Mr. Chairman. The proposal of state law that we are discussing concerns the extension of the possibility of withdrawing the Dutch citizenship of a person who is outside the Netherlands and who has voluntarily joined an organisation that poses a threat to national security. The current law expires on 1 March, so it is a good thing that we are discussing it today and can also take a decision on it. You will not be surprised that my group is very much in favour of extending this law. And we find it, indeed, also unfortunate that it is not a permanent law. It is an important proposal. And it is urgent not only because of the timeline, but also because of the urgency of the matter. We have to do everything we can to keep our country safe. The last Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands gives a clear description of the threat of jihadism. According to the latest information, there are a total of 110 Dutch extravagants in Syria and Iraq. The fact that ISIS is still active is demonstrated by the prison outbreak of ISIS in January this year in the Kurdish region of Syria, which has been reduced with great difficulty. News is also the threat of jihadists in Mali. And that in the future people want to travel to join terrorist organisations is certainly not unimaginable. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the law is to make legal return of extravagants impossible and to make illegal return difficult. So he or she is also designated as an undesirable stranger. After all, those who decide to join a terrorist organisation abroad and thus turn against our democratic values have no reason or right to return to the Netherlands at any time. This legislative proposal forms part of the overall package of counter-terrorism legislation to keep the Netherlands safe and protect our democratic rule of law, which counteracts all forms of terrorism and extremism, from whatever ideological angle. Can the Minister state what its timeline is for another bill, namely the criminalisation of residence in an area controlled by a terrorist organisation? They are in line with the current proposal for an extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. A question on my part. The international legal order is protected by the Dutch Constitution in Article 90. When you talk about national security, do you consider the fact that it really has to be safer? Only the withdrawal of nationality does not mean that terrorism will stop if someone is not tried and punished. What is Mr Arbouw's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u46	What I just said. Look, the point is that we are making a palette of legislation that is complementary to what we already have in our criminal law, and that you end up with that whole palette, with the different measures you have and which are complementary, making sure that that chance of attacks in the Netherlands is drastically reduced. So that is my first point of reply: that you should not only look at this measure and not judge it sectorally, but that you should consider it as a whole. That is why I was just asking about the other bill, because we have not yet dealt with it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u47	I heard in the answer: safety in the Netherlands. My point is that it is about security in the world, of which the Netherlands is a part. And I'm not in your argument that that part is taken into account by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u48	Oh, yes, I do. I mean, I haven't been a diplomat in Brussels for four years for nothing, so I understand that international context. And I also think that we have a responsibility in this, in our cooperation within the European Union, within NATO. In my view, the cabinet has also indicated that it is also considering the final effects of the choice made on possible insecurity in another country or in a different context, such as Syria. So I'm sure we should. It's also a little bespoke. It is also an individual approach, as we do in the municipalities, and there we see if there is any radicalisation; what measures are needed? This is how we should do it abroad: so if people have travelled that way, see what is then the best way to get that threat down as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u49	My last interruption to this point. I heard you say that we should not zoom in on this measure but look at the overall package. In itself, I can understand that. Only, we now have a bill to judge. The Council of State, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other institutions say that it simply does not meet the objective of the law, namely to increase national security, because we cannot demonstrate that at all with this bill. If everyone else says you can't say this at all, doesn't that mean that you're going on slippery ice when you support this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u50	I get your point. Of course, I've read that, too. But I think we have dealt with more legislative proposals that are quite critical. I think it's our responsibility as a First Chamber to look at it in full. So in the word "integral" it is. I find many opinions very much judged from one's own point of view and sector, and taking too little into account the context of the overall picture. I believe that we as the First Chamber have a duty to look at it as a whole. Then there's the question of whether it's working or not. In fact, you're talking about some kind of ex-post policy evaluation. In ex-post policy evaluations, before you start, you should actually list all the criteria on the basis of which you will be carrying out that evaluation in the future. I think that is exactly what has been discussed in the debate in the House of Representatives: to identify with each other the different criteria by which you want to check the functioning of the new legislative proposal. This will enable us to make a much better assessment of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u51	I would simply like to distance myself from the argument that the Council of State, for example, looks very sectoral. No, the Council of State is looking broadly at a bill and how it fits into an overall palette of measures. I cannot therefore support that part of your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u52	I think Mr Doornhof has just said something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would like to refer to what Mr Arbouw says about the fact that we often have legislative proposals before us about which all experts or implementing organisations are negative, and that we then adopt them. That is exactly the point I have also tried to make in my first term: we should not do that anymore, because we have seen that it leads to accidents. Look at nitrogen, SyRI and the supplemental affair. At that time, various organisations warned, already at the beginning of the legislative process. How do you look at that? Wouldn't it be time for us to listen to these experts and implementation organisations better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u54	If you get those oppositions, then I think it is also our job to think about them for longer and to dig further, so that we can finally have a well-argued debate here. So you have to take it extra seriously when those signals are there. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u55	But what does "taking extra seriously" mean if we finally put it aside because there is a political will to adopt the proposal? So what is the value of asking for those advice? Can we not stop doing so just as well when we say at the end of the day: the political will is there and the opinions we put aside, because this is what we as a Chamber or party like? I would therefore like to know what value you attach to such opinions as you say: politically, I do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u56	We certainly see the importance of having proper consultation with the parties concerned on the underlying issues when weighing up. You have to look at those points in each other's context and assess them in full. That's our role. In the end, my group's view is not that this is a purely political decision. Our opinion is that we have some kind of moral obligation to improve national security. In the next part of my speech I would like to comment on this. If you have spoken to the people who were at the airport in Brussels and you know that by bus a terrorist was on his way to Schiphol Airport to commit an attack... We have a duty to ensure that legislation does not happen to our country and that it becomes safer. The substance of our group's proposal in its assessment is therefore the most important, rather than the purely political debate you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u57	Honestly, I'm a little dizzy. You say that we are making this assessment because national security is paramount, but my group also considers national security to be extremely important. That is why we do not approve of this proposal, because the experts and the evaluation say that it cannot be demonstrated that it increases safety. On the contrary, the prosecution says the prosecution is in the way. In fact, it does not make it any safer. Then I wonder on what basis you think safety is improving.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u58	This has already been highlighted in the debate with Mr Doornhof. If we believe that persecution is necessary in certain situations, then there are opportunities in this law to do so and to ensure that it is done. There is international work to see if the trial can take place in the region. You make it black and white when we say there are possibilities. You can do customization with personalized approach. We are confident that with the pallet of legislation we are making, we are ultimately better protecting national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u59	Last time, Mr. Chairman. You say that the whole pallet will ultimately make the Netherlands safer, but even the Public Prosecutor says that in seventeen cases they have asked to prosecute instead of withdrawing, but they simply do not listen to it. In this respect, therefore, the measures that could make the Netherlands safer are not being listened to. Anyway, I'll leave it at that. It's clear how you make that weighting, and it's different than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u60	I actually heard Mr Arbouw say on behalf of the VVD: first of all, and for the rest, we do not think it is so important what is happening abroad. That's the explicit choice that's being made. But my question is this. You talk about a pallet of measures all the time. If we look at the unproven effectiveness of this bill, how many legislative proposals does Mr Arbouw think he will need in that pallet to arrive at an approach that has any effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u61	Now you're making it a caricature. If you read what the WODC writes about this bill correctly, it is indeed not scientifically proven. That's clear. But on the other hand, you can conclude from the reasoning of "look at the effects and exclude a number of things" that it does have an effect and steps have been taken. It is not the case that this legislative proposal that we are debating now has no effect and would only work in the pallet. No, my reasoning is the other way around. I say that, in our opinion, this legislation does make sense, and this is also evident from the examples we have seen. We certainly need to improve the evaluation, because it is important to be able to make a better weighting on the basis of good information in the event of permanent renewal or renewal. We are, of course, in favour of this. The ultimate effect of the overall package ensures that we keep the Netherlands safer and we can prevent this kind of horrific attack as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u62	Of course, it is always easy to refer to atrocious attacks. This is about this law and about the effect it has. That is why my question was: how many of these low-effect laws are needed to achieve an effective approach? I can't get an answer to that. Mr Arbouw talks about the pallet and the larger bandage, but I am very curious to see how wide that pallet should be and what it expects effect from. Before you reach 100% or 50% with very limited percentages, you need a lot of laws to come to something. Finally, my specific question is this: Mr Arbouw says that we need to look at what needs to be done over the next five years with better evaluations. Can the VVD imagine that there will be a moment to say: it is now clear that this has so little effect that we should not do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u63	Of course, we are always willing to look closely at evaluations. My firm conviction is that this measure is really important, because it is really complementary to what can currently be done in criminal law. I'll go into that in the second part of my story. Some of my colleagues indicated that we are very fast in making legislation. Yet it turns out that if you don't have this as an instrument in your toolbox, you're late again and you can't do some things you should have done for the safety of Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. Of course, you only have to withdraw from the Netherlands in exceptional situations. I'm just trying to narrow it down. You don't just do that. You need to change it properly with guarantees. On a case-by-case basis, it is considered whether the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is necessary and whether there are any other measures that are more effective. Of course, the use of criminal law is and remains the primary instrument in the fight against terrorism. But there are certainly situations where the use of criminal law is not sufficiently effective to protect national security and where the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship combined with an undesirable declaration is the only legal means to do so. It is also important that the monitoring of the decision-making process for such a far-reaching measure is organised through a judicial review and as regards supervision through the CTIVD, the Commission for the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services. The VVD Group therefore agrees with the amended continuation of supervision in this law. Mr. Chairman. I also had a bit about the attacks in Paris and Brussels in 2015 and 2016. In both cases, responsibility for those attacks was claimed by returned Syrian fighters. Also in the Netherlands it has been brought forward a number of times already we are spooked by attacks. It is therefore important that we set up our legislation now, in order to reduce the risk of attacks in the future. Those possibilities must be in our legislative toolbox. This will prevent us, if we do not do so, from coming back to the situation where legislation still needs to be designed, so that, in the meantime, travellers will not be covered by this law, as we saw in 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u64	Just to be sure, I hear Mr Arbouw say: for CITVD surveillance. Can I see that across the board, so that the CITVD should continue to supervise the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap? For the CITVD, it is only relevant in terrorism-like situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u65	I think supervision has been modified for this law. I find that quite understandable in itself when you look at where the CITVD is actually from. What exactly is the CITVD overseeing? This is, of course, particularly about the role vis-à-vis the intelligence services. I think it is right that this has been retained in this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u66	It might be a little bit of point and commas. The CITVD itself warns of the danger that the concept of "infringement on national security" may be interpreted too differently, so that everyone does something else. The CITVD says, "Let's be clear about this." The CITVD warns of the danger that the CITVD will no longer be able to do so if another law change continues. Does Mr Arbouw think it is a bad idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u67	Then we have to define exactly what they are of. I would like to remain within this remit and not give them a much wider range of work in another legislation. Everyone has their own role in that supervision. We also have an administrative judge here who subsequently assesses whether a particular measure has been correctly imposed. Everyone has their own thing to do when it comes to good supervision. I think that is now well described in this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u68	I might come back to this in second term. Together, let us listen critically to the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u69	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office. We will continue this debate tomorrow with the first-term response from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-3.u71	I shall suspend the debate and the sitting until 3.40 p.m.
