ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of the Van Kent member temporarily amending the Pension Act and the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act in connection with the introduction of a measure to, inter alia, adjust the discount rate at which pension funds must calculate their pension liabilities (35681). Of course, I would like to welcome the initiator once again in trade-K. He is there supported by Rob de Brouwer, economist and pension expert. It's nice to have you with us and the group member of the SP, Mr Sebastiaan van den Hout. Furthermore, of course, a warm welcome to the Minister, who has been with us for some time. She's an advisor to the petitioner. On 18 May the first term of office took place. Today, the first-term and second-term answers of the Chamber are discussed. Maybe we'll do the second term of the initiator later, but we might as well do it tonight. We'll keep that exciting. That's good; then there's some kind of extra tension in tonight's meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Kent to answer the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you for that, Mr President. Thanks indeed to the support, but also to Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Rooijen, who is also here. This is, of course, a proposal that I was able to accept from 50PLUS. We do this with love and great pleasure, because it is an important proposal. The aim of the SP is that people can stop working on time at a pension that rises with prices. This has been the joint commitment of a long and fierce pension struggle that has been waged. We have also worked a lot together with GroenLinks, the Labour Party and FNV. It was a struggle with a joint effort, namely freezing the AOW age at 66 years, early pension schemes for people with heavy professions or people who simply cannot keep up working, but also indexing for each generation. That was also a common demand. We can argue a long time about the outcome of this struggle, but at least we can see that the AOW age continues to rise and that there is no early retirement scheme after 2025. As far as we are concerned, this evening we are talking about that third, very important demand and commitment, namely the indexing of each generation. Because that too is still farther away than ever before, unfortunately, I say. The agreement has been in place for some time, and in those years it has not been indexed. In fact, in most cases 14 years have not been indexed. There have even been reductions in pensions. In some cases this reduces the purchasing power of pensioners by 30%. Young people and workers building up a pension suffer the same fate. They also have a structure that does not go up against the price, which is not indexed. What's the result of that? When I started working on pensions in 2007, I was a member of my group. I worked for, among other things, Fons Luijben, a former Rabobank director who was then our pension spokesperson. He said to me, "Bart, I don't get it at all. The pension funds are doing very well. They achieve high returns, even in difficult times, and not for a few years, but for decades. But they have to act like they're poor on paper." That was 2007. The pension funds then had about 600 billion in cash. That was already an astronomical amount. Now we are more than 14 years ahead and the pension funds have 1,800 billion and more in cash, a triple of that capital. As far as we are concerned, this is a symbol of what has gone wrong in those 14 or 15 years. In fact, too much has been paid out and too little has been paid out. That's why the pension jars are overcrowded. As a result, pensioners and workers have a pension that has not risen with prices. And because of that, we have an unhealthy and unnecessary stock of money in pension reserves. Then the question is: is the Future Pensions Act going to solve that problem? We will have a lot of debates on this, but one thing we know for sure in advance: it is going to be very expensive to make that transition. The Minister has informed us that it will cost at least 1 billion. There's going to be a huge bill for compensating for the abolition of the way you build up your pension, the average system for the technicians and enthusiasts among us. Of that, a very large account goes to pensioners. Pensions are also becoming more uncertain; they are rising faster and faster, making it an asset for pensioners, but also for future pensioners. It is also important that when we look at the quality of the pension, there is no more promise. My grandfather, who worked at Philips in Eindhoven, had a pension based on his last wage. My father, who works as a teacher, has a pension based on his average wage. The workers of today and of future generations will soon have a pension that is basically no longer based on anything. It will be a premium scheme where money is deposited but there is no agreement and no purpose is set to which it is invested. So it can freeze or thaw; you can be lucky or you can be unlucky. The great fear is that this will lead to an uncertain pension, a bad pension, and also a pension that insurers will be looking at with a great deal of interest. The fear that there will be no indexation in the years to come, but also in the years to come, is great. That fear is not only with the SP Group, but also with all senior organisations. We are very concerned about this, in the sense that pensioners are, of course, a very important group when it comes to discussing the future of our pensions. We see that all senior organisations from small to large are now finally firing this law. The words are clear; there is little Spanish. This concerns not only the organisations that were already critical, such as the KBO-Brabant, but also the ANBO, the KBO-PCOB and the seniors within the FNV: all senior organisations have now come to the conclusion that the law is a very bad idea. That makes this law, which I am defending today, even more important. Especially in such a time of hyperinflation, inflation is pouring out of the claws, it is very important for pensioners that they have the certainty that in the coming years the pension will rise with prices. That's what makes this law possible. This is also very important in view of the discussion that we are going to have in many other places about this Future Pensions Act. This step may mean that there will be more room for discussion about how we deal with the future of our pension. Mr. Chairman. Are we gonna be there when this law is passed? No, absolutely not. I already started with the remark that the SP thinks you should be able to stop working on time, with an indexed pension. There's still a long way to go. In this sense, I would like to mention, for example, the AOW age, which, as far as we are concerned, should be reduced instead of rising, and early pension schemes, which should be possible even after 2025 and should also be much more accessible to people with heavy work compared to the scheme that is currently in place temporarily. But the Pension Act will also have to be amended. I mention the far-reaching control that is needed for pensioners, employees and participants on investment policy and the way in which a pension fund deals with assets. I would also mention the pocket-fillers, the huge salaries paid in the pension sector; this must be stopped. But I also mention the interest rate. The debate on this has been going on for a long time, and that is not for nothing, because there is a key to a solution. I'm defending this law, too. This law, of course, is about the calculation rate, but is this what we want to get out of as SP in the end? The answer is no. This is a temporary measure which, for a period of about five years, lays the ground of 2%, but ultimately we want to move towards a calculation rate and calculation rules for the viewers at home: these rules are about how pension funds should predict what their future liabilities should be, in part, based on risk-free interest rates, as they are now, but also partly on the average of the returns that have been made. Not only the SP or a number of other parties here have that view; this view is also supported by Mr Wijffels, Mr Wientjes, Mr Teulings, Mr Rob de Brouwer, who is behind me here, Mr Eijffinger, Mr Frijns and Mr Bezemer. A whole list of prominent people has sent a letter to all the group chairmen a long time ago saying: we count our poor and this is not going well; come up with different accounting rules. In that letter they outline the accounting rules as I have just indicated: partly based on the returns and partly based on that risk-free interest rate, so that pension funds no longer have to be poor and so we can stop working on time if we freeze that age with a pension that rises with prices, because only that is a good pension. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions that have been asked, starting with questions about our view and how this law relates to the WTP. D66, PVV, CDA and VVD have asked questions about this. We shall have much to say about our view of the WTP. In summary, it's a casino pension. The more hearings we organize, the more holes are shot into it. In this respect, it may not even be called a pension law anymore, but rather a piece of discussion that we first talk about and hear specialists about, but that certainly is not a law that is ready to be dealt with here. In this respect, this law is also separate from the WTP, because this law allows for a period of time to enter into conversation with each other, without any discount threats. This law also gives the room to look together at what can and is good. The PVV asked if this law is some kind of covert statement of support from the SP Group to the WTP. Well, absolutely not! It would be important to limit that damage now, remove that law from the table and see what improvements are possible within the current system. GroenLinks asked about the calculation rate. If we change it, are we there? Is it all that simple in life? No, it's certainly not that simple. I also mentioned the control, the Top Income Standards Act, raising the AOW, lowering the AOW age but increasing the amount, ensuring that everyone can build up a pension and allowing early retirement after 40 years of work, for example. D66 asked the question: why this initiative law, because the port is in sight? Well, there's no sign of a port. I was just sketching the holes that have already been shot in the WTP. As far as we are concerned, employers, employees and senior citizens should retable to look at the shrapnel together and see what is still possible. In the meantime, pensioners have not had an index for 14 years, while an average life expectancy is based on 20 years' pension. So 70% of their retired lives have a pension that doesn't go up with the prices. If this law is not passed, it is likely to take much longer. In short, there is no view of any port. No, in fact, the boat is heading straight for shore and the question is whether we are going to turn the ship or whether the shore is going to turn the ship. Mr. Chairman. The CDA asked how this relates to the boarding. If you don't go in, do you need a cut? Again, as far as we are concerned, this law is independent of entering any new pension law. We really are in a period when we choose this as the lower limit for the calculation rate. If that Wtp goes off the table, there's room for discussion and to look at other possibilities with each other. Then there is the relationship with the level of policy coverage. The policy coverage rate is something that has been introduced in the recent past to avoid discounts. An average level of coverage is assumed throughout the year instead of assuming the position at the end of the year, i.e. 31 December. The abolition of the level of policy coverage is important for this law so that it can enter into force quickly. By holding 2%, you avoid yo-yo situations anyway, because you have a lower limit of 2%. The VVD asked for that. In view of the current situation over the next few years, there is, of course, no chance of shortening on the basis of the situation at 31 December. In addition, due to the increased interest rates, this law provides for a limited increase in the coverage rate of about 7 percentage points. I do not see the dangers and disadvantages of abolishing the level of policy coverage given the proposal we are making here. The Group Van Haga, D66 and the CDA have asked what I think of a coverage rate of 105% of the acceptance decision. Making the indexation dependent on entering I find a form of blackmail and in that way undesirable. What we would see before us is that we would go back to the old ftk. Then you get to the 105% limit, but without that blackmail. Well, then the most important question. At least it is the question that has been asked by most parties and is most obvious, namely: why 2%? We have, of course, thought this through. It has a number of reasons. The first reason is of course the theory, among others from Piketty, but also the practice on which that theory is based, that in the long term returns are always greater than the growth of the nominal economy. As a result, this 2% is a very cautious limit. But also the Commission Parameters has indicated that the returns after deduction of cases are about 3.6% over the next five years. That is also a higher percentage than that explicit lower limit. The 2% we are proposing is a lower limit. But we also look at the other side of the balance sheet, where you determine what your obligations are in the future. On the other hand, you determine how much premium is to be paid. In determining the level of these premiums, too, a higher rate of interest is chosen than the 2% we propose. The lower limit we propose would only be a risk if the yields were long-term below 2%. Only if there are years in a row a return is less than 2%, would there be a problem. Of course, it is a bit different for each fund, but the direct return on capital, for example, is often around 2%. So I don't think that's where the concern is. The historical return on pension assets is around 6% to 8%. This also differs from fund to fund, but even in the years of the various economic crises we have had, this kind of averages was achieved. You should also ask the question: is it still sustainable if you have lower returns in a funded system than 2%? If you have that kind of return in a funded system, I think a pay-as-you-go system would have to be looked at, otherwise it would not be sustainable. The CPB pass-through, which we used as a basis for this bill, shows that this 2% has hardly any general effects either. These are negligible: less than 1% in the plus and less than 1% in the minus. As far as we are concerned, they are also debatable, but if we assume that these effects are negligible for a limited period of time. These are the reasons why we have chosen that 2%. A number of groups have asked: what if the interest rate exceeds 2%? The answer to that is: it is a lower limit. The interest rate is now going up and down a little bit and today is around 1.48%. If it continues to rise further and rises above 2%, it will become the new reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you for the answer so far, also for the flaming plea for returns on the financial markets and the explanation of the 2%, in response to a question that was indeed asked by many, also by myself. One of the discussions we had in the first term was about whether risk-free interest rates are objective. My point is that it is not objective. You can also give pros and cons. We have just heard a speech about why 2% has been chosen. You can provide an argument as to why you think something is right, but does the applicant Van Kent share with me that in the end no percentage we choose is the objective, correct percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u5	It is certainly an argument to choose to work with a lower limit. You could also enter into the discussion to add an upper limit. But what we are not doing is a fixed percentage of pricking. No, we're gonna lay a bottom. If the interest rate moves above that base, then the interest rate we propose will not be the interest rate to be charged. In that sense, it is an argument to say: you should not choose a fixed percentage but a bandwidth, or at least a lower limit. There is also often a misunderstanding about it. It has often been said that in the past there was no fixed rate of 4%; in the past there was an upper limit of 4%. A fund itself had the opportunity to choose a percentage based on its own investment policy and expectations that should not exceed 4%. So there was no fixed interest rate. I think this is true, especially given the differences per fund. Funds have different investment mixes, where one fund may benefit slightly less at higher interest rates than another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u6	I would like to thank Mr Van Kent very much for answering the questions so far. A comment by Mr Van Kent prompts me to ask another question. He himself says: you could also set an upper limit. Can Mr Van Kent explain why he was not elected?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u7	This initiative law sees a lower limit of 2%. If the VVD attaches to an upper limit, then of course there is room and the possibility to submit a proposal for that. We are certainly not opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u8	I can feel an amendment coming. No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u9	I felt it, too, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Several groups have asked whether that lower limit can also be higher than 2%. I've just gone into that. I appreciate the enthusiasm. If there is a majority for it, there might be a possibility, but I am defending that 2%, because it is a safe limit, with minimal objections. In addition, we must try to present here a proposal which may be supported. I think that 2% is the most cautious lower limit, which means that at least there will be no discounts and that approximately all pension funds will have room for indexing. The PVV has also asked: will this law be indexed if it is adopted? The answer is yes. Although the increase in interest rates is 0.5% by this law, all coverage rates increase by 7 percentage points on average; this varies from one fund to another. This brings indexing to most of the funds I dare to say: almost all of the funds are in the picture. If there is room for catching up, the Van Haga Group asked. Oh, yeah. If a fund now stands very well, which means that you are going over the coverage limits, this indeed comes into view. That would be very good news. The Labour Party and the VVD have asked whether politics should make these choices. Or should they be objective organisations? All we decide here are political choices. The choice to work with calculation rates, the choice to work with Commission Parameters, the choice to oblige pension funds to count for years as poor as possible are all political choices. I have supported our choice with those eight points, such as Piketty, the Commission Parameters, the premium fixing rate, the risks of long-term low return that have not occurred in history. All these things provide the basis on which we say: that is why this political choice is justified. I would stress that the Commission's Parameters is also a very political matter. She is led by Dijsselbloem, a former executive of the PvdA. Everything on this subject is more or less political. Then the distribution young-old. The Group Van Haga, GroenLinks, D66 and VVD have asked for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mrs Maatoug on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u11	I do not know whether it is a point of order or whether it is just a good thing to make this comment. I also think that many of the choices and considerations we make are political. But when we all commission a committee and there are different people in it because of their expertise, it is not a political committee. It is a group of experts that we have asked to provide expertise that we can use. The choices we make with this are extremely political, but I think it is important to have said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u12	Absolutely. However, the opinions delivered by this committee lead to a political debate here. You can see many politicians coming back to different places, including pension funds and pension administrators. That is indeed a matter of communicating vessels, but you certainly have a point. Then the distribution young-old. The Group Van Haga, GroenLinks, D66 and VVD asked about this. The CPB indicated that the effect is negligible. Those eight points also support that. It is also important to stress once again that if yields are indeed long-term below 2%, we must take a different decision here. Then there is a situation in which it can become particularly risky for young people. Once again, the sustainability of the current system is at stake. I think it is important that a new balance should be struck. Given the fixed income that pension funds have from dividends, rental income and other items, this is a scenario that is absolutely not to be expected. D66 really stirred up that contradiction between young and old. I was very sorry about that and I got a little angry about it too. It seemed a little like D66 denied and didn't realize that not indexing also affects young people and workers. That is, of course, the case. The 14 years of lack of indexing cut it for pensioners, but cut it just as hard for people who are building a pension. This is not a generational contradiction, it is something that concerns young and old, it is something that concerns pensions today, but also the pensions of the future. The issues that D66 has supported and the enthusiasm at D66 about the new pension law or the discussion document are also very detrimental to young people. I call it abolishing the way you build up your pension. The average systematiek is a measure that is going to cut down hard for young people when they miss retirement years in their first working years. Those first years are becoming many times more important, but the Future Pensions Act does not provide for allzzp'ers to build up a pension. Young people who are going to be working as zzp'ers and are missing part of their retirement, will soon miss a much larger part of their later pension thanks to D66. That is a very bad point for young people in the future pensions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr Van Kent refers to the first term. Let me start with the last piece. I think we agree that we need to think carefully about how we can convince young people as soon as possible that they need to build up their pension. That's not happening anymore. That trust is going away. I think we agree on that in this Chamber. There's got to be that trust. Mr Van Kent knows that I like to work forzzp'ers and that I also want to know what can be arranged for them. We recognize each other completely in that. In this respect, I am very curious to see how we are going to deal with this Future Pensions Act together. Mr Van Kent began by saying that he felt it was annoying that I set the generations against each other. What I would like to emphasise very much is that I am going to do that again, because it seems that this has not come across enough, is that I am concerned that we are not going to meet future commitments from the present situation if we are going to spend money now. I would like to make a point about this, and I say that I want to deal with it carefully, because that does have consequences for future generations. I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u14	No, we absolutely do not agree on that, in the sense that in the future pensions Act as it now stands for from the government, no pension is provided for thezzp'ers, for whom you claim to stand up. That law does not provide for all young people to have the right to a pension. That law does not provide that if years are missed by a different way of pension building, a solution will be found for young people. These young people must also continue to work longer. In addition, these young people will also receive an uncertain casino pension, because it is unclear what you are working towards and what you will receive later on in retirement. So no, D66 does not represent the interests of young people here. And D66, by contrast between generations, reduces confidence in the pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr Van Kent points out that D66 does not represent the interests of young people. He mentions a lot of subjects that I totally disagree with, but those are his words. I also notice that he doesn't listen very well, because I indicated that I think it is very important that we start thinking about how we're gonna arrange it forzzp'ers and how we're gonna convince young people that they're gonna start building their pension early. There's already a white stain in the current Pension Act. That's why I said that I think we agree on that. There's a problem already. There are already young people who don't build up. There are now zzp'ers and there are more and That is why I am pleased that there is talk of the third pillar, in which the percentage increases. Anyway, we're not going to anticipate the law. I think it is important for Mr Van Kent to listen to what I am trying to say. I also think it is important to stress that where we can find each other, I would like to do so. Mr Van Kent makes a very strong point that he has no fiduciary at all and no confidence in the Future Pensions Act. That is where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u16	We certainly differ in this respect, because in the future pensions Act there are those things that are detrimental to young people. I'm listening to you, but I'm also looking at what's in that law. In the meantime, it also seems to me that only the parties bound by the pension agreement are still enthusiastic about this at the hearings. All the others say "yes, this way you absolutely cannot introduce this law." The criticism goes from technical to "it is totally irresponsible to do so." I do judge the law on its content, and I see that young people are the victims of it, unlike the law I am defending here. The law that the SP defends here is a law that ensures that the pensions of young people and of the elderly get back at prices. That's good for young and old.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u17	Today we are discussing Mr Van Kent's own-initiative proposal. Mr. Smalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u18	I have to think about whether I am asking a question that is indeed about this initiative proposal and not too much about the Future Pensions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mrs Van Beuker is also very much on top of it. She has even read the Rules of Procedure to ensure that we really concentrate on the subject. So, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yes. If I don't do it right, please, Mr. Chairman. Still a question to Mr. Van Kent. Mr Van Kent will have to acknowledge that in the current system, which is supplemented by the initiative law, I see that; it is a small change, it is also very unfavourable for young people. A young person who is now making contributions is actually building up far too little pension for the contribution he is currently making. With your permission, Mr President, I say that in the new retirement scheme that is fair. In that case, the premium that the young person pays will actually last as long as the young person still lives until his retirement age.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u21	This is about the Future Pensions Act, but okay. A young person who lacks a number of pension years in the current situation at a young age has a smaller problem later on at the retirement date than a young person in the new situation missing a number of pension years. That's not good for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u22	To clarify my question, I would like to say the following about the current system. A young person who now, at 25, pays €1,000 pension contributions, receives less pension in return than he could actually be entitled to under the accounting rules. This €1,000 is much longer than the €1,000 that someone aged 65 now puts in his pension. That's the average systematic. You just said something about that. Isn't it unfair under the current system for that youngster that the €1,000 he's putting into it doesn't yield as much as he would actually be entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u23	I understand how it works, but I also understand that it can be very detrimental for young people if they miss years of construction. In any case, we should ensure that everyone in the Netherlands first builds up a pension. Then we could have that discussion, but not until then. First of all, we need to ensure that it is settled for all those flex workers in terms of waiting times and thatzzp'ers have a pension scheme. So that's not tax space, experiments and that sort of thing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Until then, it has a huge effect on their later retirement if young people miss years of building up. That's really bad for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u24	I fully agree with Mr Van Kent. It is hugely bad when young people miss construction, because those years are still running for a very long time. If a young person does lay in first and at some point becomes azzp'er, then he also misses a lot of building. So that's unfair, too. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u25	Suppose he or she always misses the same share of the later retirement. That's flat. In the new system it is: the younger you are, the larger the part of your later pension that you build up. If you're going to miss years there, it's very bad for your later retirement and so it's also very bad for young people. Yeah, that's a really serious problem. The case shouldn't be reversed either. It can't be that we're going to discuss now that we need to get everyone to retire, because we're going to do this. You have to make sure everyone's retiring first. Then you can have that discussion, but not until then. Once again, young people are deeply affected by this. Mr. Chairman. Then it was also about market manipulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u26	There is another question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u27	I am glad that the Chamber is suddenly very concerned about the importance for young people. The VVD says this bill is a little change. So that could mean that the VVD will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u28	I'm counting on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u29	Because the prevention of discounts is of course also in favour of young people. Young people work and have pension building. At the time of the cut-off, their pension structure is also being reduced. Since the Chamber is now so deeply concerned about young people, it should be that this bill can be seen as a supplement, especially in favour of young people. Can the initiator agree that and that towards the Chamber perhaps extra pin points to indicate that this proposal is to the benefit of young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u30	It is indeed a great and widespread misunderstanding that not indexing pensions is only bad for pensioners. That image is in the minds of a lot of people, but also a still pension that you are building is a bad pension. This is a pension that is getting less and less and so you can buy less and less of it later on. If this law is adopted, young people will indeed benefit from it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the market manipulation. Mr Smals spoke in the first term. That was about the ECB, the European Central Bank. It buys up a lot: bonds and debts. This has an impact on market interest rates. As a result, market interest rates are artificially low. It is a political choice to allow artificially low interest rates to affect our pensions. Risk-free interest resulting from the ECB's policy does not have to be the interest rate that we use, among other things, in determining how pension funds should make their future liabilities in cash. You can, and this proves this law, say as politically as well: you can also involve yields in addition to interest rates. That's what Frijns, Goudswaard, Wientjes and Wijffels indicate. Be careful; of course. The 100 prominent politicians who sent this letter don't say that for nothing. In this way, you can see the role of the European Central Bank and the consequences it has on interest rates... It is a political choice to say: we let that count less or not in the way pension funds should count.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u31	'Manipulated interest' is the term I used in my question to Mr Van Kent. That is because those words are in the explanatory statement. I asked that question because the explanatory statement states that interest is being manipulated. That 2% shall then be based on assumptions made by the ECB that are simply established by the ECB. If you first reject the manipulation of interest rates by the ECB, how can you believe something that has been objectively established by the ECB? That was the background to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u32	You are probably talking about the inflation target to which the European Central Bank is counting. That does indeed fit within the 2% we are proposing. I have also made a number of other arguments. Think of Piketty's expectations of long-term returns or the forecasted 3.6% return over the next five years by the Commission Parameters. I should also like to mention the fixing of premiums and the percentage used. I mean, it's a lower limit. If it's a long year underneath, you have to check with each other to see if it's still justified. There is also direct return: dividends, rental income and other items within pension funds. I have also mentioned the historical return. If the return is below 2%, you have to ask the question at all whether the system is still feasible. Finally, think of the CPB that indicates that the general effects are also negligible. I think this is the basis for the 2% solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u33	Can the initiator finish up a bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u34	There are a few more questions that need to be answered, Mr President. The CDA asks: what exactly do you want with an AMvB? I understand that question. The background is, of course, that it's a temporary thing. It is a temporary targeted measure that ensures that the lower limit of 2% will apply over the next five years. Moreover, it is also quite common to include such matters in a general measure of governance. The PVV says the money should go to pensioners instead of to suit up. I very much agree with that. I can announce that we will come up with an initiative paper to include the whole pension sector under the Top Income Standards Act, better known as the beaming standard, because in that sector salaries are paid that do not fit the sector. They're paid from the pension jars, so out of our deferred pay. The VVD asked an interesting question about the ruling in the case against PMT. I had to study on that for a while. I've taken that verdict for a while. The judge made a judgment: "It is lawful, for it is made by law. It respects, in substance, the content of pension rights, it is necessary and it meets the objective of the general interest." I'm sure this law is, too. It is laid down by law, it respects pension rights, it is necessary and it meets the objective of the general interest. In that sense, I see no problem there. GroenLinks made a very interesting contribution and asks, among other things: should we not go to a pay-as-you-go system, should we not extend the AOW much further? I am very glad that there will be some openness in the debate on the future of our pensions. I think that is a very interesting discussion. It is important to think independently of the Wtp whether there could still be alternatives. I think the pay-as-you-go system is an interesting way of thinking. You don't have to go to a pure pay-as-you-go system; you can also apply parts of it. I think that's worth a discussion. It seems to me that part of a solution can also be found there. I very much agree on the AOW. It is very important to strengthen the basic pension, which also applies to people with disabilities and to young people later on. There are also people who, for example, do not build up a pension due to circumstances, who opt for family care or for other reasons depend on the AOW for their old age. The SP wants to strengthen the AOW very strongly by raising the minimum wage to €15 and increasing the AOW and other coupled benefits. Then it's going to be a very solid basic pension scheme. You also mentioned the current account surplus. That is an interesting and complex issue. For those who love it: it means that we have far too much money, which is detrimental to our economy but above all to economies outside our country. In the hearing there was an interesting discussion about that being a very bad thing for many reasons. In my view, the endless build-up of pensions and the raising of all that money is one of the reasons why we have that surplus and are in that situation. That is all the more reason to argue for broader accounting rules, so that the pension is not endlessly and unnecessarily hoarded. You also asked the question: "Can we not arrange something collectively anymore? Have we lost each other so much that there's nothing left? Can't we come to a solution together?" I think it has been very close at a number of times that employers, workers and pensioners came to an agreement or put on the table a joint plan and that there was real willingness and room for joint action. But it has always been shown that De Nederlandsche Bank said no. Take the well-known letter from De Nederlandsche Bank, from Klaas Knot to former Minister Koolmees in the middle of the pension negotiations, where the message was: no, you can do something with the buffers, but if you stay in this system, risk-free interest rates will remain the benchmark and there will be no discussion. That has prevented that agreement from being found, because it would cause such great problems that you could not reach a collective agreement. We owe it to the monstrosity we now have, the Future Pensions Act. As a result, it has been said that we are not going on the road we wanted to go on, but we are going on a premium scheme. Then it's only certain what you'll make of your bounty and no more deals are made about what you'll get later. That was the only way to seduce De Nederlandsche Bank to get rid of that absolutely risk-free interest rate. If that is released or if we have a minister, she is sitting next to me who dares to say to De Nederlandsche Bank "no, we need that space to come up with a fair and good pension system and we are not going to use that risk-free interest rate because it says nothing about the returns or the financial health of pension funds"... We can see that now. Interest rates are rising and pension fund assets are getting less valuable, but indexation is getting closer. That is, of course, a very strange paradox. You should actually say: if pension funds achieve good returns and capital increases, then indexing should come closer and not as interest rates rise, because it doesn't say much about the coverage rate. We're in the middle of this weird situation right now. I think that shows that the way we deal with our pension funds is totally bizarre.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u35	...Mrs. Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u36	Just checking to see if you were still there, Mr. Chairman. This is, of course, a flaming speech by Mr Van Kent. Thanks for the answer, too. He does that at a high rate, but I'm a little confused. Perhaps I have missed a letter of amendment on the proposal we are discussing, because the initiator clearly mentions in the documents the two objectives of the initiative proposal: to avoid reductions during the period of entry and to enter with a high discount rate. We know that Mr Van Kent is not enthusiastic about the new system. That's possible, but I thought he'd want to turn on certain buttons in the run-up to that, and we can find something about that. But now I hear him say: no, I want to do this separately from the boarding. The proposal has actually become: we at AMvB are going to adjust that interest rate for a period of five years, regardless of whether there will be a new system or not. Is he not abandoning the objectives linked to this initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u37	Our political view has not changed. In any case, in the coming period, we will have a period in which the current Pension Act will apply with the transition ftk and there will be a discussion about a law that will or will not be passed. Either way, that period will be there. After that, pension funds will have to make a decision. No matter what happens, it'll take time. The goal now is that pension funds would make a transition between 2023 and 2027. Whether that happens or not, whether pension funds make that decision or not, there is a period in which the current law applies, and that current law is breaking. For this period, this initiative law is intended to cover a period of five years with a lower limit of 2%, so that we avoid reducing pensions and ensure that more pensions can be indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u38	For that purpose, I agreed. The Minister has also indicated that the aim is to avoid discounts. Measures have already been announced for this. Mr Van Kent can put an alternative to that. That is his right, but, of course, measures have already been taken against it. There are also very good reasons, which I have just heard from Mr Van Kent, why we should want to move towards a system change, apart from the fact that we are still talking about this. This is actually a system in which you say: no good investment returns are being achieved now, but interest rates are going up a bit and an indexation is approaching. That's kind of weird, actually. In the new system, that becomes something else. Anyway, we'll talk about that later. My question is this. Measures are already being taken for the interim period. Then, in my opinion, this bill is superfluous. If Mr Van Kent removes his objective of preventing discounts during the period of entry into the high discount rate, then we will come back to Mr Van Rooijen's 2018 bill. And we've already dealt with that once in this room. I would refer to the legal nature of 'ne bis in idem'; we do not need to discuss the same thing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u39	A few things about that. Preventing discount is absolutely a goal of this law, because neither you nor I can predict what the interest rate will do in the years to come. It's about a five-year period. Anything can happen in there. The aim of preventing discounts is therefore clear. The second point was that, as interest rates rise, indexation would come closer. That's right. You say that the new system could be a solution to this problem. The view of the SP is that this new system is throwing away the best pension system in the world, that this will lead to an uncertain pension, that it is very expensive, that it is legally incorrect, and that it is very complicated, and that people will not understand where they stand. There are a lot of things to say about that. That's what we're gonna discuss with each other. The SP believes that you should also take into account returns when determining the future obligation. In this context, I have cited all these prominent figures, including some of your fellow party members, all kinds of scientists, a former chief of the CPB, Mr Wijffels and Mr Wientjes of VNO-NCW. All kinds of people of stature have indicated: involve in calculating that future obligation not only the interest rate, but also the yields obtained. At the time you choose to do so within the current system, which is the preferred option of the SP................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is a different discussion from this law, but it is a discussion that I would very much like to have, because I am convinced that that is the solution to the problem we are dealing with, as opposed to throwing our pension system overboard. Mr President, concluding. The pensioners have dropped out. All senior organisations are now firing this law. There is screaming inflation and rising prices in the supermarket and at the petrol pump. The energy bill is going up again with many dozens of euros. This is really the chance to find a connection, to reach out to all those pensioners, young people and workers who see a pension that has been standing still for 14 years or even declining. If you vote in favour of this law, you can ensure that pensions rise with prices at this difficult time and make it possible to talk to pensioners in the coming years. Because if we leave those discounts and the lack of indexation hanging over the heads of all those pensioners and employees, then confidence in the pension system will not work. That is why I would like to conclude by calling for this law to be supported. It is a step in the right direction. It is not the ideal of the SP, but it is a compromise that allows us to ensure that these groups get a pension that goes up with prices. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u40	Those are beautiful, flaming words to close with. That's the spirit. So much for the first term. I wonder whether there is a need for an explanation from the Minister. I hear a deep sigh. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u41	In any case, I would first of all like to express my appreciation for Mr Van Kent, but a little more for the people behind this proposal for an initiative. It has, of course, also had some preparation by other former members of this Chamber. I thought it was special. It was about the law before this, but I thought it was more about the Future Pensions Act than about this law. I think it's very nice that there's so much attention to that. We can't start that early enough. I think my advice will be clear. The Cabinet itself sent the Future Pensions Act to the Chamber. There are fundamentally different choices to those made in this bill. I am not having all kinds of discussions with Mr Van Kent, because it is an initiative law and your Chamber is allowed to debate it. However, for the sake of completeness, I would like to point out, among other things, the opinion of the Council of State, which says that there is actually no good basis for the percentage, which is 2%, and that there are insufficient safeguards to ensure that the new interest rate is balanced, so that it cannot be avoided that the burden can be imposed unilaterally on certain groups. The Council of State also points out that the interest rate can be made a political button, while the balance and financial interests of all sub-groups must be taken into account. I believe that the Council of State has clearly indicated how the cabinet views this bill. We are therefore not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u42	Clear. This was your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u44	Then there is one more question. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u45	Can the Minister at least acknowledge... Now that argument about that political button comes up again. We should not turn that button like politics and you name it. In 2007, politics turned that button. Can the Minister at least confirm that? And if so, why is that an argument not to? At the time, that decision was made from a political point of view, from a professional K. Then why is the same decision suddenly being taken, precisely when it can benefit all those pensioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u46	Precisely because of what Mr De Jong is now saying: it can be very beneficial for certain groups, which makes it unbalanced for other groups. This is, of course, also one of the key points of the Future Pensions Act, namely that interests must be balanced. That's the lead. Everyone should be able to rely on a good pension. This applies not to one group in particular, but to everyone. We must ensure that these kinds of questions do not become a political choice for the majority of this Chamber. We have to look, in its entirety, at whether everyone gets the pension he's entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u47	Rounding up. It is said by the Minister that we should not turn that button as a political one. This while that button was turned in 2007, so we haven't indexed for 14 years now. This has had an impact on all those pensioners, young and old, who have lost confidence in the pension system and who have lost their pension purchasing power. This is due to a political decision, which has turned a button. What this proposal calls for is that 2007 decision, which has therefore turned out to be negative for people who are building up pensions and for pensioners, to be slightly restored, in the period towards the new pension system, whatever you think of it, and we do not want to do so; we want to allow improvements to be made within the current system to avoid reductions. I just don't understand why the Minister keeps saying, as former Minister Koolmees did, that he is not touching that button, when in 2007 he was on that button and this proposal is partly trying to restore it. Does the Minister recognise that the button has been attached and that it can be put into the base, but that it may not be a good time for the Minister to submit the Future Pensions Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u48	The Future Pensions Act has a very different system. This suggests that we are also going to be turning all kinds of buttons in that law, which is not the case. We need to discuss it here, and I would really advise you to do it yourself in the legal process, because then we have the whole palette of things to do here, so that you get much more of a relationship between your deposit and your pension building. In reality, the retirement ambition that exists is less than most people had expected and hoped for. This also largely undermines the belief in our pension system. That is why I am convinced that we must move to a different system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u49	Clear. Thank you. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? Mrs Kathmann has already given up her speaking time. Mr. De Jong? The floor is up to him. I'd like to be brief, please be pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my thanks to the initiators. It is a proposal that should prevent reductions from taking place in the transition towards a new pension system. It ensures that there is more protection both for people who are building up pensions and for pensioners. That should be in the interests of all of us. We should therefore stay away from political statements and framing, which have been affecting us for many years and which does not benefit a retired person. That is why I would like to zoom in on that last point. It is all the time here that we are not supposed to be able to play a political role, whereas fourteen years ago, politics started to play a key role, which means that for 14 years there has been no indexing, where pensioners have suffered a great financial disadvantage and where workers have suffered a great financial disadvantage in terms of building up their pensions. This bill is an answer to that. I therefore wholeheartedly support this bill. We would have preferred a permanent change in the rate of calculation to take place in the current system. That is not this proposal, but it provides protection and we can wholeheartedly support it. That is why I would like to thank the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you. Then there is Mr Smals from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the author for answering the questions, including the difficult questions that have apparently been asked. I would also like to thank him for suggesting the amendment, but I have to disappoint the author: I am probably not going to do that. Why? We really believe that the course towards the new system is a sensible choice and that this bill is not going to help. I'm going to think deeply, but we probably won't support it. It remains for me to say that I am pleased that we have talked extensively about pensions this evening. In line with what Mrs Maatoug said, we cannot talk about it often enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u53	And you're gonna do it a lot in the future, I'm afraid. Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief, but what's a second term without motions? Given that the Dutch citizens had to leave many feathers because of the box 3 affair, surcharges, inflation and energy, I thought it would be nice to make two proposals to give them back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas life is becoming increasingly expensive as a result of inflation, but people with a pension have not had an index for years;]] [[calls on the Government to achieve, with retroactive effect, as much indexing of pensions as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35681-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u55	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas inflation is increasing the cost of life and people with pensions have not been indexed for years;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with pension funds, to achieve a one-off Christmas bonus of €500 per pensioner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35681-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u56	I am convinced that we would rather spend some money on our own citizens than on strange climate plans. We still have a pot of 60 billion that we can draw on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u57	There is a question from Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u58	Imagine giving the earth to future generations! But my question is this. I heard you specifically mention only pensioners. Why not everyone? We see a lot of different groups of people who cannot pay the energy bill, including people who are still working. Why only this group, I ask the colleague, through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u59	That's what I'd like to say. I'm also an economist and a realist. There are 3.5 million pensioners. A Christmas bonus of €500 costs €1.75 billion. We get 4.1 billion back from the RRF fund. That's gonna save you. The state debt is fine, so we can still suffer, as we heard today from Klaas Knot. But to give each one $500 goes a little too much into the paperwork, I think. But file a motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u60	One short question, though. Then why not have a bonus aimed at, for example, the lowest incomes, the people who need it most? Finally, I would like to ask my colleague, through the President, if those rich retired pension administrators, who have been so much stocked up, should receive the additional €500 proposed in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u61	I'm a little disappointed. I know a lot of people who are retired and living off an AOW or a very lean pension that is not indexed. So when Mrs Maatoug talks about 'rich pensioners', it seems as if she gives great wealth to all pensioners, but I hardly know those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u62	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u63	No, no, no, Mrs Maatoug. You said it was the last time. You're gonna have to fight it out at the members' restaurant. We're going to see Mrs. Van Beuker. That is the next speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a comment on this myself. Of course, there are also people in the Netherlands who have built up a larger pension and may not need a bonus of €500. In that sense, I recognize Mrs Maatoug's words. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the authors, those who are behind it and who have been involved, the previous author and the authors of the plan, and to thank them for taking the initiative. I would also like to stress once again that we, as D66, are indeed there for all the target groups who receive a pension, including for pensioners. We also know that they have not had indexation in recent years. That is why we are also looking forward to the Future Pensions Act, because we are going to say goodbye to the accounting rate. You probably expected this, because it was in my input as well. We find it difficult to support this proposal now, based on a minimum level and a reduction in discounts. We simply hope that we will soon talk to each other and set up a future-proof system for all generations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u65	Very good. Mrs. Palland from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr President, thank you. I always look for my security a little bit in paper. You never know what questions you're gonna get. I think: then I can mess around in the papers and hopefully come up with a good answer. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators for the answer and the thorough work that led to it. It is true what Mr Van Kent said: there are, of course, concerns about the lack of indexation and what exactly the new system is going to bring about. That makes sense. Of course, that's what the conversation is about. That's what we're gonna do here. We share the objective mentioned by Mr Van Kent: to cut it unnecessarily. But as far as we are concerned, action has already been taken on this. We believe it is important that the collective transition protects the interests of all those participants, including young people and pensioners. That point of the discount rate is now highlighted, which is not balanced as far as we are concerned. Mr Ephraim, who was also concerned about pensioners and not indexing them for years, has therefore already taken action from the Chamber to index earlier in the transitional phase, ahead of the WTP, by adjusting the level of policy coverage in the transition ftk. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u67	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also from the GroenLinks Group thanks and compliments for the answer. We knew that Mr Van Kent was good at asking questions, but we also see that he is good at answering them. Then we'll know about each other. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is going to take these answers and weigh them and then we're going to see what we're going to do. A lot of different things have been said. Finally, I think it is very important that, fortunately, there are still a lot of debates, Mr President. So I also understand that you want to send us home in time. But I hope that Mr Ephraim will support all the amendments and motions that we are going to table in the spring note and in the supplementary budget to ensure that people who cannot make ends meet, whether they are retired or not, receive support. Because it's a shame if that money doesn't end up right. I also know my colleague as someone who pays attention to the pennies. That would be very inefficient, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u69	Very well, thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Hijink of the SP, but he will waive his speaking time. He doesn't even take the opportunity to make one more flaming plea for this law? Okay. Then this was the term of the Chamber. Then I look at Mr Van Kent: does he appreciate doing his second term now or at a later date? He's gonna do the talking now. Let us now listen to the second term of the initiator. And then I expect the Minister to comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u70	I'll take over from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u71	You give them a finger and they take the whole hand, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the reactions. Thank you also to Mr De Jong for his support. I naturally share the view that a structural solution must be found. As far as we are concerned, this is an interest rate which also takes into account returns that have been achieved. So thank you for that. Mr. Smalls is going to think deeply. I hope that today we have been able to feed on that deep thinking and that a positive opinion will follow from that to the group. Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group has tabled two motions which I believe are good for pensioners. I understand the question why you would not also provide other groups that are struggling with a Christmas bonus, but I would not want to remember this pensioners for that reason. So I think these are good proposals. Mrs Van Beuker is there for all generations; that is the thesis. We will enter into this discussion with the Future Pensions Act, because I am convinced that this is absolutely not the case. Ms Palland pointed out that there were a lot of concerns in CDA citizens about pensions, the new Pension Act and the lack of indexation. I hope that these concerns, this law and the discussion that we are going to have will lead to different and better agreements being made on this matter than what is now in the cabinet. GroenLinks is going to weigh it. I'm really excited about that. I hope I've been able to convince you. Once again, that 2% has no or hardly any effect on the distribution within generations. Pension funds have historically surpassed the 2% returns. The direct return is already around 2%. The lower limit is selected safely. The fixing of rates of premiums is already higher than what we propose. The Commission's Parameters already predicts a higher return than this law proposes. Finally, Piketty also points out that, if you go back very far in the data, you can already see that the returns are greater than the growth of the economy. This is a cautious proposal which has a clear effect, namely that pensions for young and old will rise again with prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. Then the Minister on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you. There are indeed two motions. In the first motion by Mr Ephraim, on item No. 9, the government is called upon to do something "with retroactive effect." That's a bit of an indefinite time. I don't know how far that goes and when that should start or end. Furthermore, it says "as much as possible." That too is a little open-minded. But I say to Mrs Palland that there is also an indexing AMvB. If it all goes well, it will enter into force on 1 July. In doing so, we have looked at how we can ensure that indexing within responsible frameworks is made possible more quickly. In that light, I therefore advise against this motion. Then the Ephraim motion in part No. 10, on the Christmas bonus for pensioners. That is an imbalance within generations, if I may call it that. I think it says here that it should be financed within the pension funds. Then it's really moving towards one group. If it's got eyes on the state budget, there's no cover for it, so I'm also deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-10.u75	A remarkable development at the end of this debate! So much for this debate. Compliments to Mr Van Kent; I speak on behalf of many. He's done a great job with a lot of eloquence and conviction. Thank you also to the Minister for her contribution today and also to the support of the author, Mr De Brouwer and Mr Van den Hout. Thank you for being with us! Also a nod towards Martin van Rooijen, honorary gallery of old glory. He was Secretary of State under Den Uyl. Then he was the youngest ruler. I think he is now one of the oldest members of the States General as a senator. Nice to see our former colleague Van Rooijen again!
