ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Members Ellemeet and Tielen amending the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act concerning the influence of carers, Section 35660. Once again, I would like to welcome the initiators. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport in trade K and the support, namely Daniel de Rijke and Engelina Kuik, policy staff of the political groups, respectively GroenLinks and the VVD. The first term of office took place on 17 March. Today the answer is discussed in the first period and the second period as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet, one of the initiators. I trust that in her reply she will shed light on the two amendments that have been tabled. I call Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a special time to stand here with Mrs Tielen, defend our law and answer all questions. It is a special time to be a representative of the people in this place, but frankly I feel even more represented by the caregivers in this legal process. So it's something contained, from the whole people to the caregivers, so the nurses, caregivers, physiotherapists, you name it, who work every day for our care with all their knowledge and skill. Without them, we often say it, and rightly so, our concern in the Netherlands would not be of such a high level. Today we are talking about our own initiative law, which should make it normal for the knowledge and skills of healthcare professionals to be properly used in healthcare so that care can get even better. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with an introduction. Then, together with Mrs Tielen, I will answer all the questions that have been asked. We have, as is good practice, divided into cubes. After my introduction, I will first discuss the definitions, including care, content, influence and participation. In the second block I go into the questions that have been asked about the open standards and the governance code. Then Mrs. Tielen will take over for me. She first examines the consequences of the bill. The fourth block deals with the questions of supervision and enforcement. Then we also have a cube of varia. But first I come to my introduction. This law is about control, about influence on care. This law has also been established thanks to the input of many healthcare providers. I would therefore like to begin by thanking all the people who have taken the time to speak with us, explaining why it is necessary to lay down this power in a law and why it is also desirable not to regulate it completely in the law. They also colored that abstract concept of "control" with a lot of examples about how things can go wrong, but fortunately also about a lot of examples about how good it is to listen carefully to healthcare professionals. Let me start with the misses, to color it in a little bit. It happens that a management takes a decision on the use of money from an innovation pool, without asking the staff what it is best to spend on. For example, there are very expensive shower brancards, but then it is not considered that you need two caregivers to put someone in the shower, while you normally wash someone with one caregiver. Another example is work on vitality policy in an institution. Steering committees, executives and academics were involved, but no one was actually involved, the ones they wanted to keep vital. It happens that there are renovations without asking the staff what is actually needed for logical walking routes. It also happens that the amount of electrical outlets you need has not been considered by building engineers in the new housing. Then there is one socket for an electric bed, but then they forget that you also have to plug in infusion pumps. The result is that all pulleys and extension cords lie through the rooms to be able to treat the patients properly. It happens that the chairman of a nursing advisory board is sent an already completed policy plan, with the question of whether he thinks of it. During the corona crisis, the existing crisis plan was taken off the shelf in organisations, but there was absolutely no regard for the fear that employees had of infecting their patients or getting infected themselves. If they indicated that they were afraid and didn't know how to deal with it, they were referred to a website instead of having a conversation with a supervisor. That's exactly what they needed. I could fill the rest of the day with examples of misses, but I'm not going to, because fortunately there's a lot going well too. There are plenty of examples in which the expertise of the workers in the workplace is used, including for policy, so that care becomes even better. That's what happened in a heroin rehab program, for example. In addition, the nurses saw that five patients smoked in one room. That led to a lot of anxiety and stress in those patients. Those nurses managed to get more privacy and that they could treat all those patients at the same rate. Sometimes it also happens that a professional advisory board is asked what they really want to set up instead of drawing up the agenda for them. That is why there is attention to aggression in the workplace. That theme lived hugely among all caregivers. Let me give you another very good example. Sometimes, in good consultation between the teams of the district nurses and the management, there is also a solution for the dragon of the questionnaire that is available to get all the information about the quality. They often fill it in twice a year and spend a lot of time on it. It's often one person on the team who fills out the list. They have now made a brief questionnaire. The teams will fill it in together. They make that part of their job. What exactly is coming out of this questionnaire? What are the priorities? You only have to do it once a year. The board asked, in consultation with the district nurses' teams, why do we actually do that twice a year? They'd much rather it be part of the job than another checklist. So these are examples of the influence of caregivers in which things are going well, and there are. In any case, we have listened as closely as possible to all the stories and all the advice of healthcare professionals. The following was very striking. On one advice, these caregivers were unanimous, namely: keep it simple. Give us a simple law that will allow us to beat our supervisor in the ears if necessary. Please don't saddle us with all the rules again. A nurse said that control is about cultural change, not bureaucratic checklists. Mr. Chairman. I have thanked the caregivers, but I would also like to thank the colleagues with whom I have worked on this law at an earlier stage. We had a few changes at the VVD. I would like to thank Mr Hayke Veldman. I would like to thank Mrs Aukje de Vries. In particular, I would like to thank Sophie Hermans. She really was my partner in crime of the first hour. We took up this subject together. We checked first to see if we could do it without a law. Eventually, that law was needed. It was really great to pick that up together. I am glad that we can now hopefully bring this to a successful conclusion. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start with my first piece of work on the definitions we use. A number of questions have been asked by Members Westerveld and Hijink about what that care-content policy means, how the quality of care is defined and how the term "influence" relates to "control" and "participation." Mrs Westerveld wanted to know how to prevent us from getting bogged down in lengthy discussions about what the content is. The good news is that the content we are talking about is quite well defined in Article 3 of the Wkkgz, the Quality Act, complaints and disputes care. It states that there are a number of aspects, a number of preconditions that must be met in order to provide good care. So it's about good construction facilities. It's about well-trained and well-trained personnel. It is about an organisation of the care, so that the caregiver can also provide really good care. All of these elements in Article 3 must be capable of influencing healthcare providers. The article says: with that together you can provide good care. I shall be very brief on the first amendment tabled by Mr Hijink, namely No. 11, because that's what's touching here. With this initiative law, we aim to influence the decision-makers on all aspects of that Article 3 of the Wkkgz. And then it's about care services now, on the workplace. It's about policy. And so it is also about how care will be organised in the future. The latter is, of course, also being considered. The way in which we have written that down in the legal text leads to confusion. We've noticed that in the Chamber's contribution. The way in which we have written it down and the wording we have used could be interpreted in such a way that we would actually want to narrow that influence of the caregivers rather than narrow the scope of that Article 3. That was and is not our intention. It is, of course, annoying if there is confusion about it and Mr Hijink actually has a solution to that. He says, "Drop the one sentence that might give you the impression that you want to narrow it down than that whole article 3. For the sake of completeness, I will read that sentence here. It is the phrase "insofar as that policy is directly relevant to their contribution to the provision of good care." Because of that phrase, we wanted to add that it is about the influence on care. Anyway, you could interpret it as a narrowing of that Article 3. Mr Hijink says: delete that sentence, and then it is clear to everyone that all the elements in that Article 3 of the Wkkgz apply when it comes to that influence that we want to give to healthcare professionals. We think that is a good proposal, so as far as we are concerned, this amendment is given in respect of item No. 11 by Mr Hijink Judgement Chamber. Mr. Chairman. There was also discussion about the question of what exactly is this good concern. Mrs van den Berg rightly asked: how do we ensure that the professional group is also involved in the formulation of what is good care? The good news is that it is precisely that profession that determines what good care is in guidelines and in healthcare standards. So basically, it's primacy for that formulation among the caregivers. What is it about in our law? You have all these standards and those guidelines. They are generic and then translated into institutions. After all, you can have a general directive on quality, but what do you do with it in your institution? How are you going to apply the directive in your institution? We say that caregivers must also be involved in making these choices. Healthcare providers are therefore involved in drafting the guidelines and standards, but they should also be involved in the implementation of those guidelines and standards in a healthcare institution. So we are also saying that we want those caregivers to be taken in front of all those choices that then play. How are you going to implement that? So caregivers should not be consulted on this question only afterwards, because you want them to be able to really influence policy and day-to-day work. This brings me to the following, but I see that Mrs Van den Berg wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u4	All you have to do is look at the President, not the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u5	Well, that's easy and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u6	And if you want to interrupt, Mrs Van den Berg, you really need to stand by the interrupting microphone, otherwise we don't know what you want. Anyway, Mrs van den Berg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr President, for this clear instruction. Mrs Ellemeet has just said: you must ensure that caregivers are involved in implementing that directive in that institution. The CDA, particularly in the input, has drawn attention to the difference between what I call 'hospitals' and what I call 'the institutions with long-term care'. We believe that clients are also very important in long-term care institutions. And there, the interests of, for example, the board of directors and the client council, and of caregivers, may sometimes be at odds with each other. I would like to hear a reply from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u8	This law is indeed specifically about the input and influence of the caregivers, but Mrs Van den Berg rightly says that in a nursing home, for example, you also have to deal with people who live and stay there for a long time. How do you make sure they're heard properly? I think Mrs Van den Berg is also talking about the implementation of these directives and standards. Then how do you work with that in an institution? I'm also looking at the minister, because it's actually additional, you might say, to our law. But I share with Mrs Van den Berg that it is extremely important to hear them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u9	Rather, I see that it may be at odds with the law proposed by Mrs Ellemeet. Who can take the final decision on how this directive will or will not be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u10	Okay, I'll get it better. I think the Minister's trying to souffle me, but I'll answer first. In terms of influence, it's not that I'm just calling what the caregivers in a nursing home say "it's got to be like this" and that's how it's done. Our concern is that you have the conversation about how it can be implemented as wisely as possible. That conversation is held with a board of directors, but it is very wise for a board of directors to listen to the clients as well. I think it's about taking all the interests, angles and perspectives with you and not blind to that. Unfortunately, that is often the case now. Not only are some managements blind to the interests of clients, but they are also blind to the interests, influence and skills of caregivers. In the end, it's about hearing and weighing all these perspectives. It is not our intention, therefore, to say that the law does not state that the will of the caregivers is law. It's about being heard and taken seriously. You have to take that into account. I agree with Mrs Van den Berg that the perspective of the clients should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mrs Ellemeet quite rightly pointed out in her general introduction that it also has a great deal to do with cultural change. We can do it now. She gave examples of misses, but you might as well give examples of where it's already happening successfully, even without this law. So where would this make the difference? It is rightly said that there is a cultural problem in the care sector. We share that completely and we have to do something about it. So it's possible now. As far as we are concerned, this has more to do with the good will of the carers, who should be called upon to do so, than it would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u12	If I may give a bit of a faint answer: I will come back to that later in my speech. Mr. Chairman. That consideration and influence at the front when it comes to how to implement health standards and guidelines in an institution brings me to the following, namely a question from Mr Hijink. He asked why we didn't choose a term like "co-determination," which you see in the Works Councils Act, for example. That term "co-determination" is a term that implies a more formalized decision-making process. Moreover, it is about consent. But our law is about influence. This right of consent is defined for the works council and for the client council in specific cases. To make it more concrete, for example, the works council has the right to consent to working hours, to pay, to job evaluation and to training. The Client Council again has the right to consent to the policy on care plans or safety policy. Now I must say that this right of assent should not be exaggerated, because there are a lot of things that Mr Hijink probably knows better than I do when it comes to consulting or being informed and not being agreed at all. So that is something else. At the core, it's different. The vote is about being taken over and then formally allowed to find something of it, while we say: influence is right on the front. You want to be allowed to talk about that before all kinds of decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u13	I do not want to say that I am an expert in the field of works councils, but I have had to deal with it for a long time. It is precisely the Law on Works Councils that includes advisory rights. This right of consultation is only exhaustive: Article 27... is much wider, on more points. That right of advice shall apply in the case of a proposed decision. What Mrs Ellemeet is saying is right: you need to be able to talk in front. This is already covered by the Works Councils Act. As a CDA, we really have a dilemma with regard to what is already possible and what this law would do extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u14	I am really going to go back to that in greater detail; I promise you that. But when it comes to the difference between participation and influence, because that is the term we are using here, then we are talking about something else. In order to make that more concrete, because this is still quite abstract, I would like to give the example of a medical staff. Actually, every hospital has a medical staff. That influence is exactly what those medical rods have and what a lot of nurses don't have. So that is not about the right of consent; that is another kind of influence. That medical staff can talk about all kinds of things. It also has an enormous influence and affects all kinds of decisions of a hospital. I think this is a good example of the influence that doctors already have, but we note that nurses, physiotherapists, caregivers and so on, who in many places do not yet have at all. That is the difference between participation and influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u15	That difference is clear to me. As SP we would like to go much further, but that is not the issue right now; I understand that. The question is: Influence is a very easy concept. Perhaps Mrs Ellemeet will come to that later. Influence can mean that an employer goes around the hall and asks people: "Gooh, what do you think of this?" Then you have something of influence. Or you can formalize that very much with consultations, surveys and so on. That's quite an easiest understanding. What are the proposers actually looking at? What degree of influence is sufficient, in the eyes of the proposers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u16	I am just at the next block, so I can deliver on the promise I made to Mrs Van den Berg right now. Of course, that is also Mr Hijink's question: what exactly are we talking about? That also has to do with the open standard. The question is about that one can generally formulate that there should be influence for caregivers. Mr Hijink rightly asks: what exactly is that and when are we satisfied? I'll come back to what I said in my introduction. Look, we have also asked this question to all those caregivers: what do you want, what would help you best? Should we be recording what that influence is? For example, that every healthcare institution should have a nursing advisory board, or a professional advisory board? Does every care facility need a chief nursing officer? Honesty commands that we were initially a little bit on that track: perhaps that should be it. Then we put it back with a lot of different carers and they said: don't do that. The reason for this is that they also say that they want a culture change. This legal obligation to give caregivers influence can best contribute to this. We differ on what would work well in one institution and not in the other. For example, I have spoken with a chief nursing officer and other caregivers in an institution who said: that works very well with us; the board listens and takes us seriously. Caregivers in another institution said: that is not what we want at all; we do not want a Chief Nursing Officer at all, but we want to organise it in a different way. They said, "Don't fill out that how." I understand that, too. There are 1.4 million people working in healthcare, and there are huge differences between the ggz sector, hospital care institutions and the vvt sector. There is a risk that you will miss the point if you put it all equally for everyone that you have to meet, so you are going to fill in those requirements. There is also a risk that this is also a very serious concern of caregivers that you will continue to bureaucratize it, so that it leads to even more checklists and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u17	I very much agree. They're different organizations. You can't put everyone in the same mold and make a checklist. I understand all that. We shouldn't have that either. The question is: By putting the influence that carers must have with an article into the law, it must also be verifiable. Someone's about to check, probably the inspection, whether caregivers at a particular location have had an impact on a particular healthcare provider. On what basis do you make the assessment that it is sufficient or insufficient? Because, like I said, it's subjective. It's an easy term. What one finds a lot of influence, the other finds very little and of what the other finds very little, some will say: that is actually far-reaching influence that you have had there. Apart from the fact that I understand that you can't shut it down, my question is: how do you make sure that putting this article, the supervisor or the inspection can soon see that there has been enough influence given to healthcare professionals? How are you gonna test that if it's not clear exactly what that influence is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u18	I think it's basically about whether you want to know if caregivers feel heard, are taken seriously and can make a difference in decisions that are taken. To put it concretely, how does the inspection monitor? We know that's often risk-driven. So I can imagine very well, I try to fill it out for a moment. If an incident occurs somewhere, the inspection goes there and in the conversations also looks at how it really is, how the influence is secured and whether mistakes could be avoided, for example, if caregivers were better listened to. I'm trying to make it as concrete as possible. You could do that if you're a supervisor. In the end, of course, it is about the conversation that has to take place between the management and people in the workplace about how things are going. So it will also come down to evaluating yourself once in a while within your own organisation: how are things going? Fortunately, the field itself is already working to see how you can give hands and feet to that influence; that also brings us to that governance code. I will come back to this in more detail later, but that is, of course, a directive; it is voluntary and it is not enforced. So you see the frontrunners "walk away" in a positive sense. The stragglers think, "Bye, I don't feel like it." Of course, the fact that you can still be a straggler and that you can say "such a governance code, I didn't think so" is exactly what we want to avoid with this law. But Mr Hijink's question is quite right. Honesty also requires saying that there is not one easy answer to that. So it's a dilemma. Are you gonna fill things out and then have your checklist so you can check if it's fulfilled? Or are you gonna talk to each other in that institution and talk to each other about how things are going there? Such a governance code can help and I believe that the Minister and therefore the inspection can also play a role in this. I think that's a conversation you need to have permanently. Of course, you can already see that there are good examples. So what do you care as an institution to check on the neighbor? Then you can say that you are going to do so or that you have taken a good look at it and that it does not fit well with your own institution. The complicated thing is that it's about cultural change. I think we all know that cultural change is not something you can capture or embed entirely into a structure so that it does. As all those caregivers point out, the fact that you are legally obliged to organise that influence is going to help in that desired culture change. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. The next point is also in line with this. We are actually giving the care providers and the healthcare providers the room to work on this in a sensible way. But Mr Hijink also asked: what if the results are left behind or if we see in subsequent evaluations that the desired results are lacking? We're also evaluating that governance code. I find it very interesting that, in the last evaluation of that governance code, we saw that the real influence lies with nurses and caregivers. What did you see in that evaluation? We actually want to be able to talk a little bit at the back to have real influence at the front. You can see that this desired development is increasingly taking place with medical rods. But where is it far too little? At the VAR, at the PAR. So it doesn't happen to those doctors again. We have said that we want to review this law in three years' time. That's quite fast, but that's also for that reason: you want to see if it's more influential. Mr Hijink says: if that does not happen, then what? Shouldn't we have a stick behind the door? I hope that's not necessary. I really hope and expect that this law will have an impact, that it will no longer be voluntary and that there will be another look at that governance code and those who are left behind, because they know that otherwise they will have a problem. After all, they have a legal obligation and they didn't have it at first. Suppose some directors stick their heads in the sand and do little, what can you do? Mr Hijink has put forward an amendment: if this evaluation shows that there is still not enough progress, you, as a minister, should still have the power to lay down detailed rules. Again, I hope that won't be necessary, but I do understand that you might need a stick behind the door after all. In fact, healthcare providers and healthcare providers say, let us go. Maybe this is some kind of extra reason to think: it's not going to happen to me that we need that stick behind the door in a moment. To sum up, I think it would be wise to amend that in our law. So we say, "We leave it open. But if it appears from the evaluation that you have still not made enough progress, the Minister is going to lay down detailed rules." Of course, she does so in a sensible way and with all the information that comes out of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u19	That was your appreciation of the amendment to item No. 12 from Mr Hijink?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u21	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u22	I'm struggling a little with the stick behind the door. I noticed in the first term that we all do that a little bit. I'm struggling with that, too, because I know nurses don't always get the same control, because doctors don't want to share it. So the stick behind the door towards caregivers I understand very well. But it's not giving up power, it's better shaping the care process with each other. I'm also a little bit looking for how we make sure that the stick behind the door at "the doctors" is there too for a very short time, so that they realize: participation of caregivers also makes my work better, and thus also the outcome for patients or residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u23	The interesting thing is that at the institutions where they did, you see the following. If you have the legal obligation in a moment, something will happen; I am convinced of that. You can also see that doctors are sometimes very hesitant at first and think, "I'm not gonna give up anything." If they do, it doesn't turn out to be giving up, but it's an improvement in care. That was also a question from Mr Hijink. He said: if you have a law in a moment and it's more worked out in the governance code, don't you think people will stop complying with that governance code? The interesting thing is that the organisations that already comply with the governance code do not want to get rid of it at all. They all see, including the doctors, that it doesn't take anything from them, but that it adds something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u24	After the firm instruction to Mrs Van den Berg I thought: I wait. But in my opinion, Mrs Ellemeet and I agree that doctors with experience in the area of control of health care professionals in the workplace no longer want to go back. But how do you see that when it comes to the stick behind the door? Because that reads and listens very much like "direction the driver," while we both know that doctors have a big finger in the proverbial porridge in many places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u25	That is why I am referring to the evaluation and I think it is so important that we do not do it now, but that you only do it if those who are left behind are still left behind. I expect such an evaluation to provide information on what works and what does not, more than the information we have now. Then, on the basis of good examples, the Minister can first decide at which level of abstraction to lay down detailed rules. Of course, that's super important. But then she can also decide what is wise to do. My expectation is that this evaluation will provide a lot of information to answer Mrs Paulusma's question, namely when something is sensible to do and when not. Mr President, I shall continue. Mrs Agema, Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Hijink had therefore asked questions about the governance code and what the added value of our initiative law in relation to that code is. I have already mentioned part of it: this code is not binding, it is not enforced, and we see that it is precisely the frontrunners who meet it, but that a lot of healthcare providers do not yet do so and that our law is no longer voluntary. You just can't be a straggler anymore. That is the case now. In that sense, we commit something and give the code handles for how to organise that control. It is of course very nice that it is already there, that it is good and that it has improved compared to the previous one. I would say that the law and the code are complementary to each other. The law says you have to do it. The code provides handles for how to organize that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg and Mrs Agema were still wondering whether this law would not lead to additional consultation structures and more consultation, which we all do not want because we have already organised many consultations. That is absolutely not the intention of this bill. That doesn't say anything either. I mean, there are already more than enough consultation structures. The most important thing is that the quality of these consultations should be improved. I have an example to make that concrete. I spoke to a chairman of a board of directors of a large nursing home institution. Who told me they had regular meetings on quality reports. In fact, there were never any neighborhood nurses or nurses. She loved it, twice a year with all those spreadsheets and then she had all the numbers. Then you feel like you're in control. But she said that at some point she had thought of asking people from the workplace. She said: that was so much better, because that allowed me to immediately ask how that works, what they see in practice and how they experience it, and how they explain it when we score badly at something. So the joke was that that was an existing consultation, that qualitatively just got much better when caregivers were also asked. There's another example I liked, too. I've been talking about this vitality policy. Of course, it's kind of weird that you're making a lot of vitality policy and asking everyone else to do it, except for the caregivers. The chairman of the nurse advisory board said, "Is it an idea I'm joining?" The answer was: yes, well, we don't know if that's wise. He said he literally had to bring his own chair to the meeting. He said, "We'll do it this way; I'll be there, and if you think it's useful after this meeting, I'll stick with it, and if no, as good friends. So it turned out to be very useful, because of course he had all kinds of ideas and insights from the practice that the others didn't have. So these are two examples I'm giving you with which I'm actually trying to explain that it's not about more consultation, but about better consultation. It's also about people experiencing that it gets better if you let caregivers talk. Mrs Kuik said that it is possible, of course, that you have different interests. That is also a bit in line with what Mrs Van den Berg said. Mrs Van den Berg mentioned the interests of the clients and Mrs Kuik spoke about the interests of the directors and the caregivers. What's that? Well, we certainly do not say that the will of the caregivers is always law, but it is about knowing and taking all the perspectives with you. It often happens that the management simply has no idea of the perspective of the caregivers. So it's about weighing up your interests and explaining them sometimes you don't go along with the wish of a district nurse, for example, why you don't. It is therefore a question of knowledge, influence and balance of interests. Mr Hijink also asked whether we should not focus more broadly on the control of healthcare providers. He talked about "more than the quality of care," so actually things that transcend care in an institution. I don't know if he remembers himself; I see him looking a little hard. I thought that was a pretty good question. Only, that question is outside the scope of this law. I would therefore say that you would like to take the receptionist, the ICT and others with you, so to speak, when it comes to decisions that transcend the quality of care, but that is beyond the scope of this law. It may be that we, as proposers, are not entirely in line with this, but that is not a bad thing, because that is not what our law is about. That is what I wanted to answer. Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Van den Hil then asked how the structural changes and cultural change relate to each other. Let me start by saying that this is a bit of an open door that cultural change cannot be caught in structures. I wish. We'd have had a cultural change in the police department, and in the care sector, and here, too. In all kinds of places. It is not that simple, but there must of course be room within the structures for this cultural change. In fact, the structures must promote cultural change. You can say that about the way those two relate to each other. So it is also the drivers who need to understand that the influence of healthcare professionals is important. They also need to create room for that. On the other hand, caregivers must also be heard. I also found that very interesting in all the conversations I had with healthcare professionals: they also looked at their own professional group quite critically. They said: yes, this is very necessary, but we ourselves must become more empowered and let us hear more. There is also a real awareness of this among different groups of caregivers. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a final question from Mrs Paulusma. How will it become clear that the law applies to all healthcare professionals? After all, we often talk about nurses and nurses. The law is indeed about all caregivers. It was Mrs Van den Hil who really gave a very nice list of many different caregivers who also want to have that influence. I don't know if that list was complete, but I'm sure it's very helpful. Of course, it varies enormously from one organization to another. The reason why we often talk about nurses and nurses is because they are the backbone of many organisations. That's an understanding I often hear back. For example, nurses say proudly: we just run this department; with all due respect, but that psychiatrist comes by occasionally, as a sort of consultant, and is gone. That's why. They just form a very large group, which is poorly heard. But it is certainly true that this law is about more than just about nurses and nurses. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u26	Fine. A critical question from Mrs Westerveld. Keep your head down, will you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u27	I thought Mrs Ellemeet would also deal with supervision and enforcement, but then my critical questions will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u28	Yeah, you'd be brave, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u29	By the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u30	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I am responsible for the second part of the answer to the questions. Before I dive into it, I will also give you a brief personal introduction. Of course, I'm a lucky guy. After all the preparatory work done by my group colleagues Sophie Hermans, Hayke Veldman and Aukje de Vries, I can defend this initiative legislative proposal here with Mrs Ellemeet and debate it with colleagues in the Chamber. That's very nice in itself. That is why from here on, thanks to those group members, to Mrs Ellemeet, to Mr Daniel de Rijke and, of course, to Engelina Kuik, our VVD employee who has been involved from the very beginning. Thank you. It's all very nice because it's about this subject: control for care professionals. The subject is very close to my heart. After my first year in medicine, I did an internship as a nurse at the local hospital in Zevenaar. Since that summer, both during my studies and in my graduation research, as well as during later work for healthcare organisations, including V&VN, the professional association for nurses, I have been concerned about the position of nurses and other healthcare professionals. I still felt that they should be taken much more seriously, should have much more position in the broad area of care. I believe in the commitment and skill of all those professionals, and I think it is very honorable that I should now be able to submit this law, because the law contributes to the position that suits me, let me call it a mission. Mr. Hijink called this law a simple law in his first term. And I've been thinking that I actually think that's a very nice name. It is a law without too many bells and whistles, simple and simple, and with that in our eyes it is powerful and effective: a simple law that contributes to an important mission. It's a nice day, Mr. Chairman. And again tomorrow, because tomorrow is the birthday of Florence Nightingale, the day we declared Day of Nursing. What a good time for this debate today! I'll go into the questions in three blocks. Firstly, the consequences of the bill, then monitoring and enforcement, and then a block of varia. Always nice to say, I think. Mrs Westerveld has asked a number of questions about how this proposal really guarantees that healthcare professionals can participate. It is good to mention that this is already going well in many healthcare institutions. They have a nursing counselor or a chief nursing officer, but they are often hospitals and large healthcare institutions. There are still quite a few organisations where nuclear disciplines, such as nurses, still have too little influence and control. Mrs Ellemeet already spoke about the Health Governance Code 2022, in which a whole chapter is devoted to participation, influence and advice. This code is first and foremost a guiding and living document for the sector itself. It is an instrument to organise governance, i.e. governance and participation in such a way that it contributes to ensuring good care. That is a form of self-regulation. In particular, the public authorities must provide sufficient space for organisations to implement their own social objectives. This also affects a question by Mrs Agema on this subject. In the end, it's about people working on it themselves. Headrunners are already doing that. Mrs Ellemeet mentioned it. It is the organisations that healthcare professionals can talk to in many ways. But there are still too many organisations that are too behind. We believe that this governance code and this initiative law are mutually reinforcing. The code indicates how participation and control can be completed. This bill says it has to be done. Stayers get a nice word "bad" in order to actually arrange this. Mrs Westerveld also suggested that the Chief Nursing Officer be made compulsory. Mrs Ellemeet has already spoken about the open standard. We do not want this open standard because we want it so badly, although I would like it myself, but because the field, the nurses and all the other health professionals are turning it in themselves. The formal form of control leaves a lot of opportunities unexploited. We would regret that. Is it sufficiently clear to workers what they are expected to do with the introduction of this standard? Do employees soon know what they are allowed to ask and demand from their employer? Mrs. Kuik asked for that. Here we are going to see the strengthening effect between the governance code and the law. The open standard gives scope to the directives, the how, and the governance code thus gives influence to stakeholders. It is precisely the simplicity of the law, "the simple law," that makes it clear that employees can say themselves: "Hello, I may have influence. I'm allowed to talk. Give me that too." By legalizing it, we're offering a legal stick behind the door so they can claim that place as well. Westerveld, Van den Berg and Hijink asked about examples of how this bill can improve practice. Mrs Ellemeet has already mentioned a lot of them, but I also had to think very much about the early months of the covid pandemic. Hospitals had to transform the internal organisation at a really fast pace. They had to set up separate covid departments and patients had to be spread out. A lot of hospitals set up, logically, a crisis policy team. But in interviews with nurses a year ago, we heard nurses say, "Yes, but we didn't even know those crisis policy teams existed." Incredible almost, because nurses belong to it and could have played a good role. Later in the crisis we saw that nurses managed to get that place on such a team and immediately you saw the positive effects on the workplace, on the hospital floors and in the ICUs. Speaking of English, one of the nurses we talked about said: nothing about us without us. In other words, why don't you bring us in, and we'll just get better? Another good example is the use of smart blood pressure meters in the OLVG in Amsterdam, which store data directly in patient files. Especially when it's a crisis and the workload is increasing, it's nice to be able to relieve the workload and remove administration. We also see these effects more widely within organisations. Also at the OLVG, nurses have been asked since last year to advise on decisions involving only the medical staff and the patient council. We hear a lot of positive reactions from both nurses and that medical staff and the patients' councils. Mrs Ellemeet referred to this as well. Mrs. Kuik asked how we're gonna make sure that control doesn't come on top of all the other work. I think we are making it clear that we are convinced that this is not more work, but actually less work. It's nice that Corona has given an impetus to that emancipation, that's what I call it, but we should have been ahead of that. All hands on deck must also be on deck, especially in a crisis like we have experienced over the last two years. Not only do we want organisations that are already leading the way when it comes to control, but certainly the organisations that are still behind, and I mentioned them just now that they need to get a push and then a bill helps. Of course, we are also looking to the future, to the catching-up that needs to be provided as a result of the covid pandemic. Mrs Agema mentioned some things about this in her contribution. Catch-up care is putting increasing pressure on, for example, neighbourhood care, general practitioners' practices and the overall shortage of care in the labour market. Care workers in the workplace need to be given the space to think and decide how we can continue to meet these challenges. They know how daily practice works. They know where the spokesmen are. And they know where to go smarter. Please let us make sure that they think about how care can be smarter, so that it remains manageable for employees and patients can continue to receive loving care. This also affects what Mrs Westerveld said about control and what happens when something goes wrong in an institution. As far as we are concerned, greater control is needed to prevent large things from going wrong in an institution. By the way, this law is not a magic wand either. Ultimately, it is a combination of different factors in which good governance also has a role to play. With this bill, we want to give the board more control to do it right. Then there were some questions about the supervisory boards. Should we not arrange for them to be discussed twice a year, for example, with the participation council, or with any other form of participation? This is a proposal from Mrs Westerveld. In the explanatory statement, we have indicated that we would like this initiative law to reflect the different contexts of healthcare institutions. The complete formalisation of structures does not do justice to that. However, we consider it important for a supervisory board to review whether participation bodies are consulted or should be consulted on important decisions. The good governance supervisory framework of the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the NZa was updated in 2020 for the internal supervision component. In this renewed framework, responsibilities for the Supervisory Board have been strengthened and further deepened. In the Supervisory Board section, the IGJ and the NZa have identified six themes, one of which is about transparent and balanced decision-making and public accountability. In practice, this means that the Supervisory Board collects good information in a timely manner, including in dialogue with internal and external stakeholders. We do not think it is a good idea to close down or consult twice, three times or once a year. Depending on the context of the care organisation, this can bring more pressure. That's why we just leave that open. Mrs Ellemeet already gave the example of a board of directors who had a discussion with large lists twice a year. At the time the caregivers themselves sat at the table, it turned out that one year was enough to actually improve care. So, please, let's keep that freedom and space. Moreover, the framework also states that in the case of major decisions of the Management Board, the internal supervisor will assess whether the Management Board has organised participation and conflict in a timely manner and has carefully weighed interests. In our view, these aspects of the framework mean that care professionals as internal stakeholders should also be consulted in decision-making processes. The NZa and the Health and Youth Inspectorate indicate their intention to emphasise this in their supervisory tasks. So that is also a way of monitoring and enforcement. Some of the MPs, including Mrs Westerveld, had further questions about supervision. I told you, the supervisory board is the internal supervisor. There is a whole framework for that. The Management Board is ultimately responsible for quality, safety and continuity of care within an institution. The Supervisory Board is responsible for general matters in the care organisation. They should jointly ensure that the new Article 3 of the Wkkgz is actually reflected. In addition, as an external supervisor, we have the Health and Youth Inspectorate, which monitors the quality and safety of care. She checks whether caregivers and directors act responsibly and professionally within laws, standards and regulations, including the Wkkgz, i.e. the law we are talking about today and which we would like to extend. So there is a lot of legislation and regulation. There are field standards. There is a policy framework. On this basis, the Supervisory Board has broad supervisory powers. So we expect a lot of that. The adaptation of Article 3 of the Wkkgz actually extends the supervisory powers of the Supervisory Board. As we said, the governance code provides tools to further shape this supervision. Mr Hijink asked how supervisors could assess the criterion in the law. According to the General Administrative Law Act and the Wkkgz, supervisors, such as the IGJ, the NZa and supervisory boards, have to supervise good care. This initiative legislative proposal extends Article 3 of the Wkkgz and thus, as I said, the powers of the supervisory authorities. After all, they must ensure compliance with the law, including the involvement of the caregivers. They can check them by reading interview reports, attending meetings or simply having conversations with the caregivers. By proposing an open standard, care organisations are free to organise a consultation structure that best suits the healthcare provider. Therefore, supervision may be different for each care organisation, but the criterion to be checked by supervisors is the same for each care organisation. Moreover, the evaluation of the Wkkgz showed that the law itself is already well respected. As far as we are concerned, that is a good basis for finding this article in it. Mr Hijink also indicated that he was afraid that an autonomous director who prefers to go his own way could still go his own way. At least that's my paraphrasing of his input. Of course, Mr. Hijink is right that there are always loopholes where people can deliberately swim through. We think the simplicity of this simple law makes that very difficult. The simplicity makes the law easy to implement by drivers and enforce by inspection. The simplicity also makes it very clear to the employees whether or not the law is being complied with. By simplicity, the law invites the employees to initiate the necessary cultural change. I'd say handsome driver who can resist that pressure from the inside and from the outside. I look forward with Mr. Hijink to giving those drivers a boost in the right direction in the coming time. Is that even feasible? That is a question many had, including Mrs van den Berg. The IGJ has a controlling task based on the Health Act and the Youth Act and has to check that caregivers and drivers act responsibly and professionally within the laws, standards and regulations. The IGJ conducts quality interviews with major healthcare providers each year and in the supervision of those healthcare providers it will thus become part of the conversations that the IGJ is already having with the healthcare providers of the respective provider. In addition, the IGJ supervises risks and incidents. With risk monitoring, she proactively collects information to gain insight into the risks that apply care-wide. Analysis of this results in risk profiles and also reports of incidents, abuses and recurring shortcomings. Anyone can make such a report and healthcare providers are obliged to report certain incidents. If the IGJ finds that the quality of care is insufficient or that due to weaknesses in the care process the risk of avoidable harm is too high, it has several sanctions, such as an order or an administrative fine. And you can imagine that what we have said here about the influence of healthcare providers on the quality of care is a means that the inspection will also look at. Mrs Kuik said, and of course we fully agree with that, that it is especially important that the work be more pleasant and that the workload cannot be increased, even if another article of law is added. How can the inspection monitor this? If you look at reports from, among other things, the Economic and Social Council and the SZW Inspection and outflow reports, it becomes very clear that the lack of control over the work.... I myself like to call that "boss over own job'.... is a great reason for reduced job fun and outflow from care. In this respect, the district nursing in Utrecht is a nice and illustrative example. One of the home care workers of a large healthcare organisation came to apply to another care organisation and the answer to the question why she actually wanted to leave her current organisation was: "I have a very nice job. I take care of the elderly at home and I especially liked that I could make my own planning. But a while ago, management came up with the idea that they should hire planners. That wasn't discussed with us. And now I can't even plan for myself anymore." So she has no influence on her own work schedule and no influence on the decision that was made to hire planners. Well, I think that's exactly what we're trying to avoid with this article of law. By the way, this lady is now very happy to work at the other organisation, where she takes care and makes her own plans and also participates in and participates in all kinds of other matters that are also important for the care. We are convinced that this law contributes to improving both the working pleasure and the reduction of the workload. And we therefore think it is a good idea, as Mrs Kikken said at least in her first term, to include the aspects of 'work fun' and 'work pressure' in the review in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'll come back to the inspection. I hear from many professionals: keep it simple; let us also do our work and let it also be a cultural change that we can enforce with this. But you mention the inspection, and I'll be a little searching. The law has some kind of open framework or some kind of open standard. Then what's the inspection gonna check on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u33	I hear what Mrs Paulusma says, and I can actually see the checklists emerging. And that's exactly what we don't want. What's the inspection on? That is: is there any influence and influence of the caregivers on the care process, on the purpose of good care? That is, I think, especially just a qualitative test. This must therefore be addressed in the annual interviews which the inspection carries out with the healthcare organisations. Then the question is very simple: is there influence and control by healthcare providers? You can ask that question to the board of directors, but of course you will also have to ask the caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u34	I share that with Mrs Tielen. I always see all kinds of checklists coming along, but I'm always worried about the execution. What are we sending people out with? And that goes for inspection, of course. Then this sounds very much like an open end towards the inspection, namely: fill it in. But, of course, we want them to do their job well in the end, so that we can also evaluate the work and participation of the professionals we are talking about today, and actually improve the work and participation of the professionals we are talking about today. Can you, therefore, be more specific about what you think this law is going to help the inspection and implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u35	It's just that high-quality annual interview. In itself, I do not think it is complicated at all; the question is very clear. The inspection asks the institution: does your institution comply with Article 3 of the Wkkgz? In other words, does the healthcare provider allow the caregivers who provide care to their clients to influence the policies implementing the first paragraph, i.e. good care? It's a high-quality annual interview. I believe that the inspection is quite capable of not only setting a lot of ticks, but also of using the qualitative annual interviews to understand the quality of care, the way in which the administration, the governance, is regulated in the institution, and to draw a conclusion to that. I wouldn't want to flatten it in a traffic light scheme or in pluses and minuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u36	I am going to ask you about this, because both your colleague, Mr Ellemeet and yourself, talk a lot about cultural change. That is a very difficult process in the care sector. I could imagine that in that qualitative conversation with the inspection a driver would say yes to a lot of questions that might be a little complicated in the organisation. What I often say, then, is that we talk very often about escalation here in the Chamber, so if something has gone wrong, if the inspection has to say... Well, we can think of a lot of examples of this. I certainly agree with Mrs Tielen when she says "no checklists." But how do we ensure that we don't end up in this escalation from the first conversation that doesn't allow us to do what we're actually trying to do here with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u37	For that there are a lot of handles in the Governance Code Care that the inspection can use. But it is also about the quality of the inspection itself. Quite frankly, I don't ask a lot of questions about that. I believe that the qualitative annual interviews on the basis of Article 3 of the Wkkgz already provide a great deal of information that the inspection can weigh well. The caregivers are of course also present. It is precisely its simplicity that makes it easier for the inspection to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u38	My question is somewhat in line with Mrs Paulusma's questions, because I am struggling with them a little bit. I think you should be able to give the inspection a clear grasp. Maybe there'll be some more explanation. The inspection will do the qualitative interview. But what one in one situation likes, the other in exactly the same situation can appreciate and even experience differently. How is it handled? Because Mrs Tielen goes back to the governance code for how you could do it. But then I think: why don't we all encourage that governance code to be implemented much better? Because it is already supported by a lot of institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u39	What Mrs Van den Berg says well is that everyone can experience it differently. With qualitative standards, of course, that is always the case. I really want to avoid trying to get it into a digital "good or not good" discussion, precisely because it needs a cultural change. We sometimes feel the need to catch it in some kind of good or wrong, but I think we should try to let that go. The article in the Wkkgz is very clear; I have just read it. It is about influence and control of employees, care professionals, in their healthcare organisation. I think we should keep it there, too. The governance code can help you fill it in. If in the qualitative year's talk the idea is "I don't quite know if this organization is still doing well," you can ask further questions. Then you can go ask someone else. I think we should give the inspection the room to normalize it ourselves, to make a quality test for it, including for itself. But let's not say here, from this Chamber, this is plus and this is minus, and if it's a little sister, we'll round it up to plus and otherwise at minus. In my opinion, then, we are completely ignoring the power that this article of law can have on precisely this culture change. At first, I was a little shocked by that governance code: actually, it might be further than we thought. Mr Hijink also referred to this in his first term. I actually think it is right, especially in view of the use of the words and phrases contained in that governance code, that without the law there is already a bit of a cultural change going on. So I'm very optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u40	One of the assumptions in this bill, which I very much agree with, is that professionals, who really have the knowledge of content, know well how to carry out the work. Mrs Ellemeet has, of course, already given a few examples of this. That's also under this bill. If we go through this, of course, that also means that decisions will be better if directors and supervisors are also aware of the content. That is why one of my first questions was: would it not be much better if the employees, for example, chose the members of the Supervisory Board, so that there is a commitment and hopefully there will be experts there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u41	It is true that Mrs Westerveld asked for it. To be honest, I think it's actually outside the scope of our bill. That's the easy part. I also do not know whether we are fully respecting the position of the Supervisory Board. The easy thing is to say now "it's outside the scope, so we're not talking about it," but I'm still inclined to say something about it. I think that if members of the Supervisory Board are chosen only by the employees, this can also give a disbalance in the way in which the Supervisory Board should carry out its supervisory role. So I think it's a nice thought, even if it's outside the scope. I do think it needs a little more thought-through to actually embrace it, so I'm not gonna do that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u42	In other laws, e.g. education laws, participation does have the right to make a binding nomination for one member of the Supervisory Board. That was not the question I asked in the first term, but that is a question which arose from this answer. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on whether it might be an idea to do so in health care laws as well. It is precisely in education legislation that it has come to improve the link between members of the Supervisory Board and the workplace. I liked it there. That is why it has been extended to various educational laws. Would that perhaps be something to apply in care laws as well? I understand very well that Mrs Tielen does not want to go into that out of her head, but perhaps the Minister can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u43	That shows the value of debates, Mr President. We exchange thoughts with each other and sometimes come up with new ideas, sometimes good ones and sometimes less good ones. I'd like to embrace the suggestion of referring it to the minister. Thank you to Mrs Westerveld for that. I had another cup of varia, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Van den Hil asked about the administrative burden. I've already said a few things about that. Indeed, I must say that administrative burden is certainly a major thorn in my eyes in the care field. It's a big problem. We are not going to solve that with this bill, but we are convinced that it can make a positive but small contribution to it. First of all, the legislative proposal itself does not create an additional administrative burden. I've been talking about the annual interviews. They already exist. Please don't have any extra ticking lists, forms or other documents flowing. We are also convinced that the bill can contribute to less burdens, because professionals themselves have more influence on what can and cannot be administered. After all, a lot of administration does not come from national laws or rules, but from organisations themselves. By putting professionals in a position, they can also better assess whether administration is useful and perhaps also decide to ignore things and thus create more attention and space for care for patients and clients. I am really convinced that this will at least give us a positive boost to these kinds of movements. Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Agema also mentioned the overhead costs in some organisations. For our part, too, it is possible for professionals to take a more critical look at the overhead in relation to the primary process. There too, we expect a positive but modest result for these organisations. Mrs Van den Berg also asked: should we not impose more demands on directors and supervisors in the care sector? And personally, and I think that Mrs van den Berg and I agree with each other, I think that the bar should always be high, even in this case. And I think he's already in there. So my question to Mrs Van den Berg would actually be: is that the biggest problem now? Are the requirements too low and what requirements should they contribute to the solution? This bill is mainly aimed at improving the quality of care by creating more influence from the healthcare professionals themselves. We expect this to lead to a cultural change. And I think Mrs Van den Berg and I find each other in a culture where quality of care is at the top and the influence of professionals has a firm position. In such a culture, you must be able to be a director or supervisor. It is my expectation that the bar will then automatically be a bit higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u44	I do, of course, feel challenged to explain that further. As I pointed out in the October labour market debate, Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Tielen quite rightly say 'it is a cultural problem'. And I'm saying that this culture problem is at the top. It has to do something there; it has to steer the organisation differently. So I'm saying if you want to be a care manager or a care supervisor, you're gonna have to have some kind of good-worker registration before you can become one. For, once again, it is indeed a cultural problem and I do indeed think that the bar for caregivers of the large institutions may be high in relation to the issue of financial knowledge, but not in relation to this document.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u45	As far as direction is concerned, Mrs van den Berg said it very nicely: perhaps the problem is not only at the top, but at least the solution should be partly at the top. As far as we are concerned, the simplicity of this law is that it becomes clear what the position of professionals should be and that as a director or supervisor you only have to accept that that is the norm. I'm a little hesitant to make all kinds of ticking lists for that, but that might be personal. There were some questions about the rates of Mrs Van den Hil and Mrs Paulusma. They said: we are a little afraid of this in the sense that if influence is going to cost time and money, the employer must also make time and money available for it, and if it does not, then it will not happen. What that means for the rates, I like to pass on to the Minister. I hope she will be able to get back to that in a moment, but from discussions we had, it turned out that a lot of managers of smaller and larger health care organisations said that it actually earns itself back very quickly. Giving opportunity to create participation in any consultation body has almost a positive feedback loop. That is again the cultural aspect, but as far as the tariff aspect is concerned, I would ask the Minister to deal with it. By laying down in the law that this influence is needed, we no longer have room for employers' excuses that it really cannot be done. It's just a matter of getting settled. The legislator is legally obliged to create room for this. Both the IGJ and the NZa look at the administrative framework. Of course, the law leaves room for the employer to implement it which suits the organisation. We have discussed this in detail. We therefore expect employers to be encouraged to do so in a way that suits their organisation well. One of the biggest problems facing employers at the moment is the outflow of professionals and the deficits they have to solve within their own organization. On the other hand, the main reason for outflow is lack of participation and not being boss over own job. So I think we're helping employers with this law to get two birds in one stone. That was my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u46	It's highly appreciated. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister in her role as advisor to the proposers. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to be here so soon for the second time. We also agreed with each other that we would try to keep the momentum going so that we can finish this. I will answer the questions. I will start with a general introduction and then come to the issues that have been raised. I hope to be able to do that at once. Mr. Chairman. In fact, at the time of the covid crisis, care workers, in particular nurses and nurses, were not sufficiently involved in the decision-making process of their work. This is extremely important for creating sufficient control. I agree. The bill states that influence can contribute not only to job fun, but also to the maintenance of care workers. I think that's important, too. When healthcare professionals bring expertise into decision-making from their own field of expertise, this results in quality, innovation and much-needed change in the profession. As a former care manager, I have been very much in favour of this and I am in my role as Minister. I think it is important that there is a noticeable change in the extent to which care workers experience control in the workplace. The aim of Mr Ellemeet and Mr Tielen's own-initiative proposal is to strengthen this influence. I wholeheartedly support that. The real strengthening of participation is more than just legislation. The Council of State also noted a number of issues in its opinion on the legislative proposal. This concerns, among other things, the question of whether the proposed legal provision actually contributes to the increased influence of health care workers. The Council stresses the need to invest first of all in a strategy to remove the practical obstacles to the exercise of influence by healthcare professionals. There are already policy initiatives aimed at removing these practical obstacles. I call it the Rural Action Plan Control and Resilience. This was prepared by V&VN, BPSW and employers' organisations to implement the Ellemeet/De Vries amendment adopted on 7 December 2021, which made 10 million extra available for recovery and control. In addition, funding has been made available within the VWS budget to boost the working agendas control of the NVZ, NFU, ActiZ, VGN and the Dutch ggz in the coming years. Both in the context of the amendment and the work agendas, the Chief Nursing Officer advised on how to monitor experienced control. This monitoring is important because the paths deployed are not non-binding and you can measure whether the routes actually contribute to the degree of control. The Chief Nursing Officer has been asked to advise on a cultural change, no matter how complicated that concept may be. The exploration control of Professor Van Gestel at the end of 2020 has shown that a lack of control is not only a problem of missing structures, but certainly also of organisational culture. In addition to these policy initiatives, the Health Governance Code was renewed on 1 January. That has been mentioned before. Again, the issue of control is clearly addressed. In addition, existing legislation, such as the Works Councils Act, which has already been discussed, already offers scope for exercising control. The initiative proposal, my policy commitment, the Health Governance Code 2022 and the existing legislation can, in my opinion, be seen as complementary. However, in view of the practical feasibility of the initiative proposal, I still have a number of concerns. I would like to bring it to the attention of the initiators. It's a lot of points of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yeah, I heard some worried noises coming from V-K.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u49	It's not that bad. As regards the scope of the legislative proposal, the initiators aim to ensure a broad functioning of the legislative proposal. For example, small care institutions are also covered by their operation. This means, for example, that a single-man case with two staff or a general practitioner with a doctor's assistant will also be covered by this bill. I doubt whether this obligation has any added value in such organisations. In an organisation where there is usually no management or board and where everyone works in one team, care and organizational matters are often coordinated. So that's what I'd like to give you. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the administrative burden and the regulatory burden. The initiators assume that this legislative proposal will not, or hardly, lead to any additional administrative burden. I agree that more influence from healthcare workers could indeed potentially contribute to reducing the administrative burden in the organisation. But I do have concerns as to whether this is actually the case in practice. The analysis of regulatory pressure by this proposal for an initiative has been outlined in the explanatory memorandum. There's no quantitative basis. It is, of course, also largely based on assumptions, whereas this is normally justified in quantitative terms. Several field parties also expressed their concerns during the internet consultation about the regulatory burden as a result of the legislative proposal. I would ask the initiators to think about how we can do this as best we can, especially in the implementation. As regards supervision and enforcement, the initiators mentioned that they spoke with IGJ and NZa supervisors. The overseer at the Wkkgz and therefore on this bill is indeed the IGJ. It is virtually impossible for the IGJ to visit all healthcare providers periodically. The IGJ's supervision is risk-driven. The monitoring of compliance with this legal obligation should therefore be further developed. You just noticed that I was a little busy in the discussion every now and then, because I do see opportunities for practical implementation. In my view, the IGJ can simply ask the driver: how do you know as a driver that you are using the Wkkgz properly? The driver has a lot of instruments to do that. I would therefore like to invite the directors to use these instruments in the light of this cultural change. Think of instruments like employee satisfaction research, to which you can simply add questions. Think of internal accreditations by external organisations that take place in the flesh. Think of a JCI or an HKZ accreditation. This is where an assessment is made of how an organisation's strategy is achieved. How easy is it to add the following question: to what extent and how did you involve your healthcare workers in this process? The IGJ may take note of the results of those accreditation pathways and thereby introduce supervision. I would also like to point out the conversations that are taking place, of course, with health insurers and health care agencies. They can also ask how the opinion and influence of the health care workers has been taken into account in the development of a certain range of care services. I would also like to invite the field to fill in this very pragmatically, in particular because of the regulatory pressure, by looking at the instruments already in place. I invented the example, I believe, the OLVG very nice and sympathetic: how difficult is it to add a seat when you look at quality reports? That makes it practical and we're going to do it. In conclusion, I propose that the House be allowed to decide on this bill. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mrs. Paulusma is standing by the interrupting microphone, but first you just finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u51	Okay. Two amendments have been tabled. The amendment in part No. 11 extends the possibility of exerting influence to areas other than policies that are directly relevant for contributing to the provision of good care. The amendment in part No. 12 provides the possibility to lay down detailed rules on how influence is exercised by general administrative action. I leave the opinion on these amendments to your Chamber, as well as the opinion on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u52	I was also making a bit of a fuss, because the Minister referred to the example of the chair. Actually, I found that a very painful example. Because it places on those professionals, who already have to work so hard and fight for participation, a constant responsibility to put that chair in. So I am curious about the Minister's reflection on my inconvenience in that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u53	I'll recognize that. I didn't mean it like that; let me put it this way. I mean more that I think that drivers already have a lot more opportunities to take their care workers seriously. One example that I always mention is: take your care workers seriously from the moment they become employees at your organization and ask after two or three months how they like the organisation. I can tell you that all of the organization's pains will come to light. At the time they leave, take your own time to speak to people, perhaps not with all of them, but with some of them to hear the reason for their departure. These are examples of how you can do that well in that culture. I will come back to the policy points later on to the question of how we can ensure that all drivers deal with this in this way. I think that question is also on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u54	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u55	I come to the policy initiatives. Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van den Hil asked about the amendment on EUR 10 million for recovery. The professional associations V&VN and BPSW and the employers NFU, NVZ, ActiZ, the Dutch ggz and VGN have drawn up an action plan for resilience and control for the 10 million euros needed for recovery. The aim of this Action Plan is to work on recovery and control by and for healthcare professionals in a sector-oriented way. Overarching, V&VN and employers see activities in front of them such as sharing good examples, reducing administrative burdens and creating space on the workplace to exercise actual control, for example through intervision or learning groups. An initial grant application is currently being examined for the project organisation of this action plan as well as for a number of defined projects, such as a learning line. The remaining budget is intended for the actual implementation of the Action Plan. This is currently the subject of a subsidy scheme. Then Mrs Westerveld raised the question of how the initiators and the minister look at working floor credit. Of course, it would be very good if drivers in the care sector would have more knowledge about the workplace, get there themselves and thus also be more present on the work floor. I also think it is important that drivers are and remain active in their own development. We have heard a number of examples of this. This is, of course, all about the influence that a driver can have in putting culture on that workplace. Drivers can really play an important role in the involvement and influence of healthcare professionals on the policies of healthcare institutions. I would also like to refer to the knowledge about control based on the study carried out by Professor Van Gestel in December 2020, which shows that the degree of control is also influenced by that culture. The promotion of control and the promotion of cultural change in the organisation requires a proactive attitude of the administration. Care workers should also experience the feeling that they can exert that influence in their daily work. For this reason, my predecessor has already asked the Chief Nursing Officer to give advice on this matter. I hope that advice will provide us with further guidance. I expect that advice in the second quarter of 2022. I have just given myself a number of examples of where I think this can be organised. The question is always whether we should prescribe this very explicitly; this question was also raised. I think that's a contradiction. If we are so keen on professionals with their professional autonomy, knowledge and skills, I think we should also give the directors the opportunity to introduce this into their organisation. But then we need to know what the quality of the drivers is. I'll go with that. There are good examples of this too. I mention the Dutch association of care administrators, which has developed the accreditation of directors, as well as the Dutch association of supervisors, who helps the supervisors in the care to understand how you exercise that supervision and how you see that you have a good driver who really does the good things. The supervisory authorities, like the IGJ, can and should also ask about how these care workers are involved. The regulators do that all the time. The IGJ is risk-driven, but the supervisors literally supervise that institution. So they have to ask. Where can I see that? What's the process like? We must also ask about the instruments that are being used. In my opinion, the new governance code is also a little more explicit that this is really the intention. I agree with the initiators. I'm also convinced that's gonna help. Mrs Westerveld asked about the law. She asked me when I'm going to take steps to get a good implementation of the bill. For this, of course, the legislative proposal must first be drawn up. As soon as I do, I'm gonna have a conversation to ensure good implementation. I would find it incredibly unfortunate, as is often the case with good intentions, when we talk about the good intentions, the culture that we would like within organisations when it comes to care workers, and in practice it is too bureaucratic and not intended to be carried out with a great deal of effort. I think it is important to be vigilant when it comes to implementation. Of course, a very fair question is: what is the relationship with formal participation structures? Mrs Westerveld asked whether a nursing advisory board or a nursing advisory board could be required for all health care institutions of a certain size. There are, of course, many different ways of shaping participation. I note that the initiators here have opted for a somewhat open standard. I've already made my conclusion on the bill, and with that, how I feel about it. I would add what I just said: I also think it is important that the way in which it is implemented in the care organisation also fits with that care organisation. That is also important for implementation, I think. I would also like to say that Mrs van den Berg's question is also an important question for me. What about the clients who receive care for 30 years, for example? It happens. There was even a client who received 50 years of care from my previous institution. It may have an arrangement outside the standard that the professional organisation currently prescribes. What about that client's right to the rights of the employees, who have already changed a number of times? I think both can exist side by side. There is of course also a renewed law co-determination clients. Also Article 2 of the Wkkgz, which is about good care, is of course a guarantee for that. But, of course, in the implementation, it must be clear that the interests of the client should not be affected by the interests of the employees in this respect. Both are equally important. I thought that was a very good question from you; that is what I wanted to say. Mrs Westerveld asked whether it was possible to go one step further by giving employees influence over the whole business operation. Participation is already fully enshrined in the law. The Constitution lays down the right to participation. That fundamental right has been developed and enshrined in the Law on Works Councils. The works council grants different rights under this law. These rights, for example, allow the works council to advise on important issues such as mergers and reorganisations. They also give the possibility to ask the board to proactively provide information to the works council. That's not unimportant either. Healthcare institutions must comply with these rules. Thus, with the current legal framework of rights, obligations and possibilities, the possibility of participation is already sufficiently secured. Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Westerveld also asked what I think about the lack of accountability of supervisors in the care sector. In my opinion, according to Wtza, the law admission healthcare providers......................................................................................................................................................................................... It is then up to the healthcare institution itself to choose a member of the internal supervisor. Moreover, this is not arbitrary; it is often secured in the statutes of the care organisation. Those statutes are not simply created; they are also established with the efforts and agreement of the or and the client council. In addition, of course, there is the governance code, which also offers more perseverance to the quality of supervisors. I also welcome the fact that both the Dutch Association of Supervisors and the Dutch Association of Supervisors and the National Supervisory Authorities, which is also working on the accreditation of directors, are working on the quality of supervisors and the way in which they exercise supervision over directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u56	However, I would like to come back to the question of who controls the supervisory authority, because in the end co-optation can be used to elect directors. So the supervisor appoints the driver. That's a small group of supervisors. Those supervisors can complement each other through co-optation. As far as I'm concerned, you can see that, in the end, when things are not going well, a shareholder can find something from a supervisory board, but in the care, especially in foundations, there can be a lot of money somewhere and a supervisory board can continue to arrange all of this through co-optation. I just don't think that anno 2022 is so healthy anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u57	At present, the collective agreements of hospitals, vvt, ggz and disability care provide for the right of advice when a member of the Supervisory Board is appointed. That is what is provided for. I also believe that the Works Councils Act provides for this. Then there's a possibility. In practice, one member of the Supervisory Board is often elected by the clients and one member of the Supervisory Board is elected by the works council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u58	The Works Councils Act states that the or can give advice to a director who determines the culture in the organisation. In some organisations, therefore, what I believe is Mrs Westerveld's proposal, namely large organisations, can ensure that there is always a representative of employees on the supervisory board. At least that would have the sympathy of the CDA, but I do not think that is standardized everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u59	I think that's what's in the Wor and what's in the collective agreements. It is also addressed in the governance code.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u60	It is true that there is a right of advice, but the right to advice is, of course, very easy to circumvent. The advisory right is that the participation council may give an opinion. You can deviate from that motivated by a note with three sentences explaining why you deviate from it. I might beat it a little bit, but that's about what it comes down to. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not a good idea, and that is my first question, to have just members of the Supervisory Board elected by the Supervisory Board. Well, that's health legislation, then. I know that this is done in some places by client councils, but at least as far as I know, this is not standard everywhere by employees. If that is not possible, is it not a good idea, as in education and as in the law of client councils, to simply introduce a binding right of nomination? In any case, this guarantees that there is a link between the member of the supervisory board and the participation, and that is better for the whole organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u61	However, I have to consider with my officials the difference between the current legal framework and what you are proposing, so if you will allow me to have a moment to contact you or to come back to that later, I would certainly like to do so. I understand the importance. In practice, I do not think I know a care organisation that does not do it this way, but the possibility is there; I see Mrs Van den Berg already incubating. So I'll take that with me, if you don't mind, because I have to take a look at the technicalities. We have several legal options here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u62	At first, in education, it was also the case that there was an advisory right for all members. That was also deliberately replaced by this, because this is an even stronger right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u63	Are the officials' advice coming in yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u64	Yes, the advice of the officials is coming in, but the minister still doesn't quite understand... yes, second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u65	Second term, and then the officials will communicate more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yeah, it's kind of complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u67	Actually, I'd like to move on to that second term, so I'd like to end it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u68	Yes, I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u69	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mrs Van den Berg asked whether there was overlap between the tasks of the works council and those of the VAR. The works council has a broader composition than the VAR and the works council has more rights than just an advisory right. That's what you said yourself. In practice, there may be overlaps, but I do not see any problems in the coexistence of them. They may also be able to reinforce each other. Then I come to Mrs Westerveld's question as to how many health care workers could have been saved. I'm afraid I can't answer that. I can't quantify that; that's an impossible task. If care workers can influence their daily work, this can certainly lead to better quality, more job fun and less work stress. I'm also convinced that it's going to help maintain them, but I can't quantify it. Then there was another question from Mrs Agema. I don't see her right now, but I'll answer the question. She asked what I think of the idea of allowing people working in the overhead to get to work in terms of content. In order to be able to work in substance, an employee will have to have the right expertise. That's not without reason. Patients should be able to trust that good care is provided and that the care provider is competent. So that doesn't make it easy. It does happen in health care organisations, by the way. I would also like to point out that overhead is always a fairly loaded concept, but that it can also be the person in the ICT department who ensures that the ICT system works properly, or the salary administration, who ensures that the salary is paid on time. It's not always unnecessary. I very much agree with Mrs Agema that we need to look at whether the overhead can be as small as possible. Mrs Van den Berg asked how the Law on the Internal Management of Healthcare Providers relates to the legislative proposal. I'm working on a bill of integrity. This indeed relates to the integrity of the management of healthcare providers. This is also about making supervision possible if there are undesirable excesses in business operations. The objective of the initiative proposal we are discussing today is primarily to ensure the quality of care. This does not directly affect the integrity of business operations alone. It has something to do with it in the end. I am going to inform the Chamber for the summer about the implementation of the coalition agreement agreements on tackling the non-intensity of care drivers. Then I have Mrs Van den Hil's question on how the NZa costs associated with the bill can be included in the rates. The NZa has independent power as an independent administrative body for the performance descriptions in different sectors and the setting of tariffs. They had to be at least reasonably cost-effective. This should enable healthcare providers to provide good care. There is usually a cost study prior to this. The NZa does this in full and periodically to recalibrate tariffs. It also monitors developments in the sectors. A new law does not in itself give rise to a new cost investigation for the NZa. In the case of changes related to the level and structure of tariffs, this is usually reflected in the next cost survey in the sector concerned. In the meantime, of course, there is room in the tariff setting for the supplier and buyers to make arrangements in the negotiations. Where there is no such possibility, the NZa will be consulted if necessary, but I would like to hear it. Then I'll talk to the NZa about this. Those were the answers to my questions and the appreciation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u71	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u72	There's been a few calls from a phone number that makes me think there's really something going on. I'm gonna ask for one minute to answer that call. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u73	Then I'll suspend for one minute. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u74	Let's move on. Let's do the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. I call on all participants in that second term to be short and pointy. We'll figure it out soon. Then I'll suspend for dinner. Then we will listen to the response of the initiators. The Minister has asked such fundamental questions that we need to think about it as well. I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors and to the Minister for the answers. This is, of course, a very nice subject. I am particularly pleased to look back on it, because Mrs Ellemeet and I and some of our colleagues wrote an own-initiative paper a few years ago, entitled Together the boss. It was about control in the public sector, i.e. in the care, in education and also in the police. At the time, we mainly wrote them together with the people who worked in the public sector, because they also indicated: if we can talk, it will improve quality; then we can do our job better and have more fun in our work. One of the proposals in Together's boss was also: give employees the right to control. That's nicely worked out here in this law. So I do not think anyone will be surprised that we are going to support the law and the amendments. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add another point. I just had a brief interrupting debate with the Minister on whether it would benefit the quality of governance and supervisors if they were people with their feet in the mud, who know what it is about. Should we not ensure that there is more link between directors, supervisors and participation? It is not for nothing that I included education, because it is also true in education that participation councils are allowed to make a binding nomination for one of the members of the Supervisory Board. In practice, this means that participation councils are going to think about what is a good addition to their supervisory board. They're actively looking. This is taken very seriously in education. Then you can see that the member of the supervisory board is also more connected with participation, with the workplace. That's why I'm filing the next motion. I do not know health legislation as well as education legislation, I say in all honesty. If this is already very well regulated in healthcare legislation, then we will withdraw that motion. Just to be safe, I'll file it anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas monitoring improves when it is linked to the workplace;]] [[noting that participation in education has the legal power to make one binding nomination for at least one member of the Supervisory Board;]] [[calls on the Government to include in health care legislation that employees can make a binding nomination for at least one member of the Supervisory Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35660-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to Mrs Tielen, I have referred to the law we are discussing today as a simple law. Of course, I wouldn't do that. I've checked it out and I've talked about "a very small law," but I don't know if that makes it much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u77	I think it's a lot grosser.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yeah, that's actually kind of grosser maybe. I meant to say that it is only in the form of a number of rules. We have to wait and see what is actually going to come out of this law. I have asked a lot of questions about it and I am grateful for all the answers given by the proposers this afternoon. As far as the SP is concerned, we must see this as a good step in the right direction. I still have serious doubts about the actual implementation. Will there indeed be such extra influence on healthcare providers as the proposers might expect and hope for? Let's hope it happens. The SP would have liked to continue, as I said in the first term: more control and democratisation of our concerns. This goes far beyond the law we are discussing today, but I would like to thank the authors for their response and their answers and for embracing both of the SP amendments. I'm happy about that. If it turns out that in the sector too little influence is given to carers, while we do want to see that influence, there must be an opportunity for the Minister to make good examples of the influence of carers as a standard for the whole sector without making complicated lists, if necessary under pressure from the House of Representatives. We shouldn't want bureaucratizing. One institution is not the other, but there are ways to organise for an entire sector that gives caregivers more influence. Thanks again. We will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u79	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we would like to thank the authors and the Minister for the answers. I admire the amount of work, including the background work, that has been done to come to such an initiative law. Just compliments for that. Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I indicated the doubts that we, as a CDA, have about this legislation. We very much agree with the objective, but we are dealing here with a cultural problem and less with a structural problem. When I was sitting in rooms, I learned the slogan from my landlady Jenny Hekspoor in Tilburg: can-not is in the cemetery and will-not is next to it. As far as I am concerned, that says something about what this is about. We must simply want this on the board and see the importance of it. I come to the conclusion that in the labour law legislation we already oblige the employer to focus on the organisation for the employee and that we already see in the governance code that the whole part of participation and participation is covered. In the Law on Works Councils we see that there is the necessary right of advice and consent. And I can see that the various collective agreements in the healthcare sector have already included this in the meantime. The collective agreement of the hospitals has a very social status and a whole social policy to which we have to comply and in which this comes back. I have in front of me Article 10.6 of the collective agreement Handicapped care: "Every employee, except for the call force, is obliged to participate at least four times a year in the work consultation between the managers and the other employees per organizational unit of an institution." As far as I am concerned, it is really a cultural problem and I wonder if this law is going to work. I shall, of course, discuss with my group what our final position will be on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u81	You're gonna keep it exciting for a while. Mrs Van den Hil of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Van den Hil of the VVD often likes to keep it exciting, but not now. The VVD wholeheartedly supports this. I would like once again to thank the green-orange initiators, the current and all previous initiators, together with their support, for the hard work they have done to arrive at this proposal. It is a good thing that the Minister has promised to consult with the NZa should there be a break in costs. That was a great concern for me and has now at least been partially removed. I have asked questions about the administrative burden and I ask that the impact on the regulatory burden be explicitly taken into account in the next Wkkgz review. In particular, to highlight the good examples of reducing administrative burdens, from a positive point of view: learning from each other. Mr. Chairman. As Mr Tielen said, we are on the eve of the birthday of Florence Nightingale, 12 May 1820, 202 years ago. It is nice that we now continue her ideas many years later. As a figurehead of current nursing and in her time already champion of the control of nurses, and in the slipstream with that all health professionals, I'm sure she would have been proud of this bill. For all nurses and other care professionals, as I mentioned my contribution in the first term, this is a nice gift for the Day of Nursing, nowadays more often called the Day of Care. I just saw NOW'91 put this day in the hands of control tomorrow. I think this is a nice compliment. I would like to thank all the healthcare professionals for their commitment and for the care they provide with their hearts every day. I challenge them to unpack and embrace the gift that this bill is for them and to work with it enthusiastically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you. Then the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Paulusma of the D66 Group. Then I'll suspend for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors. They show that what we do here in Parliament can make a difference. That is particularly important to me when it comes to professionals in healthcare, as you know. Thanks also to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Caregivers are professionals. It may sound crazy to say that, but it is necessary, because often when it comes to non-doctors, we see pictures of nurses wearing support stockings or physiotherapists comfortingly beating an arm around their patient. Of course, that is important, but it creates an unjustified image. The care professionals we're talking about today are very well trained. They have a huge amount of valuable work experience and bring much needed perspective to many patients and clients. That is why it is very crazy and as far as I am concerned also unprofessional that the professionals we are talking about today have no say. And yes, there are good initiatives, but it has to be better. It should be better because it does justice to the professionals we are talking about today, but also because it improves cooperation, and thus the outcomes for patients and clients. This law takes a first good step when it comes to control. As we have said before, that should not be a symbolic step. We therefore consider it important to actively look at the impact of this law. It is good that the IGJ gets a role in checking the execution. I had a small exchange with Mrs Tielen on this. The question remains as to what indicators the IGJ can test for. Mr. Chairman. Looks like the minister and I had some kind of psychic handover. Indeed, we could well imagine that in employee satisfaction surveys carried out within the care, the participation component will also be questioned, so that the IGJ can use this as an indicator. I probably know what the Minister's response is, but I'm still looking forward to the comments of the proposers. Mr. Chairman. I have already started: the professionals we are talking about today are very well trained. We share the observation of the proposers that control is also about cultural change. For the latter, we might be able to facilitate a bit. Training is important in this, to support professionals to talk and decide on both the content of care and the policy in a healthcare institution. 'Cause get on it. I also hear from professionals that this is quite exciting. Mrs Ellemeet just literally referred to that painful example of taking your own chair. My group therefore, together with the VVD, is tabling a motion in which we ask for this section to be included and forgive me for the simple words, for the people who are watching, namely to make it possible for you to be able to participate and control through education. Mr President, I shall conclude. Culture change is a tough process, but it can start at any time. Then what's a better day than tomorrow? As has been said several times, tomorrow is the day of nursing. The call I want to conclude is for drivers in care, but also for those professionals for whom control is or seems self-evident. Most of them are doctors. Your work and your organization will improve if you share participation and control. You'll get no less, but mostly the patient will get more. I think that is an outcome that everyone agrees on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. I'm suspending until 6:45 for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u86	Do I have to file my motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u87	Oh, yes, you have another motion. Let's not forget it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas caregivers need to be well facilitated and trained in order to influence both the content of the work and the organisation's health policy;]] [[noting that this is not yet part of the training;]] [[calls on the Government to provide care providers with the opportunity to train themselves in the exercise of influence by making this part of Sector PlanPlus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Paulusma and Van den Hil.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35660-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u89	I will resume for the second term of the initiators. I hope that we can conclude this point-by-point, and I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much to the Members of Parliament. We were just talking about it and these are indeed the most beautiful moments. It is very nice to have the opportunity to discuss a subject that you think is very important and with which you work very busy, so extensively with the colleagues. It is also very nice that you can make use of the good proposals that come from the Chamber. I look at Mr Hijink, who simply had good proposals. I like that, you know, because that makes our proposal better. And I thank you all for that. A number of colleagues have already mentioned it: tomorrow is the Day of Nursing. We really did everything we could to deal with that law in the Chamber tomorrow, but we couldn't. But anyway, this is very nice and hopefully we can just celebrate tomorrow that this was a nice and good debate, just for all those people in nursing. I have already thanked a number of people, but I would like to mention a few more. That is first and foremost Daniel de Rijke and I would also like to thank Engelina Kuiik for her wonderful work. It was one of those projects you've been working on for years. I must say that this is the third time I have done an initiative law with Engelina here. So it kind of feels like we're a team after all. But it shouldn't be too crazy, of course. But thank you so much for your good work! There are a lot of people from nursing and other health care groups who have thought along, but I would like to mention one person in particular and that is Francis Bolle of the V&VN. Great how she's brought me all people and thought along every time! Where would we be without her? I would also like to thank her very much in this way. I will answer one more comment from the Minister. The other will take over Mrs. Tielen. I would also like to briefly comment on the comments made by the CDA and Mrs Paulusma. The small institutions, and who are you focusing on with this law? We were, of course, already clear about this in the explanatory statement. We say: if you are a small first-line institution, then there is already a lot of influence and coordination, because you sit on each other's coffees every day. You talk a lot. Article 3 of the Wkkgz is about the organisation of the care and that's what it says, isn't it? If an institution is larger, then you have to organize it and then that influence and that conversation with each other is not at all self-evident. So I'd just like to confirm that here once more. Mrs van den Berg's cautious conclusions. Of course, I hope to give you that good push! It talks about the difference between cultural change and structural change. I agree with her that structural changes alone will not bring about cultural change. At the same time, we see that such a code is voluntary, that the frontrunners respect it, but the leftovers do not. We've been working for 40 years to give this culture change the boost that's needed, but we just see that some of those behind us are very persistent. We've had the White Anger, the nurses in the '80s. We have had the advice of the Werner Committee. CDA Minister Ab Klink has been committed to this. Every time we looked at whether we could do it without a legal obligation and I would like to say to Mrs van den Berg: have hope, dare to believe in it. A little CDA language! That legal obligation can make the difference, because you say: we don't accept it; you can't be a straggler anymore when it comes to that influence. So, who knows... Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Paulusma's motion. I'm not about the motions, but I can say here that I think it's a really good idea. That is what we have been given back by healthcare professionals. We also need to look at ourselves, because it also has to do with how we train. We have to make ourselves responsible and that authority, and it would be very good if we could start with that when people choose this beautiful profession. Then they must get it right away: it's about caring, but it's also about getting your voice heard. In fact, you have to make your voice heard! I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u91	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to address a small question on supervision and enforcement that the Minister has put from her advisory role. I was very pleased to experience how the Minister, as an advisor, looks with us at this bill. The Minister asked if we have enough idea of how supervision and enforcement can be done in practice and gave herself some hand-outs, which were also recognized by Mrs Paulusma. There are, of course, a lot of instruments already available that allow supervision and enforcement, both internal supervision and external supervision, such as employee satisfaction research in itself, but also perhaps the additional questions in that employee satisfaction research. I think that we should resist the tendency to go beyond just this legislative proposal, which is generally the case in order to lay down everything in concrete terms. Mrs Paulusma also explicitly asked us what we think. I think it is a very good tool, included in the Acts now, for drivers to take away. Finally, I would like to call on all those caregivers in the country to share their experiences with us. What are you bumping into? What goes well and what does not go well in applying your ideas, your opinions and your ability and influence on good care? I think it's good to keep talking about how it works out. I am very curious about that and look forward to all the input we can get on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u93	Fine. Finally, the Minister in her capacity as an advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr President, thank you. Thanks again to the initiators on my behalf. Good thing we can deal with this proposal today. Tomorrow is the day of nursing and also the day of care, I would say. Because it's wider than just care workers, nurses and caregivers. As a final remark, I would also like to lance for the doctors. We also discussed doctors in this room a few times today. I also see the development that they are going through as a professional group and how medicine training currently controls multidisciplinary, interdisciplinary and decision-making with patients but also with others. That is why I think that it is going to be good in this profession and that they are really doing their best to work with it. So I'd also like to lance for the doctors, if that's okay with Mrs. Paulusma. Then there are the remaining questions. Mrs Van den Hil had a question about the regulatory burden. It requests that the effects of the regulatory pressure be explicitly taken into account in the evaluation of the Wkkgz. Good idea. I'll take it with me in the next evaluation of the Wkkgz. Mrs Van den Berg asked who controls the supervisor. At present, there is no provision for external supervision of the functioning of the supervisor. The IGJ will see to it that there is an internal supervisor and that he does his job. That is what I can say about that further. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. I would ask Mrs Westerveld for her motion on item No. Thirteen to be held. It simply calls for more work to be done to understand the legal framework in order to see if there is any other way in which its request in the motion has been made. I therefore have the question of whether she wishes to continue the motion so that we can see how we can organise it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u95	I think that would be fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u96	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (35660, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u97	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Paulusma's motion, also on behalf of Mrs Van den Hil, to item No. 14. This calls on the government to provide care providers with the opportunity to train themselves in the exercise of influence by making this part of Sector PlanPlus. As far as I'm concerned, this motion gets judgment Chamber. Those were my comments and appreciations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u98	And that is what the debate was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-11-tweedekamer-10.u99	On Tuesday we shall be voting on the proposal for an initiative, the two amendments and the two motions for resolutions. Thanks to the initiators. Take a few more pictures, that's nice for the grandchildren. Enjoy this moment, because you're not in "K" that often. Thanks to the Minister, too. I'll suspend until 7:05.
