ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u1	It is a nice reunion with the two old-timers who are present today. The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Leijten amending the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum (35729). It is a so-called second reading of a constitutional proposal. This means that the House of Representatives can only accept the proposal with a two-thirds majority. I would like to welcome the initiator to section K. The same applies to the Minister for the Interior, as an advisor to the Chamber, and to Mr Ronald van Raak, who defended this proposal at first reading. I'm very glad you're here today at VK as an advisor. The same applies, of course, to support. I would also like to welcome Mr Boris van der Ham, former MP and in the past initiator of legislation on consultative and corrective referenda. You brought heavy artillery with you! I would also like to welcome Nicole Temmink, a policy officer at the SP Group. Mrs Leijten has indicated that she wants to complete the debate today. I assume that we can do the first term of the Chamber for dinner suspension and then we can finish the treatment. That's the last thing I want to say about it, because we're gonna start right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u2	We will begin with Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group for his input. Since it is a legislative consultation, I do not want to limit the number of interruptions, but I would ask you to interrupt briefly and concisely. I call Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we appreciate the work of the author, Mrs Leijten, her predecessor Ronald van Raak and all the people who have played a role in the past. BVNL and the SP are ideologically far apart, but in this we find each other. BVNL congratulates Mrs Leijten on this proposal, which is now on the table for second reading. Is it perfect? No, far from it. Is it feasible? Yes. It's a compromise, and that's better than nothing. Of course, BVNL strongly supports this constitutional change. What is the issue with referenda? It is the ultimate form of direct decision-making by millions of voters. That's a lot, but it's essential. Why? Because the representative democracy is failing in its present form, and that is an understatement. After a year of formation full of resentment and quarrel, the parties that formed the previous coalition decided on a new coalition agreement. And indeed, about the same people who were in the previous cabinet and had resigned after the supplementing affair, returned happily. No function elsewhere for them. It's a bit like a footballer who was in rush hour and was kicked off the field with red, the next game just goes back to being a midfielder. That's deadly for the credibility of the voter. Unfortunately, this credibility was not improved by the own interpretation of the truth and the serious disturbances that some rulers found themselves having in their short-term memory. If the hip shoe fits, put it on. In any case, it was immediately clear that the new governance culture is not going to happen. After all, culture is in people and if you make too few changes in the team, the culture will not change. At least I've always heard that from wise men, including McKinsey. The next step was the coalition agreement, in which, as with the 2017 formation, remarkable novelties were again observed. In 2017, the abolition of the dividend tax, which was not included in the election programmes, was thrown out of Mark Rutte's top hat. In 2022, the Dutch electorate was surprised with no less than two budget funds, for climate and nitrogen, of as much as 60 billion euros. Money's looking for project. I am guessing that the parliamentary inquiry into these funds will appear on the Chamber's agenda in 2028 after, of course, an independent investigation by an external agency will first be commissioned by the government, which in arren weere will also set up a state agent, a task force coordinator and an interdepartmental working group to keep the directors concerned out of the political wind for as long as possible. The House of Representatives let it happen, because dualism is dead. Unfortunately, I have to say that members of the coalition mainly operate in the service of the government in order to approve plans with a small minority of which the voters have never been asked what they really think. The coalition parties are not here to control the government, but to keep the cabinet in the saddle. Even the holding of a democratic debate is sometimes shamelessly co-ordinated, or blocked by the coalition parties when a minister may be in political difficulties. Well, democracy has very little to do with it. Mr. Chairman. The voter must therefore be given an emergency brake, an electoral delete test, a correction mechanism. After all, confidence in politics is declining intelligibly. Give democracy back to its citizens. I sometimes wonder what keeps politicians from doing that. Fear of the voter, perhaps? A runaway electorate? BVNL prefers referenda without restrictions to Swiss model. And of course there will be objections from professional politicians. "It will be a mess if the majority would decide on each individual issue." "Perhaps the budget would get out of hand." Yeah, and certainly not with this cabinet. Yeah, right. BVNL claims that this is a misrepresentation of business. People are wise. The Swiss prove how prudent the majority can decide, wiser than any parliament. In small Switzerland, majority decision-making works on individual matters. But how can citizens weigh all facets of complicated technical issues? Do they have enough knowledge? Well, first of all, there's the wisdom of the crowd. In addition, it is important to realise that if in-depth knowledge is needed to allow someone to decide on complicated technical matters, we can safely replace half of the subject-K. Let everyone check the list of directors and their resumes. As said, the Swiss model is BVNL's dream. That's where we want to go. An emergency brake in the form of a corrective referendum is compared with a tissue for bleeding. But when one is hungry, a dry crust of bread is also a feast. The gap between the cabinet and the electorate is getting deeper and deeper. The gap between the voter and his representative ditto. Trust in politics is gone. The cabinet celebrates its own celebration on the global stage and hugs world leaders and loses itself in globalist vistas. At the first reading of this constitutional amendment, the Christian Union amendment was adopted. An amendment that has a profound impact on Van Raak's original proposal. That amendment does not reject a proposal until a lot of people say no. How much? At least half plus one voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter voter In 2021 it was 10.5 million voters, so the emergency brake would only work for 5.25 million no-voters shortly. That is a very high threshold, and that is a pity. The report by Remkes, which led Van Raak to his proposal, was called Low thresholds, high dikes. Anyway, for now, it's no different. The list of subjects excluded from a corrective referendum is also, although perhaps not entirely incomprehensible, unfortunately rather discouraging. Mr. Chairman. In fact, it is more than weird if an occasional government can transfer sovereignty to the EU with a minimal majority, for example. After all, sovereignty lies with the people. He owns it, but the people are not consulted on it. The Dutchman needs to know again that his voice does matter, even outside the Hague bubble with his job carousel. In the opinion of BVNL, especially in view of the limitations, no democratic party can actually vote against this legislative amendment. It's a start, definitely not anymore. However, also a 1,000 mile road starts with a single step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. An initiative law is always a special moment; but certainly this for a number of reasons. First of all, this initiative amends the Constitution at second reading. We don't deal with this every day; at least I don't. Recently a number of Members of Parliament have experienced this, but for me that is new. Secondly, this is an initiative of Renske Leijten. I really appreciate her passion for giving people a voice. I would also like to thank the support in trade-K: Boris van der Ham, Ronald van Raak and Nicole Temmink. It's really good to see you guys sitting there like this. Thirdly, the law has a very good history; I will come back to that in a moment. Finally, and above all, because this is about trust in politics and control. Those are essential issues, really crucial. We should all be very concerned about that, and I think we are all concerned about that. Because how does our democracy work? Does it still work properly? A fact is that many people have lost confidence: in each other, in the functioning of our rule of law, in our government and in our democracy. The confidence in the institutions is not great, but the confidence in politicians is, in the lists I have seen, the lowest, lowest. There's a lot to say about that. We can analyse how that all happened and what we need to do about it. But one of the things we have to do about the SP is to strengthen people's control. The core of democracy is that people have something to say about the organisation of our society and their immediate environment. That really goes beyond giving people the right to go to the ballot box once every four years and then to keep their mouths shut. By casting a vote, of course, people have not given up their say. We believe that we should give people the right to whistle back the drivers when they make decisions that people do not want at all. Our ideal is therefore that there will be a binding corrective referendum at national, provincial and local level. Treaties that affect our sovereignty should also be submitted to the people in a referendum. Mr. Chairman. That ideal is not ahead of us today. I can be honest about that. But there is a very nice proposal. I think it's a unique opportunity to give people more control. It is a means in the hands of people to whistle back politics when wrong decisions are made. The history of this proposal is long. I'm not going to describe it exhaustively. There are other times for that and there are books written about it. But I have to mention some of that here. In 2013, there were initiatives by GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66 for a consultative referendum that was also introduced... and a corrective referendum. The latter was never presented in second reading. Eventually, Ronald van Raak made a brave attempt to defend this law, but before that there was no majority. The correct referendum was therefore not held. The referendum we did have, the consultative referendum, was abolished in 2018. Mr. Chairman. I've never understood that so well. In any case, in my view, this has once again been very bad for confidence in politics, because because the people had voted unwelcomely on a number of occasions, the consultative referendum was abolished. At least that's what it felt like. After the State Committee on Parliamentary System led by Johan Remkes also advocated a corrective referendum, the SP again filed a law for that purpose. That proposal was adopted at the time. That is what we are discussing at second reading. The Remkes committee is very clear in Low thresholds, high dikes. That's why I need to think about that a little bit longer. First of all, the Committee recognises that higher-educated citizens are better represented on some topics in representative bodies than those with lower levels of education. On important themes, the electorate is not well represented in the House of Representatives. There is, to some extent, a diplomat democracy, according to the Remkes State Commission. Higher educated people and people with a higher level of income are more satisfied with the functioning of democracy and have more confidence in the Lower House than those with lower levels of education and those with lower incomes. The State Committee sees the introduction of the binding corrective referendum as an important contribution to modernising and complementing representative democracy and the future stability of the parliamentary system. There is also considerable public support for the referendum as a complement to representative democracy. Next, the State Committee also says that the meaning of the binding corrective referendum lies primarily in its corrective effect. It is precisely because of the necessary legitimacy and trust in representative democracy that the referendum as a valve or safety valve is of value and significance. The binding corrective referendum can also be understood as a form of counter-pressure, intended to give extra strength to existing democracy, and thus as a strengthening of the essential functioning of political checks-and-balances in Dutch democracy. The binding corrective referendum can also be an important tool for ensuring involvement in the political system, especially in the case of citizens who experience a great distance from politics. I think we should also see that last comment from the State Committee in the light of the Atlas of the Netherlands that has been abandoned. We just need to get everyone back in the game. The state committee also says that the referendum involves a wider section of the population in the decision-making process. It is precisely the groups of citizens who are less affected by representative democracy and the parliamentary system, and who are less affected by other channels of political participation, that are particularly welcome in the referendum as an instrument. They see the referendum as an appropriate means of political engagement and play a much more active part in it than in other forms of participation. The referendum is therefore, again according to the state committee, a good rebuttal of diplomat democracy. The State Committee has an explicit preference for the binding form of the corrective referendum and sees the binding corrective referendum not as a weakening but rather as a complement to representative democracy. Mr. Chairman. I have kept thinking about this a little longer, because I think these are really important remarks. This is not just a Member of Parliament who has an idea, a political wish or a hobby. No, a state committee has specifically investigated this and comes to these explicit conclusions and recommendations. Let us then look at the arguments that are always used by opponents of the correct binding referendum. First of all, there is the argument that people would not be able to make complicated decisions and make decisions. Sometimes they put it differently, but that's basically what it's all about. People would be too stupid, not informed enough or not involved enough. I think that is nothing less than a sacrifice of democracy. After all, people have to choose now, but for whole electoral programmes? That's really about everything. Why should they be able to do so, but not be able to look into the referendum question before them? In my view, this is precisely why the social debate contributes to greater involvement in politics. Contrary to all the new forms of civic participation in my view, where people are allowed to talk, but not to decide, a referendum according to a lot of research is an important means that could narrow the gap. That seems really important to me. Secondly, it is sometimes said that a referendum does not fit in with our system of parliamentary democracy. I don't think that's right either. The best argument against this is the State Committee, which states precisely that a referendum is a valuable addition to our system. In other countries, too, it does not exclude one another. Coalition formation leads to compromises that do not do justice to the will of the majority, and so people should have the opportunity to whistle back their people's representatives when they make wrong decisions, which are not in the interests of people. The third argument that you hear from time to time is that the world doesn't allow itself to be caught in simple yes-conferences and pros and cons. I have always found that a curious argument, because what are we doing here every Tuesday when we have to vote on hundreds of motions, amendments and legislative proposals? We're voting for that or against that, aren't we? It's complicated sometimes, but you have to make a choice. That is no different in a referendum. Finally, we often come across as an argument that the majority could thus restrict the rights of minorities. With that argument, I can't do that much either. First of all, we are talking about the whistles of the leaders and representatives of the people on new proposals, and not about self-defeated referendum questions. Nor can we vote on constitutional changes, so the protection afforded by our Constitution and human rights, which continue to apply everywhere and everywhere, is preserved. That is, of course, a good thing. Finally. I think we have a really unique opportunity here. This bill can increase people's involvement in political issues. Whatever you thought of all the previous referenda, the consultative referenda we already had, without these referendums, we would not have managed to get people to talk at the kitchen table or in the pub about, for example, the drag law. That was a really good, substantive social debate. On the contrary, the referendum can greatly increase people's involvement. The corrective referendum can contribute to increasing confidence in politics. It gives people more control over their own lives. It is actually the most democratic means that can be imagined. Let's turn it into a historic debate. I very much hope that the opponents of the referendum will also listen with an open mind to the arguments in today's debate and finally come to a wise decision with a cool head and a warm heart. I sincerely hope so for all 150 Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u7	My heart is also very cool, but I note that a small amendment has been tabled to this beautiful law, which says something about the threshold of outcome. I didn't know that word. That threshold is rather high and that means in practice that at least 40% or 41% must have gone to the ballot box if it is to be valid. That's a big deal. It means that all referendums held in the Netherlands in recent years, but also the vast majority of referendums abroad, would have been invalid. So this initiative law is also a bit of a dead letter, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u8	I understand Mr Bosma's question. I don't think it's a dead letter. But if Mr Bosma asks me, "Is this the ideal law or could it have been better?" I say no, there is no ideal proposal. I have also just explained what I think would have been a better proposal. We would have preferred to have followed the advice of the Remkes State Committee; I have it lying there. I think he's making a better proposal. There is a smaller threshold in this proposal, which would make a referendum result more valid and binding. But I don't agree that this is going to be a dead letter. I think that if a law is passed here in the Lower House about which a majority in the country is extremely angry, this is not what we want! That is what people will want to say about it. Signatures are then collected first. This has yet to be established by implementing law, but that could be, for example, 400,000 signatures. That is also quite a threshold. But if that hurdle has been taken, people are mobilized and there is a good, substantive social debate, then I think a lot of people are prepared to speak on it. If that weren't the case, I'd regret that, wouldn't I? Again, that threshold of outcome was not our proposal. It was cycled in at first reading. I am not happy with that, and I say this quite honestly here, but this is now the proposal that is before us. We cannot amend it again, because then we would have tried and we would probably have agreed on it. But I believe, even if this threshold is not reached, that the democratic parties here still have to take account of what is being said by the people at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u9	There is an interruption by Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u10	I have two questions. Firstly, does the speaker not think that such a high turnout threshold will be extremely demotivating and that people will not even go to the ballot box because they already know in advance that it is unfeasible? Second. Does he trust the parties who so clearly do not want that referendum and the absurd threshold of outcome actually make it lame that they make it accessible by implementing law to organise a referendum at all? I hear him say 400,000 signatures. That is a reference to the previous referendum law, where it was 300,000 signatures. But of course it could be just like that they say: we're going to ask for 2 million signatures. That is not mentioned in this proposal for a Constitution. Does he trust them to do that? So one: doesn't it dismotivate the population altogether? And two: we're gonna need 2 million signatures to organize a referendum at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. Again, of course, the outcome threshold was not our proposal. We can't change it now. This is what's in store right now. I'd rather have a referendum than no referendum. That is a question that should concern us all here in 150 minutes' time. I don't think it demotivates people. I think, on the contrary, that this could be a recruitment process, such as: vote, otherwise it would not be a binding corrective referendum and it would not be a blow to politics if Mr Baudet wanted it. It is therefore also up to the political parties to intervene in the social debate. The same applies to others, such as publicists. Anyone can then interfere in the debate and persuade people to go to the ballot box. Especially if it could be combined with, on occasion, Lower House elections, it will be easier to reach that threshold. Mr Baudet's second question: do I entrust the parties here with a reasonable threshold in the implementing law? Whether I entrust it to other parties or not, we have the democratic debate here. So no, it is not written in the proposal to amend the Constitution as it now stands. As far as we are concerned, there had not already been an outcome threshold, but I think we can handle that debate very well. We're all there. I think it might be wise, then, to sit near or near that proposal of the State Committee. 400,000 seems to me to be a reasonable number. Of course, we can never agree to some 2 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u12	That was enough, Mr. Baudet? I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I knew it from a court of law debate: you should always register before Michiel van Nispen. Because he says a lot of things that you would have said to yourself, so I'll just refer to him where I'd double. I am also allowed to speak on behalf of BBB today, and I would like to welcome the former colleagues behind the pillar. Mr. Chairman. We are conducting this debate, just to zoom in, in a context of a war between an authoritarian regime, or a dictatorship, and a democracy. But also worldwide there is a struggle between autocracy, i.e. authoritarian regimes, and democracy. As the International Institute for Democracy and Election Support, IDEA, noted in a report on the global state of democracy: the world is becoming more authoritarian. This is not just about China's rise, but also about democracies such as India, Poland and the United States, which are becoming increasingly dependent on an authoritarian regime, or at least becoming less democratic. Mr. Chairman. In the constitutional reforms, I also recalled: I believe that this is precisely why we have the extra task of deepening, renewing and strengthening our democracy. On the one hand, it is important to make our democracy resilient by building cultural and structural adjustments and additional safeguards, in my view, lies in stopping that democratic decline. We also need to keep our democracy up-to-date, so we need to update every now and then. Secondly, it is important to show that democracy works, by actively striving for more democratisation and ensuring that democracy works for people. For this we need to bring democratic ideals closer and give people more influence on their own lives, but also on their governance. It has been remembered a few times: that also requires something from us in the Netherlands. We can't just sit back. There are all the reasons to be vigilant and concerned. Voters are pulling out. The low turnout in the municipal elections, which we will be discussing in greater detail with the Minister tomorrow, is fresh in our minds. The feeling of involvement is getting worse. Mr Van Nispen mentioned it: that is not the same in all sections of the population. These are specific groups. Here in The Hague, Benoordenhout was the turnout in the municipal elections around 80%. In Moerwijk or Laak it was between 20% and 30%. It's not evenly distributed. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau therefore wrote to us in a reflection on the coalition agreement: "That is why the SCP recommends that the quality of representative democracy and the fight against unequal representation be made more explicit as the starting points of the further development, while keeping an open eye on possible instruments." They continue with even more beautiful words, but this was the core sentence for me. I believe that this proposal is also here. The SCP explicitly recommends that this be taken over. It is up to the politicians, they say, but this is an instrument that can respond to this. Here are all the quotes that Mr Van Nispen has read from the beautiful blue book of the State Committee parliamentary system. It is also about unequal access to power, through lobby groups, which we will have another debate on tomorrow. We must continue to have these debates. We need to make that more and more public. So today we are talking about the correct binding referendum. I would also like to congratulate Mr Leijten for taking this initiative a step further. Mr. Chairman. This is therefore not intended as a substitute for representative, representative democracy, but as an addition to it. Previous debates often quoted Roosevelt. Let me quote Professor Tom van der Meer today, who writes in his book 'Not the voter is crazy': such a corrective referendum is not 'the axe at the root of representative democracy, nor its salvation, but simply a useful addition under circumstances'. I do not know whether this is 'under the circumstances', but it is clear that there is broad support for it. It is precisely the people in whom democracy is not so popular or who, in any case, experience a great distance from democracy and from politics. That support has also been very broad for a long time, above the two-thirds majority required in the House of Representatives, I say. The remedially binding referendum is the only form of civic participation, and I am very much in favour of all kinds of civil councils, civil fora, the right of citizen amendment, which can accommodate the pitfall that only the participation elite or, as Van Nispen called it, the diploma Democrats are making their appearance. The State Committee points out the guarantees that you can build in to make that citizens' council more representative, but it will never reach the same level of people that you can reach with the referendum. Mr. Chairman. This does not, of course, relieve us of the duty to ensure that our representative system and parliamentary practice work better. In fact, in the past Boris van der Ham has often said in these debates "the best referendum is the referendum that is not held because there is broad support, because politics has done its job well. He nods happily. We have a lot of work to do, we have a broad agenda that needs to be rolled out. This is about elected directors, about a different electoral system, about a right of citizen amendment, more citizen fora and so on. All of that has to be done. But all these things are not, in the end, an alternative to the corrective referendum and, moreover, there is no contradiction at all, because you can and you have to do it all. It's en-and. So much for this part of the plea. Then there are a number of specific questions. I also asked it at first reading and did not receive a very clear answer. One of the criticisms of the consultative referendum was: yes, then politics does something about it. I understand that, but at the same time I am asking what exactly is the consequence of a negative result in a remedially binding referendum. When, in the opinion of both the proposer and initiator and the Minister, has the outcome been taken seriously? Is that if we wait a week for a new bill to just start from scratch? Is that if we wait five years? Is that if we wait ten years? Or is it gonna take more? During the previous parliamentary period we had a discussion with researchers from the University of Tilburg, who also looked at ways of deliberative democracy, to involve the deliberations in direct democracy, that referendum. What opportunities does the initiator see for involving citizens' ideas in this follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u14	There is an interruption by Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u15	I have a question about the threshold: a certain amount of people must rise up and vote against a valid result. Does Mr Sneller know what the amount of votes against should have been at a turnout like the Ukraine referendum, about 30%? How many percent of the people, calculated from the last Lower House election turnout, should vote against a valid result? Does he know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u16	I didn't do that math, but that's a very high number at such a turnout.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u17	It's 130%. It's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u18	Let us not always throw the threshold of turnout and the threshold of outcome into one heap. At first reading, we had that confusion of speech in an interrupting debate you had with Mr Van der Graaf. The turnout threshold is how many people have to vote, so that people who are before the law stay at home. Let us suppose that the state committee has made the suggestion to make it a threshold of outcome, so that it is worth voting for everyone, so that it is important for everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'm just looking at the legal text that's in front of us. Usually you have an average turnout of 80% in the Lower House elections. Half of them are about 40%. So if you have a 30% turnout, which is a very normal turnout for referenda, look at Switzerland, for example, then 130% of the total turnout must vote against. It can't be. At 40% turnout, 100% vote against. This outcome threshold effectively makes this referendum completely lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u20	That's where the outcome threshold is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u21	No, Mr Sneller, Mr Baudet has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u22	I'm also talking about the outcome threshold. Half of the total number of people who have turned up in the previous general parliamentary elections should vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'm not that pessimistic, but I do have a piece of this. I also felt the need to say some extras about the first reading, the outcome threshold and the amendment. Colleagues Ephraim and Van Nispen also went into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u24	It's not like "o, but I'll have some left in my speech later."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u25	No, now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u26	I shall refer this to Mr Sneller. That threshold is a castration of this referendum. It can't function like this anymore. It's become a pacifier! It's a judas! It has masked the end of the referendum as 'there must be support'. 130% against is impossible! It can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u27	I give the floor again to Mr Sneller to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u28	Then it's very formal. I don't hear a question. Mr Baudet voted in favour of this bill during the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr Baudet voted in favour of this bill during the previous period. Do you think that's an argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr Sneller and I would like to go through the chairman. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u31	No question has been asked. I'm just saying, if he thinks it's so bad, why did he vote for it like I did? I am now trying to explain why I supported that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u32	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u33	I'll ask the questions here. I put a question to Mr Sneller. He didn't know that if you have a 30% turnout, which is a very normal turnout at a referendum, you need 130% votes against. Can he explain how he can imagine that this referendum, as it is now before us, could work for the sake of the amendment tabled at the last reading? 130% no-voters can't vote at 30% turnout!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u34	So it's a matter of getting a high turnout. That's what makes it really alive. If it really lives, then it is an instrument in the hands of the population to say "this really cannot be done." And that's why they're coming to the ballot box.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u36	Let me give you one more example. The turnout in the referendum on the European Constitution.................................................................................................................................................. At least it was over 60%. That's a very high turnout, you'd say. Two thirds of the Dutch population said "no" to the European Constitution, but according to this referendum proposal with this outcome threshold, that would not be enough for a valid result because you needed around 68% to get half the turnout in the Lower House elections. It's just unfeasible. It's a pacifier! It's never gonna work! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u37	I'm less pessimistic. I think it's better to have this referendum than not to have a referendum. That was the choice that lay ahead of us, and I think that is still the choice that lies ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mr Sneller uses that high threshold of outcome as an argument; that is proof that something is alive. From the example of the European Constitution that was just mentioned, which would not have been achieved under these new rules, it was quite clear that it lived with the people. I can still see it. Then we went into the country with a group. Wilders, the SP was active, markets, streets, theater, what didn't all happen? It was alive! But it didn't make it to Mr. Faster's threshold. That's contrary to his argument, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u40	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u41	That referendum lived intensely. It was in the news for weeks. I remember standing with Mr. Wilders somewhere in Leidschendam. I believe there were 30 camera crews present from all over the world. France had voted against on Sunday and we had to vote on Wednesday. It was living hugely. But according to Mr Sneller it did not live, because it never reached that outcome threshold. That's all wrong, isn't it? That's a question. I would ask Mr Sneller to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u42	That is a clear question. That referendum was definitely alive. But that referendum didn't have anything in it: boys, this is what we need to reject. I thought it was a good referendum, but it was a consultative referendum. This also gives you as a behavior effect: if we rise up and it is rejected, then it is really rejected. That creates a different dynamic during such a campaign and for the turnout, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u43	I think, says Mr Sneller, because he doesn't know that. He only gambles a little. The same Tom van der Meer who quotes Mr. Sneller has looked at seventeen referenda in Western Europe. Fifteen of them wouldn't have made it under these rules, two would. That's a very low score. The whole means of referendum, which we should have, is simply bullied by this, I ask Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u44	I don't think so, but I didn't want this either. This wasn't my first preference. My first preference, which I argued at first reading, was the variant that we had in the previous initiative proposal: put it in the Constitution that it should be done, but settle it by an implementing law with two-thirds majority. I also made the assessment at the time, and that is why I wanted to explain why I did it in such a way at the last reading that we need to maximise the chance that it will be there at all. I was counting and I'm not getting to 100 yet. I think it is important that, at least because of the wish of the Christian Union, which clearly said that this was necessary for it to be able to support such a Constitutional revision, we maximise the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u45	And then D66 voted in favour of that amendment, which comes with a colossal threshold, which in practice simply kills, castrates, destroys this medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u46	I am therefore less pessimistic about this, but at the same time this is not my ideal referendum. I would have liked to have seen us get a two-thirds majority with that other variant. I will end up with a slightly more optimistic note in a moment, but I am becoming pessimistic that even this variant cannot count on a two-thirds majority when I hear the first reports. Then you can make new legislative proposals with your ideal variant, but at least they won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u47	And then we come back to the original sin, where it went wrong: the destruction of the consultative referendum by a D66 minister with the support of the D66 group. You shouldn't have done that. We would not have had to make the whole detour through the Constitution. There is no need for a consultative referendum through the Constitution. It worked. It wasn't optimal. A cabinet could indeed go either way, but we had that tool. That's what you ruined. Wouldn't have done that! We wouldn't have been standing here. Then we would have sat on a terrace. You broke it, and now we're stuck with the shrapnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u48	We would still be standing here, because it still needs to be regulated in the Constitution. The correct binding referendum was still the aim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u50	I had already asked that question to the initiator and the minister. Another question. This will allow municipalities and provinces to introduce corrective binding referenda at their administrative level. I think there have been requests in the past, for example from Limburg. In what way is that dealt with now? How often do these requests come? It will be the party color, but I get requests: can it also be made possible in our congregation? I have already said a few things about this threshold. I didn't need that level in the Constitution. I understand very well the criticism of the scientists on that. On the one hand, it must ensure that it is representative, but on the other hand it must also be realistic as an upper limit. For me, it was and is crucial that we ensure that there is broad support for this proposal. The horde of 100 votes here and 50 votes in the First Chamber is huge, so we know from the past. Better this referendum than no referendum as far as I'm concerned. We will hear later today whether this also applies to the other groups. I would specifically ask the Minister about the possibility of division in Article 137 of the Constitution. What is the possibility of splitting this bill at this stage, should the balance of power be different here? Finally, Mr President. I also said it in the Constitutional Reviews: in the end, we need to count and vote. This constitutional revision is a history of hiccup jumping with horde walks and a touch of marathon. Last time, Mr Van Raak said that I was somewhat cynical with my reference to the Sisyphus work of the stone rolled against the mountain and rolled down just before the end. So I try to remain optimistic until the votes. I do indeed hope, with Mr Van Nispen, that all colleagues will reconsider this, especially those who take the Atlas of the Netherlands seriously and ask much attention to it and also those who have taken the initiative for the State Committee on Parliamentary System and say that they take its outcome seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr. Chairman. It's Wednesday's Constitutional Change Day again. We have been standing here a lot lately to talk about the Constitution. After we talked a few weeks ago about some minor constitutional changes, which were no less important, there is a much more imaginative change to our Constitution on the agenda today. And it is also an initiative of the Chamber. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Leijten and her staff. Although former colleague Van Raak led the first reading of the proposal through both Chambers, it remains special to see a member of the Chamber sitting in box K to defend a legislative amendment. I was just talking to my colleague: this bill has a long history, which includes names of GroenLinksers. That's what you see. They got off again. The proposal before us today is a proposal on which everyone has an opinion. It is a subject that has been discussed for a long time in politics and in society: the referendum. We know the referendum in different forms. There are consultative referenda, binding referenda, initiating referenda and corrective referenda. I'm sure I'll forget a few more. I think Mr Leijten's proposal concerns the most fundamental form of the referendum, namely the binding corrective referendum. It is binding, because the outcome cannot be interpreted by the politics themselves. It is correct because it corrects a decision taken by politics. This form of the referendum is specific in this sense, because the initiative of the referendum lies with the people rather than with politics, such as the Brexireféendum. The question of whether or not a referendum is a good idea lives in society, because it is about the Dutch's role in decision-making. Many inhabitants of the Netherlands want to be involved more often than once every four years in decision-making in their neighbourhood or at national level. I have seen this myself as a councilman and as an alderman in my own congregation. But even now, as a Member of Parliament, I see that there are a lot of Dutch people involved, who want to give their opinion more than once every four years on what is being decided on them. The referendum is a form to involve citizens more, but it is not the holy grail for us. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to focus much more on citizens' involvement prior to political decision-making. Otherwise, we have a very limited view of civic participation. Of course, I realise that we are not talking about this today, but I just wanted to say that there are other ways of promoting civic participation. Then there is today's proposal. At first reading, my group voted in favour of the proposal. Despite the fact that there are really different views on the referendum in our constituency, GroenLinks was in favour of this form of the referendum. That is because it sees the binding corrective referendum as a good addition to representative parliamentary democracy. That was also in line with the reasoning of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. If Parliament were to adopt a law and a substantial part of the electoral population did not really agree with the adoption of such a law, it should be possible for citizens to take the democratic emergency brake by means of a binding corrective referendum. In this way, a law that has been passed by both chambers can be revoked. The second reading is intended to look again after the Lower House elections to see if the proposal we adopted by a majority in the first period is still sensible. I also speak on behalf of the PvdA. I forgot to mention that, but that almost makes sense. We consider this proposal to be a good complement to representative democracy. It gives citizens the opportunity to whistle back to parliament. It can also make sure that the Chambers do even more work on good legislation and explain why certain legislation would be necessary. So far my group's position at this second reading is no different than at first reading. Mr. Chairman. There has been a concern in my group at this second reading. I would like to present it to the initiator. At first reading, an amendment by Mr Van der Graaf of the Christian Union was adopted to include an outcome threshold in the legislative proposal. In various interruptions, that was just the issue. In my group's opinion, that threshold is very high. The question is whether that threshold is not too high. In concrete terms, the threshold of outcome means that voters can only reverse an passed law and thus correct politics only if a majority votes against the proposal of the law, with that majority at least equal to the majority of valid votes cast in the most recent elections of the members of the House of Representatives. The odds of so many people voting are low. No national referendum that has been held so far would meet this outcome threshold simply because too many people have to come forward. The question that arises is whether we are adding a dead letter to the Constitution. That was already in my input and was just said in the interruptions. Does this mean that citizens will only have less confidence in politics? Imagine a majority of voters voting against a certain law in a referendum, but turnout is just below the threshold of the required number of votes. What kind of signal does that send? Make sure that voters do not think next time: last time we voted with quite a lot of voters, but that was no use; the high threshold was virtually unfeasible. I'd like a response from the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u53	An interruption by Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mrs. Bromet understands. That wonderful proposal is just castrated. None of that would have been necessary, because we always had a very nice consultative referendum. I admit that wasn't the very best either and that it was non-binding, but it worked. We had a nice referendum on the European Constitution, etc. But that was destroyed, among other things by GroenLinks. Doesn't GroenLinks have a little regret about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u55	Are you talking about abolishing the referendum as we were just talking about? GroenLinks voted against that abolition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u56	No. I've had a lot of debates with Mr Baudet and a lot of others. Ms Özütok van GroenLinks opposed the consultative referendum. She admitted that was not her personal opinion. She just got a piece of paper from the party leadership. Mrs Özütok opposed the fine referendum we used to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u57	I was just walking over to my associate's house and asking how we voted. I don't know all the votes on all the legislative proposals by heart. I wasn't a spokesperson at the time. Then I heard that we voted against the abolition. Well, that's a misunderstanding, then. I'm sorry that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u58	That there's been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u59	Yeah, there's been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u60	There may be a second deadline to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u61	I would like to be persuaded by the initiator why the referendum with this high threshold does not become a dead letter. We, as GroenLinks, are really worried about that. I would also like to hear from the Minister how she looks at the threshold of outcome, regardless of whether it is substantively for or against the introduction of a referendum. Does it think that the referendum in this form is a substantial addition to representative parliamentary democracy, or not? I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u62	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u63	Thank you, Mr President. What a party today and what a day of emotion. Of course, it's always a party when a Member of Parliament comes up with an initiative bill, especially if it's a constitutional change. A bow and appreciation for Mrs Leijten and her policy officer, who is around the corner. It's kind of like standing here in a parking garage. It also pays tribute to the Minister for being here today to assist the petitioner. And of course it's nice that we dug up two former roommates. With Mr Ronald van Raak I was allowed to sit in the Bureau for ten years and for ten years I was allowed to do the Interior portfolio. I remember a lot of nice debates, often the two of us against the rest of the Chamber. I remember a lot of cozy municipal reclassifications. It's good to see him back here. The same applies to Mr Boris van der Ham, with whom I have spent many years in the Dijsselbloem Committee, where we have also experienced a lot of things. I missed him at the last reunion of the Dijsselbloem Commission, but in five years I hope to see him there again. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, we immediately had all the light of day, because the rest of my text I have requested fifteen minutes is purely vitriol.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u64	I would like to add my voice to Mr Bosma. There was just an interrupting debate with Mrs van GroenLinks, who claimed that GroenLinks voted against the abolition of the referendum of that time. In itself, that's true. The Green Left MPs who were there then voted against. But now the monkey comes out of the sleeve. There were also negotiations at the time: could GroenLinks perhaps become a majority? They wanted to be involved, so at that time two Members of Parliament were not present at the vote: Mrs Voortman and Mr Özdil. It was precisely because of that presence that the abolition continued. GroenLinks has therefore played an essential role in destroying the working real referendum that we had.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u65	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u66	So Mr Bosma was absolutely right. This is very important to the people who are watching. This is, of course, a trick; this is very often the case here in the Chamber. Then they say, no, we voted against. Ah. But a large part of the people were absent. Aha! Yeah, so you can simulate majorities. Then you can pretend you're against it, but behind the scenes you've already made a deal: people are sick that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you. I do not think it was a question for Mr Bosma, but I am giving Mrs Bromet a chance to respond. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u68	I'd like to be able to defend myself. Mr Bosma told me that we had had a vote. Mr Bosma's assertion was wrong. The fact that two Members were not present and that there was an intention behind that was far from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you. For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u70	That doesn't add up either. Mrs Voortman was in favour of the referendum and she said so. It was all for a reason. GroenLinks played a totally wrong role in this. Mr. Chairman. When I see Ronald van Raak, I immediately have to remember the debate on the abolition of the consultative referendum. I was wearing my funeral suit. D66 Minister Ollongren I was allowed to say "maiden".......................................................................................................................................................................................... D66, the party that claims to have been set up to bring democracy closer to the citizen, was ironically ready to drive that referendum towards the crematorium. D66-coryfee Hans van Mierlo (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. He also used the referendum in his election campaign. Then he looked into the camera and said "and that's why D66 wants the referendum." He wanted, as he said, "dig channels to power." Das war einmal. So that party killed her own baby. A Greek king drama. A proof that the power party, the state party, the regent party par excellence, D66, has had it with democracy. Demophobes 66. The call for more democracy was only on the way to power, not when power is inside. And who was ready to kill the referendum? Who pulled the trigger? Now, the Hall of Honor of the Old Left, the Party of Labour and GroenLinks. Parties who used to have the mouths of the people. The forerunner of the Labour Party once argued for the referendum to replace the Upper House. In the 1970s, the PvdA drove with the concept of "mouthiness." I do not know whether Mr Boris van der Ham can remember, Mr Boris Dijsselbloem, that we were on the Dijsselbloem committee and that we were interrogating Mr Van Kemenade there. He spoke nicely about his beautiful booklet making more people mouthy. But that too was a long time ago. The left is now in power everywhere and wants to empower fewer people. I understand that, because the worker is voting right now. He'll vote Le Pen. He's voting for Brexit. Worse still, he votes for Geert Wilders. At the congresses of the PvdA, they sing the International Wake-up, the rejected of the earth, but the rejected who actually wake up, is now kindly requested by the PvdA not to do so in the form of a referendum. The people aren't ready for that yet. They're not here today either. They're probably trying to pull some strings on who's supposed to be the group leader. In 2018, the Netherlands entered the history books as the first democratic country in the world to abolish the referendum. A sad fact. On a cloud Hans van Mierlo was crying uncontrollably. Luckily, he had a drink at hand. Snooder Ronald van Raak then took over an older proposal: a constitutional change for a binding referendum. That was actually accepted! Greetings and congratulations to my old warrior. However, however, at the same time the proposal was fully calved. There was an amendment by the assassins of the Christian Union, a party that traditionally hates the referendum. The ancient Christian adage "vox populi, vox Dei" is not dedicated to them. That amendment demolished that referendum proposal in one cold, cold, heartless stroke of pens. A dike of an outcome threshold was erected, a storm surge barrier of epic proportions. Once again, we're going into the history books. D66 voted in favour. The canals digging for power have in practice been replaced by closing canals building for power. In practice, at least 40% of the people have to stand up. That's hardly ever gonna be made. Let us be honest: the proposal is not much anymore. I am quite willing to look into Mrs Leijten's crib and say: oh, what a cute baby, coushy! But there's not a pretty baby left. There's actually a bit of a miscarriage. Question to Mrs Leijten: Does she agree with me? I will nevertheless advise my group to vote in favour of this law, but do not ask me why. Maybe I am going a little too far, but perhaps it is even better that it should be rejected, that we should go back to the drawing board and that we should take the report of the Remkes committee, the State Committee on Parliament's system, and that we should think carefully about what we really want with our democracy. Moreover, if we are going to talk about a 40% turnout threshold, which ultimately amounts to saying that the result is not valid, then perhaps we should also look at the results of the elections to the EU Parliament. Are they still valid? Because there are rarely so many people showing up that you get such a turnout. Maybe Soros and Frans Timmermans can just point out for themselves people they want to have in their climate court. Elections for representative bodies are never invalid. There is no threshold for this. Last month in Rotterdam a lousy 39% showed up, here in The Hague 43%. Is there anyone who says that less than 1% of the results are invalid? No, of course not. Why, then, in the referendum? In fact, in the referendum on the EU Constitution, twice as many people showed up as in the last elections to the Brussels Qibble Palace. Then which election is legitimate? Moreover, that historic referendum on the EU Constitution in 2005 would have been invalid under the new toxic rules that the Christian Union has messed with, because the turnout was too low. That is exactly why all those pharisees of the coalition parties, who have put a knife in the back of the referendum, now suddenly say they are in favour of the referendum. They know it's nothing. They know it's completely calved. Today's exercise provides them with plausible deniability. It gives them an alibi. They can now explain with a straight face and hand on the falsely beating demophobic heart: "We really are for referenda, you know. Look, we even voted in favour! We would very much like to bring democracy closer to the people. Really. Really." Meanwhile, they remain silent about the knife they planted between the shoulder blades of direct democracy, the knife that they then turned three more times. Premeditated murder, including alibi. You could say that such a towering threshold is needed, because otherwise only a small part of the population has spoken. That's pertinently not true. After extensive research, the eminent political scientist Tom van der Meer of the University of Amsterdam notes that referenda are representative from the turnout of 25% to 30%. So when a quarter comes up, that already reflects what the people want and find. He says that the outcome threshold, which we have with this proposal, makes the referendum a dead letter in the law, a tantalus torment for citizens. He's right about that. You really don't need that colossal 40% to know what the people want. You just need that 40% to get this proposal to the other world. It's funny: it's a referendum law that's killing the referendum. But it's not really funny. Since I'm not the worst, I'm considering making a real motion in second term. I rarely make any motions, but today I might do so. It will be a motion asking the Minister to hold a referendum at all times on the day of elections, before the Chamber, before the Provincial States, before the city council or before the EU Parliament. Then there is at least a basic turnout, which can be increased by the subject of the referendum. That's a small lifeboat for a drowning man who's almost drowned. In some states in America that works: you vote in favour of a parliament or the president and at the same time you may sometimes vote in favour of a number of referendums. You can see it: I am thinking positively again today! There's something else weird. The Constitution, which we are discussing today, forms the basis of our legal system. It offers a series of guarantees, principles if you like, or principles, such as freedom of expression or electoral system. But that's as far as it goes. The rest is worked out in laws. That also makes sense, because that's the system. But strangely enough, the coalition parties are violating that constitutional principle. With their destructive killer amendment, the implementation, that crazy outcome threshold, is already shattered in the Constitution. That's a strange figure under state law. I'd like to hear if Professor Van Raak agrees with me. After all, he studied for it. It seems to me above all an illustration of how important it is for the coalition parties to ride the killer amendment. They're even about state corpses. That is how crucial it is for them to defuse the referendum. I have the same question to the Minister. She is giving advice today to the petitioner. What is the Minister's position on this exercise? After all, she is the guardian of the Constitution. Doesn't she think this is a strange figure? We don't know this at all, do we? It's weird, by the way, that the First Chamber has agreed to this. It's the chambre de réflexion, isn't it? They are smiling their cigars again to see if the laws we make here are in good shape. That's their right to exist, isn't it? Or should we once again say today that the First Chamber is simply a political body and that we should therefore abolish it as soon as possible? What a tragedy! The vast majority of our people want the referendum. This has been evident for decades from any survey of opinion, but the left-liberal elites do not want it and so it does not happen in the end. It's as simple as that. This brings us straight away to the reason why the referendum is so incredibly necessary, because in our democracy it is not the people that governs but the left-liberal elites. What they want happens. What do we mean by elites? That's easy. These are the leading circles of the institutions of the Netherlands, that is to say the media, the universities, the high civil service, the justice system, the museums, the trade unions, the churches and the art world. In the Netherlands a small group rules, which always gets its way. Politicologists have been looking at nearly 300 possible policy changes over the past 30 years. Possible policy changes are just ideas or proposals, for example because you think that something needs to change. Some ideas become policies, but other ideas don't happen anymore. What ideas will become policy? That is quite simple: the ideas that are supported by the highly educated Netherlands, by the academics. Their will is law. Do the low-educated get what they want? Yes, but only if they agree with the highly educated. I quote the researchers: "This conclusion has great consequences. If training groups were equally represented, the Netherlands would look very different. Social services would be expanded, the differences between rich and poor would be smaller, immigration would be more limited, crime would be tackled harder and European integration would be reduced." The result is that from above we are forced on all kinds of things that the Netherlands does not want at all: immigration, wind turbines, EU, diversity drama, biomass plants, insecurity, drugs, head wipes, asylum seekers centers, solar panels and anti-blank racism. In short, the whole joke drum that left-liberalism has paid over us. Why, for example, is the State of the Netherlands conducting a war against Black Piet? Is that because our people dislike our dear, hardworking childhood friend? No, our people are massively choosing Black Piet, but our left-liberal media, the left-liberal universities, our left-liberal justice system, museums and so on come in synchronized action, they play ball to each other, they mock each other, they ridicule opponents, and then it's a done deal: our people have it checked. Why do we have all these immigrants in the Netherlands? What election programme has that been in? How the hell did the power of our own country move towards a caste of unelected Eurocrats in Brussels? Is that because one day the people thought: we no longer want power over ourselves? What election programme has that ever been in? Not in any of them! It is difficult to be optimistic about our democracy. We used to be a country of seclusion, with various groups of people who kept each other in balance and gave each other something. And we had a separation of powers. But that's all over. Now all the elite have the same ideology. It's a unique experience in our history and it's dangerous. That ideology is the ideology of climate socialism, of diversity culture, of Europhilia and of gender ideology. In the crucial places in our society are all the same people, with the same meninks and the same antipathies. It always smells like NRC Handelsblad, VPRO, D66 and GroenLinks. It's the yoga mats, the quinoalades and the mindfulness students. They are people who can only think within a very limited bandwidth. That's where the power sits, not in the House of Representatives. The same cabal rules everywhere. And that sect, because that's what it is, provides itself with jobs and subsidies. They call out "diversity" and "sustainability" all day long. That doesn't mean anything, but with that they're monsters of being a member of a tribe, of the left-liberal tribe. It also means that they are available for jobs and grants. And everything outside the tribe should be excluded. Because they're just populists, Nazis, wappies, far right, tokkies, the gray, the underclass. Those people are preferably excluded. They harm the state of salvation that awaits us. That contempt also unites the elite. See the professional ban for PVV's, tough layoffs get our people to choose. Oh, you're from that party? Get the fuck out of here! In a coordinated action, the PVV is excluded by the four coalition parties for the local elections to govern at local level. That's agreed work. The ruling cabal knows very well what the result is: cut-offs, people who aren't going to vote anymore. But they don't give a shit. We also see today that the great winner here in The Hague happens to be my first policy officer, Richard de Mos........................................................................................................................................... Go behind that cordon sanitary; that'll teach you, my friend! In fact, we have become a one-party state. Professor Oerlemans established that 30 years ago. He's now, posthumously, more right than ever. From GroenLinks to the VVD, they are all merged around the same ideals. Climate socialism, Europhilia, diversity cult, gender ideology, with the poisonous woke ideology as a blow to the head. Is the referendum the panacea against all these evils? No, but it can sprinkle sand in the machine of the globalists of the unitary party. And that's a big deal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u71	There is an interruption by Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u72	I heard Mr Bosma's brilliant speech. I would like to put something to him, because his party, like mine, gets quite the same reproach from the cabal he describes. Which, by the way, I know very well; I myself, to my shame, have been walking around in it for years, I must confess. But it makes perfect sense, doesn't it? That's how it works. In the universities, in the media, you've got the same people spinning around in that job clique. They all find the same thing, read the same six books a year, and nothing more than that. That's their world. But the interesting thing is... Mr. Bosma is very well exposing these people's anti-democratic ideology. They have nothing to do with the population. They don't care at all. For 50 years, an overwhelming majority of the population wanted less immigration, but the cabal that controls our country wants more immigration, so it happens. But what I wanted to put to him: it's interesting anyway. I'm curious how he thinks about that. There are also differences between us, but the kinship is that we stand up for the population more generally, not an abstract universalist liberal ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u73	I don't hear a question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u74	It is interesting that our parties are so often accused of being antidemocratic, of putting the axe to the root of our democratic society and that sort of thing. It's a very interesting reversal. They are the anti-democrats themselves. They fear the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u75	And your question, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u76	Will Mr Bosma respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr Baudet is, of course, right. I have also mentioned Mr Van der Ham here today in other debates. He described in a column in De Telegraaf that he often comes on all kinds of occasions, which are not exclusively of D66's, but rather revolve around it, where he increasingly hears sounds that are essentially antidemocratic. At the elite of the Netherlands there is an incredible disgust, an enormous contempt and a huge aversion against the people. They see that as the asshole folk, the gray that is inclined to all evil. That must be excluded at all costs. The repulsion against democracy is everywhere. Because all these D66 figures see that democracy no longer does what they hoped. They always thought that democracy would mean that people would choose all kinds of left-wing ideals, the flowerpower ideals. But the opposite happens: Brexit, Trump and Orbán. That disgusts them. It'll drive them crazy. So the love of democracy they have ever confessed has completely evaporated. That's what's going to happen. Mrs. Ollongren, the minister's predecessor, was simply honest when she spoke at a meeting in the canal belt. There she really said: "If there are elections and the PVV wins, I do not acknowledge the results of the elections. I do not recognise the results of the elections." I'll just swallow the Second World War equations. But saying that you do not accept the outcome of elections and that there must be a republic of Amsterdam is contrary to democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u79	For example, D66 wants the climate emergency state...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Bosma, I'd like to say the following. Mrs Ollongren is not here today, so she cannot respond. I think you're just agreeing. I don't hear a question either, honestly. You're responding. Mr. Baudet, I'd like to ask you a quick question. Then Mr Bosma can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u81	Let's get a point to the chairman. I think you are talking about the order of the debate and not about the content. Whether we agree or disagree may prove to be the result of an interrupting debate. By the way, 90% of the people here in the Chamber are in agreement and are constantly squabbling with each other. So if it were so that two people agree with each other who find something different than the vast majority here, then I would say: eat your heart out. It's great that it happens someday. But I still have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u82	Yes. But I'm gonna say something. I do guard the order. An interruption is a question or comment. You're asking a question. Mr. Bosma is responding. I give you the floor to make a long interruption. Mr Bosma also has plenty of time. It's very interesting, but it's question and answer. So if you have a new question, I'll give you another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u83	I'm glad you find it interesting, too, thank you very much. My question is this. That the elite in the Netherlands is antidemocratic and has nothing to do with the majority of the population and with their opinions, we both note. What amazes me so much is that the very same people constantly associate the people who stand up for the majority of the population, who are sometimes called populists, with antidemocratic thinking. Our democratic-popular vision in the spectrum is the farthest away from fascism, for example. We are called fascists, which is absurd and the opposite of what we represent. If Orbán wins, they say: anti-democratic forces win in Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u84	Can you keep your interruption brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u85	My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u86	Your question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u87	My question is: how do you explain this reversal? That's so strange. They themselves are antidemocratic...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u89	Absolutely. That is, of course, standard procedure. Thom de Graaf invited Anne Frank to put Pim Fortuyn away and eventually to make him ready for slaughter. That's what happened. The D66 youth had a meeting in the Westerpark in Amsterdam where PVV's are called fascists. I remember a debate between Rob Jetten and Mr Baudet, in which the gas chambers immediately joined after two seconds. I remember the Kaagdocumentaire...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u90	Mr. Bosma, these are all people who can't defend themselves today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u91	No, but I'll give you examples with footnotes. They're all right about the Nazi equations that D66 constantly makes. Then Mrs Kaag asks the question: who are those people who vote for the PVV? And then there's the answer: they want the strong man. So that's a Nazi equation. Mr Baudet's question is: why is that happening? That happens, of course, to put critical minds in the corner of absolute evil. Pim Fortuyn belongs to Anne Frank; in short, Pim Fortuyn also wants to bring Jewish children to the concentration camps. That is, of course, the underlying idea. So critical minds are connected to absolute evil. That is a strategy that has been in place for 40 years. I can...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u92	I'm going to interrupt you now, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u93	I can give you ten to twenty arguments and examples: Eichmann and Pim Fortuyn, by Marcel van Dam...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u94	I'm gonna stop you right now. I would like to go back to the subject we are discussing today: Mrs Leijten's own-initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u95	I do indeed have a question on the subject of this debate. It's kind of funny how that works. Is the PVV for a turnout, as in Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u96	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u97	And why not, since that would, of course, solve the whole problem that everyone should be present, from all levels of the population and regardless of the background?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u98	It doesn't work in Belgium either; a lot of people don't come. And I don't really want to decorate democracy in such a way that you're forced to go somewhere, so to speak, with a gun to your head. That came up in the interrupting debate with Mr. Sneller, about motivation. He says, "Now people are getting more motivated." I hope he's right, but you're not gonna motivate people by saying, "If you don't come, you're gonna get a fine or something." I'd like to know if Volt's up for that. That wasn't another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u99	No, but I think it would be nice to exchange things in a debate, so I'll go into it. I'm not in favour of that either, for exactly the same reason. I am in favour of civil councils, which have also been mentioned before in other contributions from colleagues. I also have the question: is the PVV before that? Why I am asking this question so sec.............................................................................................................. But of course that is not an option either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u100	There must be no one from this society. We're not going to undo rowboats yet. Citizen counsel sounds like a lot of fun. The predecessor of this minister, Mrs Ollongren......... had once announced a bill called the right to challenge in good Dutch. Mrs Bromet seemed to be referring to that as well. Then there would be all kinds of clubs at local level that would then start to discuss. I'm not excited about it, because it means that all those GroenLinksers, Voltmen and D66'ers, who are highly educated and have learned to meet, get the highest word in it. And then we get all these crazy ideas from the left-liberal cabal, so the mass immigration, the biomass plants, those asylum seekers' centers and those crazy wind turbines. So that is not the democracy we need; I think that is precisely what we should not have. It is precisely with referenda that we need to tackle all these crazy ideas from the left. Let the people speak and then we can stop the ideals of the left. Then we won't have those wind turbines, those asylum seekers' centers and that mass immigration anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u102	Then we listen to the people and then the Netherlands becomes a much better country. If we had done that for the last 40 years, we wouldn't have had a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u103	A little shorter, Mr. Bosma. Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u104	I think I understand where the PVV is going with this. I would call myself part of the people anyway, but okay; we can discuss that. But in that case, if the referendum is the only solution, then this conclusion is very annoying. In that case, the PVV cannot go anywhere, except that it is a terrible society, hence the question of citizen advice. By the way, I shall come back to that later in my own contribution, which often goes through drawing lots. Then you have someone sitting at the table from all layers and parts of society. I agree with you that you should not ask Volt for everything, because I am perfectly capable of expressing our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u105	That Soros Club, Extinction Rebellion, wants that, too. They also want climate control or something, and that's what they're doing. The funny thing about all those funny left ideals is that when they get closer, people are against it. A funny example is the IJburg district in Amsterdam. Everyone will vote GroenLinks, Volt or D66. It's all those white yoga mats and quinoa figures over there. And then those people they voted for, namely those big wind turbines that "wow, wow, wow all day long!" Doing it and driving you crazy! Birds are chopped to pieces and fall to the ground. In short, they get their left-wing ideals in their front yard. And then what happens? Then all these people are gonna act because they don't want wind turbines anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u106	Thank you. We are now going to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u107	I heard that Mr Bosma had heard all sorts of things that I had not heard myself. So I thought: I'll tell you what I'm thinking when I'm talking about practical politics at local level. 'Cause that's what I was talking about. It is about the fact that the inhabitants of Marken, which is really not GroenLinksbolwerk, suffer from cars driving across the island. As an alderman, I put the people who were worried about that at the table, so the football club, the tennis club and the hotel owner, to say: this is the problem and how are we going to solve it? This is also a way of involving people in governments to solve problems. That's not about all the accusations being made right now. I don't get it either. We have been against the amendment and we are in favour of the legislative proposal. You are talking about left-wing liberals, but it is a proposal from a left-wing party. GroenLinks voted in favour of the bill and against the amendment, so I think we are on the same page. All these other things are blamed, but we are simply in favour of this proposal. We say things that the PVV also mentions when it comes to the threshold of outcome that has now been cycled in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u108	I remember the debate on destroying the consultative referendum. Then I had to fight with Mr Baudet against Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks. Ms Özütok van GroenLinks strongly supported the destruction of the consultative referendum. We're not on the same side at all. That consultative referendum should simply have been maintained. It wasn't much, but a child's hand is soon filled and this was something. For we have had wonderful referendums, for example, on this strange constitution of the EU. GroenLinks broke that. Mrs Özütok has spoken against this. We've been whining about her head for hours: come up with one argument. She had no argument at all. GroenLinks was in favour of destroying the consultative referendum. Please read the report of the debate at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u109	I just did. Mr Bosma confuses all kinds of debates. That's not what this is about. We are talking about this debate and this proposal. This proposal is supported, as I have just said by GroenLinks, but we have serious objections to the amendment, which we voted against. That's exactly the same as the PVV. So you can bring the whole world in, but when we talk about this proposal, we really have the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u110	If we agree, who am I to disagree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u111	Sounds like a nice ending to me, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u112	Isn't that right? I hear violins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u113	Let's... oh, too bad. It's not your fault, Mr. Van Nispen, but I thought it was a nice bow around it. Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u114	This one's short, I think. I think that in all his criticisms Mr Bosma might have been able to focus on those who are now either in doubt or have spoken out against this fine proposal. Take VVD, CDA or SGP. Those are the parties that I think we should convince today, so I think it would have been nice if Mr Bosma had focused a little more on that. I have another substantive question about this threshold. We share the criticism. I also regret that it is included, but that is the proposal now before us. Suppose that outcome threshold is not reached in any case. That can indeed happen, because it has been set rather high. Then we will certainly have a statement from the people, so that you can say that it is at least judged as a consultative referendum. Does Mr Bosma understand my question and how does he see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u115	Yeah, we got something. Something's better than nothing. It is a bit what Mr Sneller just said: at least you will have a referendum. So we shall also vote in favour. But the criticism is clear, namely that in the end, I fear, it will turn out to be an empty cap. But then it could be understood as a referendum, yes. Well, I think we're gonna be in the mood for consolation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u116	Then it is nice that we can conclude Mr Bosma's optimism, which we must pull out a little bit, today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u117	I always need you to get a little cheerful after all. I already agreed with Mrs Bromet, so I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u118	There you go. Mr Ephraim, Group of Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u119	I would like to thank Mr Bosma for his speech. I had made the sums about the outcome rates on the back of my cigar box too, you know. But isn't it a good idea to at least have something, plant the seed, salami tactics, to gradually push the left-liberal elite a little bit, massage what? In the end, the composition of this Chamber is only temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u120	Yeah, but I don't know if it's a plant, or if the plant's already dead, and it's a sunflower that crashed. I don't want to express myself in an overly negative imagery, but I don't know if this is really going to mean anything positive. I think it's just horny, that it doesn't help us and that the threshold of outcome is so high that it doesn't mean anything in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u121	I agree with you, of course, because that is the simple sum. But don't you think that the vox populi at a certain point in time is getting the hang of it and is gradually going to push for change? Of course, that's the straw the drowner can cling to before he sees his whole life flashing by in a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u122	Well, Mr Sneller says that this high threshold might be motivating. He may be a more positive person than I am. I'm afraid it's just demotivating. I think people say: it's so high, it's never gonna be made and so it's lost effort. Then I'm afraid those people are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Bosma. I shall now give the floor to Mr Strolenberg. Mr Baudet has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u124	I suspect there is even a disagreement between me and Mr Bosma here, Madam President. I hear Mr Bosma saying that it can be demotivating, that extremely high threshold of outcome. Of course it is. But isn't there a much stronger argument against it, namely that it is not only demotivating, but even more so, that it is going to be legitimizing for the people here, at every referendum? The outcome will always be: hey, the population is not to a sufficient extent opposed. Always. It is impossible to reach that threshold. So it is not only demotivating for the population, but also, I ask Mr Bosma, legitimizing for those half-threads that are fucking this country up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u125	Well, well, well. We're not gonna do that. It's not at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u126	I apologize to all the half-corers in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u127	That won't be necessary. I'm not giving you the floor right now, but I'm giving Mr. Bosma a chance to respond. Then we'll close this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u128	That legitization thing might be true. Then that demotivate. You can see, even in the recent municipal elections, that all these coalition parties say in advance: the PVV will never again. So in advance you will be excluded by the CDA, the VVD and D66, all those so-called democratic parties. They say in advance: the PVV is too dirty to deal with. What happens then? A lot of people think, you know, there's no point in voting. That is, of course, also the intention; those parties are the huge democrats who are doing so precisely in order to demotivate people. They say to the people: it doesn't make sense, we don't listen to you, you're the gray, you're the underclass, we're not with you. The indignation they have about my party's programme is, of course, highly selective, because GroenLinks, the former communist party of the Netherlands, has been cheering for decades for international communism. They all rule with that. That's never a problem. But my party is a problem. That's selective outrage. Exclude means demotivate people. It is very serious, in a democracy, that citizens are demotivated to fulfil their democratic rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u129	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Strolenberg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr. Chairman. We share with the whole Chamber, I think, the concerns of the author of the legislative proposal about the gap between citizens and politics, and that it is necessary to tackle that and to speed it up. That is what we are obliged to do. Not only because trust is needed for sufficient democratic legitimacy and support, but also because residents want to become more actively involved in social issues. I would also like to congratulate the author and the support, because they have done a lot of work. I also understand the background to the problem. We are also certainly in favour of initiatives to increase the involvement of citizens in politics. As a VVD, we just don't think that the referendum is the solution to bridge the gap between politics and citizens. The gorge...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u131	Why don't you finish your introduction first? Then I give the floor to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u132	As far as we are concerned, the gap must be bridged in a different and better way. That's a real job for ourselves. Already there are opportunities to involve citizens more in politics. Think of the different forms of participation that exist. As far as we are concerned, participation instruments and citizen participation should be given a boost from time to time. We want to proceed with concrete and urgent work on things that we can already signal. For example, it has been found that the awareness of internet consultations is rather low. A public campaign could give much more attention to this. They could be used more often, just like civilian fora. We should also look at improving the possibility for residents to come to the Chamber with citizens' initiatives. We would like to hear from the Minister who happens to be also present as an advisor...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u133	It's not that coincidence!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u134	Well, not by chance. We would like to hear from her about the existing instruments and how they can be better used. What new means does it see for it to develop confidence in, and in, politics and democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u135	Thank you. This is a good time, I think, of course, to give Mr Bosma the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u136	The first sentence, or the third sentence of Mr Strolenberg, I would like to say: I share the concerns about the gap between citizens and politics. But that is simply apekool, because the VVD ruled out my party and a number of other parties just before the municipal elections. Mr Strolenberg knows what the result is, namely that it is demotivating for voters. If Mr Strolenberg is so worried about this gap, why does he exclude a democratic party like the PVV throughout the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u137	If you want to get the voter's confidence, I think it's important that you be clear and transparent. I think that's what the VVD was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u138	In 1999 I was a VVD member myself. Then came Wiegel, the honorary member of the VVD, the oracle of Diever, into the Night of Wiegel with his infamous no. The first V in VVD stands for Volkspartij. The people may decide in Freedom, the second letter V, and sovereignty in the third letter, Democratic way. But does the VVD actually have any liberal principles left? Can you also replace those letters with "Random Dutch Party"? What does "VVD" stand for...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u139	I think that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u140	I think it is still the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Democracy also means that we can go to the polls once every four years. That is also the fundamental objection to this proposal for the correct binding referendum: we do not believe that this is in line with the representative representation of democracy. Citizens speak out once every four years, giving them the confidence to do the things they think are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u141	Citizens speak out once every four years because they are not asked for anything else. That seems perfectly clear to me. Mr Remkes, an unfamiliar VVDer, who has to be glued in a formation, has today called on the VVD to support this proposal. How can this be rhymed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u142	I have also heard that he has called for this. I have Mr Remkes high up. He's a very competent man in this matter. I think he has also spoken on behalf of the committee that has carried out the investigation. There were some 80 recommendations in the report. We agree with many points and recommendations. On the subject of the referendum, we are not. Fortunately, this can also be done within the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u143	Finally, Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u144	Fortunately, no group discipline in the VVD. I've never noticed that either. It seems to me that it is rather essential to disagree with Mr Remkes. Anyway, that's none of my business. I am not a representative of the VVD, but I wish them good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u145	I really want to believe Mr Strolenberg when he says he's worried about the gap when he says we have to do things to restore people's trust in government, democracy and politics. He says he's in favour of people being involved. He then comes forward with proposals to make internet consultations better known and for citizens' forums. Is the VVD's view that people are allowed to talk to them, but is co-decision for the VVD really a bridge too far? The people are allowed to speak. There is a high outcome threshold, against our will, but it could have provided some comfort for doubting parties. The signal must be very clear. A lot of people have to come to the polls and when those people say "this is really bad work from the House of Representatives," the VVD still says: we don't want that; we're not going to let people decide; no control over the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u146	No, I think that's what the elections are for. We are in favour of a representative democracy. Once every four years, people go to the ballot box and give confidence. We have to solve the problems. We shouldn't put that on the locals. I have paid attention to improving participation, to increasing civic participation. It is much more effective to involve people in the front and to belong to the shaping of policies. We see the reports. There are a lot of groups who feel less heard. With these instruments, you can pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u147	Of course. Of course, less attention should be paid to the lobby of industry and more to the interests of ordinary people, and we should involve people much better in politics. But it's natural and-and. You don't have to say: we're against a referendum, if we're going to involve people better in politics from now on. A binding corrective referendum will not be organised every week. I don't think we have to worry about that. I would like to ask Mr Strolenberg whether the effect of such a referendum can also be that the House of Representatives will do the job better. The effect may be that people are better involved in politics, because they are given the right to whistle back the House of Representatives if they make a decision that is contrary to the interests of people. That is also what the Bosman Committee has recommended. A lot has been said about it. We must also strengthen the work of the House of Representatives. This could not also be an effect of the correct binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u148	You're also quoting Bosman's report. As a representative of the people, I spend every day involving people in my choices. I get e-mails, I have calls, we make work visits. We pay much more attention to round tables, hearing parties. I am curious about the state of play and I appeal to look at groups that are currently less heard, for example young people. How can we somehow involve them more in the decision-making we are making here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u149	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u150	This does not require a referendum. I have a fundamental objection to this, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u151	I would like to give the VVD every proposal to involve people better in politics. I'm really listening to that today with interest. We have other debates to decide to do more about that. We may be able to agree on this, but today we are talking about the correct binding referendum. Mr Strolenberg speaks of a fundamental objection, but it is simply not right. Mr Strolenberg's partymate, Mr Remkes, has written a comprehensive report. I have just quoted it in full. Mr Strolenberg has heard that. It is an addition to parliamentary democracy. Mr Strolenberg cannot say: we think a little differently, we see that differently, we have a fundamental objection. Is there any debate in the VVD on this issue? Where is this new administrative culture that Mr Strolenberg's party leader talked about? The conclusion is that the VVD says it wants to involve people more, to let people talk more, but when it comes to speaking back, the People's Party says: no, you can vote once every four years and you can keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u152	Not in the form of a referendum, but there are more recommendations in the Remkes report. Besides, it's not... I don't feel obliged to take recommendations from every report from a committee without a hitch. Of course, that's what you're gonna do, and you're gonna weigh it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u153	Then Mr. Sneller. No, Mr. Van Nispen, we're interrupting in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u154	I asked if there was any debate about it in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u155	I can answer that: of course. That goes for every point. Anyone can bring in what they want, and eventually we'll decide a position. That won't be any different with your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mr. Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u157	But of course, this wasn't just a state committee. This was the state committee that came after the VVD motion in the Senate. This was the state committee chaired by a VVD. All this does not mean that you will have to accept everything, but Mr Strolenberg continues to refer to 'there are 80 recommendations in it and we will take some of them over'. There were, of course, a few in the front line: the chosen reformer, the correct binding referendum, constitutional review and a new electoral system. None of those four were in the VVD's election program. Mr Strolenberg did not comment on the substance of the motions on the chosen formattor and now again on the remedially binding referendum, but did not take them over either. Then there is my question about the substance of it. The state committee says that this involves a much wider section of the population in democracy. Much more than all the forms of participation at the front that you can only organize, no matter how many round tables we organize here. Can Mr Strolenberg at least comment on the substance of the argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u158	In that respect, we differ, and we should. In representative democracy, we have arranged for people to go to the ballot box once every four years. That's when people vote. At the end of the period they can decide whether they liked it or not, because that is ultimately up to the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u159	But the empirical conclusion of the state committee's problem analysis is just that people are dropping out. The substantive representation of the Chamber is insufficient. Check-and-balances are needed. On all these issues, there must be alternatives and additions to the substance. Mr Strolenberg and the VVD simply say no to all these additions. This will not be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u160	Not on all recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u161	Not on all recommendations. But that's the lame trick of "there's a table of 80 recommendations." These are the fundamental revisions of the electoral system, of how we set up representative democracy. I am also in favour of civil fora and getting more familiar with internet consultation, but these are not. Just consider the argument that there is a lack of substantive representation and that people do not feel involved and turn away. This is the instrument that can involve these people, more than all the other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u162	In that sense, I am only in favour of more participation, just not in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u163	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u164	As I said, we in the VVD Group are not in favour of the correct binding referendum. We believe, as a fundamental objection, that a correct binding referendum does not fit in with our representative representative democracy in which voters cast their votes in each election and then resolve the problems for and on their behalf. We should not shirk this responsibility on social issues where different interests often have to be weighed. In the case of a no vote, it is also not always certain what the alternative is. People with constructive criticism can only shoot a bill completely or embrace it completely and nothing in between. In a referendum, problems are likely to be approached too one-sidedly or only in the short term and not in all interests. Sometimes it seems like a simple solution, but there are all kinds of consequences and consequences that go farther. Here in the Lower House we hold the debate and make the decision. We wrap and weigh every proposal, collect information from members, engage in conversation with residents, companies and agencies, investigate matters, look at things integrally and make integral choices. Often with the necessary motions and amendments that we are tabling here or which we support. Moreover, in the opinion of the VVD Group, referenda are too coarse. Many complex problems cannot be reduced to a simple yes or no and cannot be looked at in black and white. The referendum also raises practical problems, such as the fact that the outcome can be declared non-binding if the turnout is too small. How does the petitioner view this? If there is too low turnout, does not the instrument threaten to widen the gap between the citizen and the government again? Can small groups of people vote in a referendum that is not declared binding? And what does that do with the credibility in politics? The referendum can also lead to disappointment among people. They may find that their interests have not been sufficiently taken into account. And then the social contradictions are only getting bigger. Mr President, I shall conclude. The VVD carries the word "democracy" with pride and conviction in its name. Let us work together to make our democracy even better for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Van der Graaf and then Mr Sneller. It has nothing to do with the speakers, but I would ask you to keep the interruptions shorter and more concise, given the time. I notice that sometimes we stray a little bit and that sometimes there are whole treatises. Use the second term for that. A brief question or comment. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u166	I agree with Mr Strolenberg of the VVD that the mandate with which elected representatives are elected is very important. I hear Mr Strolenberg making all kinds of arguments, but I have the feeling that he is mainly talking about the recipe of disappointment that was decided in the consultative referendum. I have not heard him make a fundamental argument against the binding corrective referendum, which can be seen as a complement to our system, which can be used as an emergency brake. In the present form of the proposal, it takes account of the mandate already elected by the parliament. Isn't that enough guarantee for the VVD to give this instrument a chance at the moment, with all the arguments that have been quoted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u167	Here in the Lower House we have the debate. We consider all the pros and cons of the proposals. We adapt things. In the event of a referendum, it is either a yes or a no. Here we have the same voting procedure on Tuesday, but here you have the opportunity to table amendments and to improve or amend points of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u168	That's right. The bill we are talking about keeps it all intact. Much has already been said about this high threshold. I will say something about this later in my speech. But that keeps it all intact. A decision by the Chamber cannot simply be set aside. I really want to call on the VVD to reconsider and consider giving this instrument a chance to complement our parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u169	We always want to think and think. On the contrary, however, we should focus more on the instruments that are now in place for participation and civic participation. We should throw a bitch on that. There are plenty of things that we can improve and that can be arranged quickly. Before the debate, I spoke to people about internet consultation. A lot of people don't know the instrument. Unknown makes unloved. If we pay more attention to this through public campaigns, we will get much more valuable information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u170	Mrs. Van der Graaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u171	I really wonder which world Mr Strolenberg lives in. The state committee does analyses, the SCP does analyses, an entire atlas about the Netherlands has appeared. Has Mr Strolenberg taken note of this? Does he know which people have dropped out, who do not participate in participatory democracy, as Mr Strolenberg just described?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u172	We have also talked in other debates about young people who do not feel heard. Even when we look at education, you can see the difference in trust and the feeling that people have that they can talk about the choices and decisions we make here. I think, for example, that you can reach out to those specific groups and involve them in choices we make here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u173	I look forward to the VVD's proposal to abolish the First Chamber, which they can only vote for or against. Mr Strolenberg has said a number of times: this is not compatible with representative democracy. The Council of State, as our constitutional advisor, says: it is possible. The state committee says it's okay. Then can he give an argument as to why he wouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u174	Well, because we think that's working well right now. I have indicated that there is improvement in the way we deal with participation. I do not want to make a choice in principle to opt for a correct-binding referendum now. There are other instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u175	You can say it's all working out fine now. That's not based on anything. No research says it all works fine, but you can find that as a VVD. But that is not the same as saying: it is incompatible with representative democracy. That is what Mr Strolenberg said in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u176	No, if they write that that's compatible, then so be it. Only now we're making another choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u177	Okay, but then it's possible to complement representative democracy without taking it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u178	That might be possible, but we're making a different choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u179	I almost got them all right. I had the arguments that would be taken from the opponent's stable almost all well predicted. They are: people cannot decide on all these complicated matters,...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u180	I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u181	Yeah, I'm gonna ask you a question about that. Secondly, that it would not be compatible with parliamentary democracy. That is not the case either, because the state committee has shown this in detail. Thirdly, that it will eventually become a yes/no issue. We do the same in the Chamber, because that is indeed a comparison. I really do not understand Mr Strolenberg's argument. I really want to ask him if he is going to discuss this again in his group, if the members of the VVD Group are going to look at this debate and if they are allowed to consider it themselves. Because this argument does not stand. Does Mr Strolenberg realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u182	No, this is the input, and the vote is Tuesday. Anything can happen. You are talking about a simple yes or a no, but we are having the debate here. If we amend, it may well be that we are in favour of a proposal, but that it will be amended in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u183	Yes, and eventually we will vote on the amended proposal. That is also a yes or a no, after a substantive debate. This substantive social debate can also take place in society if it comes to a referendum. That's what we saw at the tow law. One more point, Mr President. On the website of the VVD it says: a referendum does not go well with the representative democracy. I dispute that, Remkes disputes that and the Council of State disputes that. Everyone disputes that, except for the VVD. Now it comes: the Constitution calls on representatives of the people to vote, as they see fit. It just stays that way, doesn't it? What does that have to do with the proposal before us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u184	We are in favour of that election, once every four years, and it will continue to be so. That's what we're talking about on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u185	I get the impression that Mr Strolenberg is not really open to arguments from this side and from those in favour of the referendum. Mr Strolenberg and his contribution are a bit caught up in it. I regret that, because I think that some new arguments are being used. I am a little curious as to how the VVD Group will vote on this in a roll-call vote. Is it true that you are putting the opinion down as a fact: that is how we are going to vote? Or do you see any chance that the VVD members will make their own assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u186	In itself, we have agreements, especially on medical-ethical issues. Then we can vote differently. But we're trying to get out as much as we can. I think that is the same thing with you in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u187	Well, not always. I ask because I know that there are VVDs who are clearly in favour of direct democracy. I worked for one of them, Mr Opstelten. Then it was about the mayor's election, with everything. There are indeed people in your group, and I will not mention them by name, who have doubts about their vote against this proposal. I can easily imagine that the VVD members have their own consciences in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u188	Of course, everyone has their own conscience and makes their own choices. This is where I put the position as we discussed it. In the end, everyone is free to make choices. That's what we do specifically with medical-ethical issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u189	But don't you think this is also a matter of conscience? Maybe it's a personal consideration of how you stand in the proposal. Is it a right or not for people to hang on the emergency brake to stop something? Isn't that right in the VVD part of the debate, on which you could also have a free vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u190	That's right. It's possible that people think differently. Within the party there are different views on very subjects. This point was specifically discussed in the discussion of the VVD's electoral programme. A passage on the referendum in the electoral programme has been amended. In that sense, there is discussion within the party. We are going to work in the Chamber on the electoral programme as it has been established.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you. Mr Ephraim of Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u192	Two brief observations. Mr Strolenberg says that JA21 will also have group discipline. Those who followed the socialists: last week there was a motion of censure in which Mr Eppink voted differently from Mr Eerdmans. It's nice to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u193	I was sitting next to it. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u194	The second point is that Mr Strolenberg believes that representative democracy is working properly at the moment. I'd be happy to leave that on his behalf. Here's the question. Mr Strolenberg spoke of civic participation through discussion groups and consultative bodies. Let me put it this way: if I run a red light, there must be a penalty. Then I must be able to be whistled back. It doesn't work when my neighbors start a support group and tell Olaf not to run a red light, and they don't really like it that much at all. Who do you really think you're fooling around with talking groups, citizen fora and I don't know what? Not the people, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u195	People love to talk about topics. I think civilian fora is a very good tool. This will at least allow you to feed people with certain information about which they can get an opinion. I would like to return to what you said about democracy, which is working properly: I said, at the beginning of my speech, that it also deserves to be maintained. In this respect, there are plenty of points that can be improved. I'd like to bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u196	I think I heard Mr Strolenberg say that in civil fora you can feed people well with information. I thought the idea was that citizens would feed the politicians with information. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u197	If you finally want to enter into dialogue with each other, it's good that you know what you're talking about. That's how it works in civilian fora.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u198	Thank you very much for your input. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Let me also begin today by expressing my thanks, appreciation and compliments to Mrs Leijten as the new initiator of this law and as the one who continues this law. Indeed, an initiative-based process is incredibly special. This is particularly true when it comes to the Constitution. I would also like to thank Mr Van Raak, who has defended this proposal with great care in the first term and in the first reading, in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. Mr Van der Ham has a whole history in this too. Mrs Temmink has also made an important contribution. Mr. Chairman. It's a month after the municipal elections. They were elections with a very low turnout, also here in the city of The Hague. Something's going on. Here, the gorges in our country become visible at district level. In the richer neighbourhoods, where people are well, a rise of 70% or 80% is achieved. In the vulnerable neighbourhoods, often on the outskirts of the city, many neighbourhoods do not even reach 30%. That's an image that we also know nationwide. It comes out strikingly in the Atlas of the Netherlands. More and more people are threatening to drop out, even in our democracy. That happens in those places where large groups of citizens feel powerless. As the atlas says, there is a feeling that the political class no longer represents them and does not listen to them. It is difficult for the citizens who are dissatisfied with the way in which political decisions are taken and who want more influence themselves to participate less often in intensive forms of political participation, as Mr Strolenberg pointed out. Above all, they want to be able to pull the emergency brake. Mr. Chairman. I believe that it is a responsibility of all of us to bring democracy closer again, where people have ceased or are threatened with withdrawal, to give people the opportunity to wake up and correct politics in the extreme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u200	Die Atlas from the Netherlands is going to be another success. At least all the politicians have read it. Not me, I have to be honest. I do know one thing. What's the voice of those quitting people? If they vote, they vote for Geert Wilders. Then they vote for the PVV or the SP. That's what they vote. They hope that there will also be policies to meet this. But then we have a party like the Christian Union, which says just before the municipal elections: look at it, under no circumstances are we going to govern the PVV at a local level; we want nothing to do with that. So if the Christian Union really wants to give those people from the Netherlands a voice, then it should be that Mrs De Graaf's party says: we're going to rule with the PVV or we're not going to rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u201	I think it is important for the parties to make a local assessment. Let me be clear. I think it is important that we take account of the people who do not feel represented. I think it is important that we do everything we can to represent them and that we can now move forward with this instrument of the binding corrective referendum. Hopefully this will contribute to the representation that is so much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u202	That's not the beginning of an answer, is it? That's not the beginning of an answer. We're not even gonna talk about the binding referendum. I ask a very simple question and then Mrs Van der Graaf comes up with: local parties make their own assessment. No, an agreement has been made by all four coalition partners to speak out just before the municipal elections: we are under no circumstances going to govern with the PVV at local level. It's just imposed from above. It's agreed within the coalition. Those people from the Netherlands who have left the Netherlands want their ideas to be brought to the fore and become policy. That's why they're voting PVV. But the Christian Union says: under no circumstances will we govern with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u203	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u204	Then you just say to those people who left the Netherlands: look at it, we don't want anything to do with you, so stay in it; you'll never get it done. That's what you say, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u205	What local groups indicate is to local groups. I think it's important... I can say that here. I think it is important that, when we enter a government, we do justice to the rule of law. I think that Mr Bosma is asking me a question here in which the balance really lies with local groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u206	Do you have another question? We'll drift off the subject. A very short question and then we go back to Mrs Van der Graaf. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mrs. Van der Graaf is here shielding with the Atlas of the Netherlands. Those abandoned people are voting PVV. Mrs Van der Graaf is crying crocodile tears here: oh, those poor people, we must be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u208	Your question to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u209	Those people vote PVV and the Christian Union says, agreed from above within the coalition... All four coalition parties said it on the same camera on the same day: we do not rule with the PVV. Then you just say to those people who left the Netherlands something completely different from what Mrs Van der Graaf is saying now. Then you say to those people, "Fuck you." Does Mrs. Van der Graaf agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u210	No, I do not agree with Mr Bosma. If you're an elected representative, you're not just speaking on behalf of your constituents. You'll be a popular representative for everyone. Then you also have a responsibility to stand up for those people who have dropped out. That doesn't depend on whether you've given your vote to the PVV or given your vote to the Christian Union. That is why I am standing here today to argue that we should listen to this part of the population that does not feel represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u211	You're going to continue your speech again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u212	Mr. Chairman. At the first reading of this bill, I indicated that we strongly support our representative democracy with proportional representation. This is a special system that also ensures that minorities can be heard. It invites and also forces us to work together and bridge differences. Perhaps it is a system that makes the Netherlands the Netherlands, but this system is certainly not perfect. This was also pointed out by the Remkes State Commission at the time. The line between fruitful cooperation and incomprehensible compromises can sometimes be thinner than previously envisaged. What in the Hague bubble is a logical negotiation result, is sometimes not explained in the villages and cities. Sometimes our system does not lead to connection and bridging, but rather to removal and incomprehension, especially among those people in neighbourhoods and regions where politics seems to be very far away. Then a binding corrective referendum with a clear question could be an opportunity. The Christian Union has long been in favour of this. I would also like to defend this as an instrument that really complements our parliamentary democracy and does not conflict with it at all, as has just been argued by the VVD. It's a supplement to that. It should function as an emergency brake. That's how the Christian Union looks at this. It could complement the system, especially for those who feel that they have lost their influence and control over it. A correct binding referendum can therefore be an instrument that supports representative democracy, but it should not undermine it. Because it is quite something that a decision by a parliamentary majority can be undone. We, as a group, therefore follow the reasoning put forward by the Council of State: the level of the thresholds is crucial for the functioning of the instrument. The thresholds are therefore such an essential part of the instrument that they also belong in the Constitution. I note that the author did not choose to do so at first reading. It has been part of the debate. The Council of State warned that we should not be able to adjust the thresholds too easily, because a referendum with too low thresholds could lead to the proclamation of a referendum that in practice cannot count on substantial support from the population. We believe that this is an important element to be taken into account. That is why I tabled an amendment at first reading to bring the thresholds into the Constitution. The State Committee has pointed out that the higher a threshold is set, the higher the turnout must be in order to reach that threshold. I see that point. I therefore think it is important for us to take action to promote turnout. A high turnout is necessary because it is only in this way that you can justify a decision by a parliamentary majority to be corrected by a negative referendum result. In elections where the turnout is low, the least interested voters do not usually go to the polls, while the most politically interested people, perhaps the highly educated, do participate to a large extent. We must prevent the referendum, by setting a low threshold of outcome, from further strengthening existing inequalities in political participation and thus social discontent among certain groups. That is why we have proposed a threshold in line with the opinion of the Council of State which takes into account the way in which majorities can be found in the Lower House and the rise of the last Lower House election. If we want to make a serious effort to promote the emergence of referendums, then that requires some of us. The Council of State considers this to be an important condition at the threshold of outcome and recommends that measures be taken to this end and that as much as possible be taken into account in the voting process. Mr Bosma has just suggested the same thing. He's even considering a motion on this point. I would almost like to say that I would like to submit it, depending on what the text means. I think that's important, because a high turnout doesn't just happen. In international research, too, we see that, if we do not join a ballot box, we will find that more difficult. So I think it's good to think about that. What possibilities does the Minister see for this? Should we look at a referendum day, as organised in Italy? I think that too is a suggestion to look at. Mr. Chairman. My group hopes that we will adopt this draft Constitution, not because it will make our work here in the Chamber easier, but to prove that our representative democracy is there for everyone, including for people who are threatening to drop out or that stage is already over. I would very much like to ask the groups that voted against this proposal at first reading to reconsider this and to take into account what has been exchanged in the debate. I call on them to give this instrument a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u213	Thank you. Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u214	I indicated in my term that I supported that amendment, because I want it to have a chance of success. Mrs Van der Graaf makes a passionate plea for the remedially binding referendum. I ask her how she looks at all the experts, behavioral scientists and politicians who have said that this is actually too high. Is it prepared to include a lower threshold in the next legislative proposal and then support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u215	I've taken note of that. I still think it's a question of whether it's too high. It was a very important starting point for the Christian Union to use the binding corrective referendum as an instrument. We take into account the mandate and the legislative process that is taking place here in the Chambers. You should not be able to sidestep a decision that has been made democratically. The instrument is binding and corrects. We really see it as a supplement and emergency brake. I don't think you should set the threshold too low. This is the proposal I made. I have found that the House of Representatives has agreed to this and that no other proposal has been put forward to do so. The applicant did not, at first reading, adopt the opinion of the Council of State to include a threshold in the proposal. I can see that. I also note that the Senate has finally agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u217	This has led to the creation of a majority. We would really like to give the instrument a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u218	I know, but that wasn't the question. The question was: is Mrs Van der Graaf also willing to consider a lower threshold? At least we're not talking too low. All these scientists also say: representative is the lower limit, but the upper limit must be realistic. I also supported that, because I think it is important that we make it, and for that we need no less than 100 seats here and 50 seats there, in the First Chamber. Only, these scientists also say: this is a very complicated behavioral story. I know Mrs. Van der Graaf as someone who listens to scientists. How does Mrs. Van der Graaf get back when she's heard all that? Apart from the fact that it was voted on, is it prepared to accept a lower threshold on the content and still support the correct binding referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u219	I do not want to rule that out, but I argued at first reading and today that we think it is very important that we take account of the mandate that elected the Chambers. That is why we have proposed not to include a fixed percentage as a threshold, but to hang it on the majority resulting from the last parliamentary elections. That seems to us to be more just, even if I look at the arguments put forward by the Council of State. That was the line and the starting point of my group to propose this. I am always willing to look at other considerations, but I do know that this was a very important starting point for my group at the time and it is still a very important one. The inclusion of this threshold in the Constitution is crucial to our support for this proposal. The author did not choose to do so at the time, and that is why we were forced to table that amendment as we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u220	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u221	I will simply take up the openness that Mrs Van der Graaf is prepared to continue to think about it and that she has seen the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u222	Yeah, I've definitely seen that one. I, too, have seen that there have been some referendums in New Zealand, where they have achieved that turnout. When the turnout for the Lower Parliamentary Elections was reduced, the outcome threshold for this referendum would also be lower. So we follow the line of the Council of State. In New Zealand, for example, it was about the corrective tick and compulsory retirement. Those were apparently topics that lived hugely in society. The public felt that there was a turning-off here from the politics that we cannot support. This is how the Christian Union sees it that this instrument can also be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u224	For example, I am very curious what the results would have been if we had had the instrument on a subject such as the corona law, which also lives very much in the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Inge Van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, much appreciation for the initiators. Because whether you're for or against, at my house, they've always taught me: if you dare to stick your neck out for something like that, you're already a winner in advance. That's what I'd like to say. Mr. Chairman. Citizens need to be given more say about the organisation of our society. Most people also want to have more to say on important political issues. That is the argument put forward by the applicant in order to come forward with this proposal. That vision is shared by the CDA. The petitioner also states that this must be done by introducing a binding corrective referendum. People get the right to whistle back the drivers when they make decisions that people don't want. According to the author, the binding referendum offers this possibility. In this assumption of the petitioner is the aspect of: politics does not listen, and therefore there must be an emergency brake. I'd like to go into that in more detail. Because, yes, there is a big gap between citizen and politics. This gap contributes to the feeling of citizens that they want to make their own choices, to take matters into their own hands. We share with the author the need to look for new forms of democratic governance to reduce that gap. My group believes that politics is more than just voting. A good decision does not depend on the sum of political preferences. It needs to be fed by the political debate in advance. And politics is looking for majorities before anything. Politics is about commitment and support; about the ambition and the ideals to make our country better. The referendum and the image of an emergency brake is appropriate. With an emergency brake, you stop a tram, a train, but don't change the course or direction. The referendum is also popular with many people, especially those who are dissatisfied with politics and want to be involved in decision-making. I understand. So there is a task for us as politicians to encourage people to take part in decisions on matters that are at their heart. That must be done in advance, so that better decisions can be made that serve citizens better rather than we should vote bad decisions away. Isn't it really very bad that, after decision-making, we come to the conclusion that there may be no basis for anything at all? And yes: involving that in decision-making of residents is complex and requires energy. It can lead to intense debates and may slow down decision-making. But we shouldn't be afraid of that or run away from it. We have to step into that and dare to go for it. Mr. Chairman. We're not against change. On the contrary. We support the need for political renewal. Our programme makes several proposals that do not strengthen talk politics but make room for listening politics. Let me give you two examples. For many years now, the CDA has advocated a regional electoral system. By choosing a part of this Chamber regionally, we strengthen the link between the electorate and the elected. Take it from me: a regional MP learns to listen; that is what the people in his or her region are doing. But I would also mention the citizens' council, a new platform in which we intensively involve citizens at the front of a decision and ask them for their opinion. That can be done nationally but also locally. Locally, it happens a lot. As an alderman, I used that drug all the time. Citizen's Council is an excellent way of allowing forgotten groups to speak and to give them a voice again. By increasing the involvement at the front, the need to intervene afterwards becomes much smaller. Politicians who trust citizens, a government that is curious about the knowledge, experience, care and needs of residents and dares to ask them for help: that is a new governance culture. Let them decide instead of stopping something. Mr. Chairman. After my introduction to what the CDA would like in an ideal world, which we must continue to work hard on together, I give our reflection on the content of the proposal itself. The proposal for the corrective referendum as it stands has been defined. A number of issues cannot be taken into account. As far as we are concerned, that is right. An outcome threshold has also been introduced through the amendment. In fact, a majority of the votes cast in the most recently held Lower House elections are laid down in the Constitution. The aim was to make the referendum a complement to representative democracy. The instrument will not be used lightly. Application of this should be an exception. The referendum should therefore not infringe the representative system. The proposal is therefore an emergency brake, with the risk of a hand brake that locks everything and the risk of a veto in which it is easier to find majorities against something than coalitions for something. We see the latter as a very important mission: finding majorities for something. One last concern that I would like to share. How do we prevent complex issues from being treated as something simplistic to which a yes or a no is justified, in a world in which the spread of disinformation is the order of the day? A number of Members of Parliament have already addressed this. I'd like to have a reflection from the author on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u227	There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u228	One of the concerns of the CDA is that this proposal would lead to a veto, which would be very easy to stop. But I think we have just found in the debate on the threshold of outcome that it is very difficult to stop anything. Mrs Van Dijk also heard this discussion. Can I get a response from the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u229	If we have to choose what we would like to do to change something in the Netherlands and really bring democracy closer to the citizens, then we really want to choose to use much more, to the maximum, to strengthen the front. We don't choose to delineate the back and make a hand brake. As a matter of fact, yesterday I had a reception from a volunteer who said goodbye. Of course, it was on this subject, because it is alive. That it's alive is beautiful. There were three people I was talking about. One of them said, "Yeah, we should do that." The other one said no, don't. The third said: Are you for or against gas extraction in Groningen? We were an hour away. That's where my concern lies. We sometimes think that things are very simplistic, but it finds so much way that we do not take sufficient account of. We might shoot ourselves very hard with that in our feet. We could have prevented that if we had more solidly decorated the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u230	The good thing is, we don't have to choose. Indeed, we can better involve people in advance. All good ideas are welcome. We're all gonna talk about that. Maybe there will be motions today. That's all fine. But that doesn't mean that it can't be that you need an emergency brake, because that could bridge the gap there is. The group chairman of the CDA has also said very nice, valuable things about the Atlas of the Netherlands. Now the main thrust of Remkes' proposals is precisely to improve the substantive representation and strengthen the resilience of the democratic rule of law. Those are exactly the things the CDA has been right to be so committed to all along. Finally, I would like to say the following to the CDA. A few weeks ago, the CDA voted differently in the second reading of a Constitutional proposal than in the first reading. I liked that. I thought that was brave. That witnessed moving insight and wanting to take account of the passing of time. I really want to call on the CDA to look at this proposal in this way too. Something's changed. There's a rift. We can certainly do something about that with this proposal. Besides, we don't have to leave all the other things the CDA is proposing. We can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u231	The Atlas of the Netherlands is saying something very beautiful. He also says: there is a part of the Netherlands far less gone. That part of the Netherlands is the part where there is a lot of social cohesion, where people talk with each other beforehand and where there is a strong association life. We believe that we really need to invest so much more in that. We really think that this is more important at the moment than setting up an emergency brake at the back. We have to choose, because one isn't there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u232	Mr. Sneller, D66. Mr. Bosma first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u233	Is the CDA going to vote for or against this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u234	As things stand, we are going to vote against this proposal. Mr Van Nispen said nicely: "Please let us listen to each other with a warm heart and a cool head. Let's share arguments to make each other change their minds." Unfortunately, however, I have heard a lot of judgments and words of which I am genuinely someone who has had reasonable doubts: well, if we are going to have a debate on something so fundamental as civic participation and let people participate, then I feel that not everyone in the Chamber takes it as seriously as we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u235	That's a nice thought. Mr Van Nispen also referred to the position of the CDA, not only with regard to the constitutional revision, but also with regard to constitutional review. For example, this corrective binding referendum was also included in the CDA Limburg election programme in 2018. So there are really nice moves, I guess. My question to Mrs Van Dijk is: what would it take to get the CDA on the other side, as it were?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u236	What's it gonna take? Yes, the CDA is indeed open to those arguments and we are on the move. We're thinking about it all the time. I'm trying to explain once again that we really want to decorate that front much better and feel like we're building a society together, with more us and less me. We want to strengthen these social structures so that people can talk with us. In fact, I hope that at some point we will come to the conclusion that it may not be necessary at all, because we have really had a change with each other. So that is what the CDA needs, and that is what we are still not seeing, despite all good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u237	Social cohesion, I think, is a bit of a tricky one. I believe that we would like to see and support all proposals on more citizen councils and more participation, more participation and so on. But what if in ten to fifteen years, or perhaps sooner, it turns out that there are still the same gaps, confidence figures and feelings of not being represented? In fact, all the analyses of that state committee now say that it is much deeper than just this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u238	I firmly believe that we will have this debate with each other very often in the years to come. I also feel that if we say no to this now, that does not mean that we will never talk about it again in the future. So the moment it appears in five, six or three years' time that there is no improvement and that all the initiatives we have taken with each other are not working, this comes back on the table. Then we are going to look at it again with an open eye and discuss it, as we have done with a lot of proposals. You are right to point out that the CDA is thinking about it and is also prepared to move in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u239	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u240	Three years at the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u241	Thank you. I suggest we suspend briefly for five minutes. Then we'll move on. I also propose that we take Mr Baudet's input after dinner break. Unfortunately he is not there, but his registration was also a bit later and we had taken into account that we would have a dinner break around 19.30. So I suggest we stretch our legs for a little while and then we move on. The input of Mr Baudet from Forum for Democracy will then be made after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u242	I ask the members and the advisers to take their place again. Look, I see they're on their way. Then perhaps Mr Bishop can go to the chair. I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u243	Madam President, thank you for the floor. "The referendum is dead; live the referendum!', I read the other day. With this innuendo on a well-known spell, former colleague Van Raak took up the gauntlet after the abolition of the consultative referendum to return to a referendum in another form. The innuendo is playful and optimistic, but when you think about it, this scream is a bit rattling. I have to make that remark. I therefore see this spell as a symbol of the perseverance of the initiator to make something of the referendum. The SGP appreciates this commitment to strengthening parliamentary democracy. I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that Mr Leijten subsequently fell for this. We also know her perseverance, so that it has been brought to a second reading is in itself worth a compliment. Mr. Chairman. It is important that this legislative proposal should put the shadows of parliamentary democracy on the agenda. That is something we must constantly be alert to. The SGP is a warm supporter of parliamentary democracy, but indeed it has its shortcomings. Over time there have been more slippages, and there are comments to be made. One of the points we encounter is the question of whether the position of the lower educated and those with lower incomes is sufficiently recognizable in the policy and composition of the Lower House. Is it not a justified criticism that globalist political elites often have too little regard for the large group of citizens who attach importance to protecting national identity and sovereignty? A referendum could give the citizens who are under-represented a better position. But I also have a few comments to make. Reference has been made several times to the report of the State Commission: Low thresholds, high dikes. If I listen to that, then I think that is also a bit inherent in the fact that this is a legislative proposal that concerns the corrective referendum. Some colleagues have already pointed this out. The discussion narrows a bit to the question of "whether or not a referendum?', While the report also mentions many other ways of involving citizens in developments. Then it's about investing on the front, making sure that as a political party you are not just in election time, but, as it were, permanently in conversation and constantly picking up and communicating and explaining what is going on and what is going on. So I'm saying you're investing in the voters, whether that's your electorate or that of another group. This openness is very helpful, as is our experience, but well, it is still quite clear in terms of scope; I also admit that immediately in order to strengthen confidence in politics. Mr. Chairman. There are also some hooks in the referendum itself. What if the issue of legislation on sustainability or climate action is on the agenda for a referendum? In fact, my question to the Minister is on these points: what possibilities does the Minister see for further development of this so-called 'deliberative democracy'? There too, the report of the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities gives good impetus to the parliamentary system. Mr. Chairman. What is the government going to do to encourage the States-General to truly represent the entire Dutch people, as Article 50 of the Constitution puts it? Mr. Chairman. Much discontent about democracy has to do with simplistic definitions of democracy. That is also what we need to discuss. An important assumption, for example, is that the will of the people would be easily established. I think that, frankly, it is one of the most difficult jobs in a democratic system. Parliament would then have too little sense of popular will and would be a sta-in-the-way. This therefore leads to overstretched expectations and then to great disappointment. Does the initiator recognise the risk that the referendum can also contribute to the disappointment in this sense? Madam President. The SGP sees the growing dominance of European and international rules as an important background to concerns about our parliamentary democracy. It's not the only one, but it's an important factor. In many areas, there is little left for Parliament to choose by means of an increasingly finer network of rules that is being extended from Brussels to our society. A referendum is not going to help that. In fact, the proposal deliberately excludes international conventions. Does this not confirm precisely the sceptical view that politically important matters are shielding from popular influence? Why should bilateral treaties, conferral of powers or setting up European institutions that involve you as a country not be subject to a referendum? Mr. Chairman. Research into referenda shows strong objections that weigh at least as much for the SGP as the potential benefits. Thanks to Mr Van Nispen, who has listed them all and thinks he has rejected them, I repeat a number of them, because I think they are realistic. The final choice, for or against, yes or no, inevitably has a huge simplification in it. That is just as different from voting in favour or against as a Member of Parliament on Tuesday afternoon, because then you have made that whole consideration of all the factors if it is okay with all of us as a group. At least it's your job to do that. A second point. Well, no, let's not go too far, 'cause I see my time is running out. Mr. Chairman. I just mentioned the point of a climate law. I would like to give this consideration to the warm supporters of the referendum, because it is an issue that is extremely complex. Imagine this. A lot of professionals have been consulted. In the end, there is a balanced proposal. This will be put into a referendum. That must be reduced to yes or no, for or against. Think also of all the financial consequences; the citizens already see the tax and so on, and so on. Then you run the risk of getting rid of something that, in the opinion of many, is crucial. We should not underestimate that risk. I understand the desire to try to increase engagement by means of a referendum, but let us not count on it in advance. I am not talking about the content of such a climate law or whatever at the time we even voted against it, but beware: it is not just a smell of roses and moonshine when it comes to a referendum; there are shadows on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u244	I hear Mr Bishop say: you run the risk of something that is crucial being wiped off the table. In other words, the Dutch people would vote against something they should vote for in Mr Bishop's view. But who is he to determine that? Look at the laws that are being passed here and at the policies that have taken place in the Netherlands over the past few decades. Think of massive immigration, the absurd and priceless climate plans, leading a war in Ukraine with all the NATO enlargements, and you name it all, European unification, the disastrous euro coin, which now makes life unaffordable everywhere, the evaporation of our pensions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u245	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u246	... and the decay of education: just the ruins left here by the people who run this country for decades. Then it's almost as bad as it gets, isn't it? I'm writing in my last book, The Corona, about the mischief with regard to corona. Even if you put a drunken wanderer in the Tower who is constantly starnacle and is not powerful at all in the Dutch language, you would have a more rational and better policy in the Netherlands than we have seen in the past decades. How is it possible that Mr Bishop thinks that the population could make even worse choices than the pipos here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u247	Well, well, well. I just told you, let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u248	So I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u249	No, we agreed: a worthy debate with mutual respect. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u250	I think it is good that Mr Baudet is making the effort, at least, to keep to himself in terms of language. I don't think it's very successful, but that's up to him. Look, we can now have a debate on the policies of the past few decades, but that does not make any sense. I think we should now focus on the ifs and buts of a referendum, on the shadows, the pluses, which can also be attached, and the alternatives. I think it would be wiser to focus on that. When I have time, I would like to take note of your publication; I have no objection to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u251	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u252	In my view, the content of the policy is not at issue here. We need to arrange another debate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u253	Mr Baudet, but with a shorter interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u254	In fact, Mr Bishop does not say in so many words, but he is more in his department than my own that people are going to make wrong choices when there is a referendum. In his view, that is indeed an argument against the referendum: wrong choices. But over the past decades, we have seen that parliaments and governments are constantly making wrong choices. So my point is about this referendum law. I will really put it as a question: how does he come to think that the population would make a dumber or worse policy than the elected and the executives? Where did he come up with that? What the hell is that based on? 'Cause if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u255	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u256	I like to talk about my own words. Mr Baudet's choice of words in this connection is not mine. I'm gonna distance myself from that. What I meant to say, I think that could have happened fairly well too, is that you have to deal with very complex issues, which even in this gremium give rise to misunderstandings. If you then have to communicate and communicate through the media, I wonder if that will lead to a better result. That's actually what I'm wondering. I understand the pluses and minuses of a referendum, but the essence of my objection is: I wonder if that is the remedium that reduces the problem we are dealing with, namely the growing distance between voters and elected and administrators. I have my doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u257	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u258	"I have my doubts" is a euphemism for: I do not believe it is. Why don't you just say that? You believe this is not the case. You say it's about solving that gap, but it's about the content of policy. In the two examples of major referendums in the Netherlands, on the European Constitution and on the Ukraine Association Treaty, the population was right and the directors were wrong. This applies to almost every major issue: immigration, climate law, the introduction of the euro, you name it. The population is much more right than the self-appointed elites who run this country. That is the point of the referendum. The gap, this and that, I wonder if the policy... that's all jargon. The essence is: who do you ultimately give the keys to power? Who are you gonna let decide the policy at the end of the day? The SGP is against the policies that are being pursued here, in many respects, as well as the Democracy Forum. Does Mr Bishop not agree with me that the people, the majority of the population, are on the side of the SGP and FVD when it comes to immigration, the EU, climate policy and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u259	You repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u260	Why don't you want to find that natural ally?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u261	I think I have sufficiently explained the shadows of a referendum system. Unfortunately for Mr Baudet these were not removed by his speech. In addition, we have been elected as representatives of the people here. From that responsibility, knowing what is alive and how it is thought, we make our own choice. That is our responsibility. It is not our responsibility to think: the people are right. No, sometimes the population isn't right. There are examples of this in the past. I will not go into that further. It is too simple, too simplistic to say: the people are right. No, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u262	Thank you. I thank you and give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Who's afraid of the angry citizen? That seemed to be the central theme in this debate. Feel free to fill in for "bad" "involved" or "disgruntled." With regard to JA21 today, we are talking about something that should be taken for granted in any serious democracy: the possibility for citizens to whistle back power, directly, unconditionally and legally. There are some difficulties, but with this bill an attempt is made to give Dutch people this right constitutionally. I would like to congratulate Mrs Leijten, her predecessor, Mr Van Raak, and Mr Van der Ham on this on behalf of my group. Mr. Chairman. The administrative elite often seems to live in a parallel reality in this country. In key areas, policies have sometimes been implemented for decades that directly run counter to the interests and often also the will of the Dutch people. There is a consistent imbalance between the views of the people on the one hand and the views of this Chamber on the other. This is serious and undermines confidence in representative democracy. Take immigration. If Dutch people are clear about something, then it is the desire to reduce immigration significantly. I mention a few findings from Kantar's large-scale study of 2010. Only 14% of all Dutch people do not want immigration restrictions. Only 9% of the Dutch want asylum seekers in the Netherlands instead of in their own region. Only 28% of the Dutch believe that status holders are allowed to stay permanently in the Netherlands. Only 6% of Dutch think there is room for further population growth. Everyone, therefore, minority views in society, but at the same time the norm in this Chamber. How is it possible that Dutch people want massive immigration restrictions, but the cabinet has been booking successive immigration records for years? The simple answer is twofold. One. Because the majority of the parties hardly disagree on this issue and the parties who do want to do something else skilfully keep out of the boat, making little difference to which ball of voters once every four years have colored red. Two. Because citizens do not have the opportunity to hang on to the emergency brake when their representatives push through something that is not supported by society. I mention immigration as one example, but I am convinced that Dutch people would be governed differently and better if we gave back power to society. Do you really think that we would still send billions of transfers to southern Europe and dump 60 billion in climate and nitrogen funds, while the purchasing power of the Dutch evaporates before our eyes? To close the gap between what the population wants and what politics does is the most important task for us as a Chamber. Direct democracy in the form of a referendum is an absolute necessity. This is without prejudice to representative democracy, as opponents are arguing here this evening, and it will strengthen it. A government that can be corrected can rely on more confidence than a government that plans deaf to the noises of society without support. JA21 is quite convinced of that. Restoring trust is more necessary than ever. Many research shows a total loss of confidence of Dutch people in government and politics. I would like to hear from the proposers whether they share that. Researchers from various universities concluded last year after a large joint research that the Netherlands has become a low-confidence society. Only 30% of the Dutch still trust the national government. Large research by EenVandaag at the end of last year showed that only 26% of Dutch people trust politics. A low score confirmed by the CBS, which concluded two weeks ago that only one in three Dutch politicians still trusted, with which politicians are by far the lowest of all surveyed institutions. The reactions are always the same: politics is a self-converted bastion, engaged in your own gain and political games, deaf to ordinary people and, above all, very busy with themselves. The truth is harsh, but voters are increasingly looking at what we are doing with each other. I can't blame them for that. An absolute condition for restoring confidence in politics is a policy that people trust and allows them to decide on the direction of the country, not through false speech, but by allowing them to sit in the cockpit. A referendum is simply the best way to do this. It is not for nothing that all OECD countries have the greatest confidence in the government in Switzerland, the country in which referendums are almost as common as doing your shopping. Let us be clear: JA21 is an enthusiastic supporter of referendums. That does not mean that the proposal before us is perfect, far from it. The outcome threshold casts quite a shadow over this bill. To stop a law, the number of votes against must be at least as high as half of the total turnout of the last Lower House elections. In practice, this does indeed mean that the outcome of the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution would not have been valid. More than 4.7 million Dutch voted against the European Constitution, but given the turnout in the Dutch Parliament elections in 2003, 9.6 million Dutch people, that would not have been enough. In short, with that outcome threshold that the Christian Union has cycled into the bill, blocking a law becomes an almost unfeasible card. My question to Mrs Leijten: how does she view this? The very undesirable outcome threshold fits into a sad pattern. Because where referenda strengthen confidence in politics, the Dutch association with referenda has only damaged confidence in politics. Think of all the previously torpedoed attempts to introduce the corrective referendum, ignore the outcome of the referendum on the European Constitution, ignore the outcome of the association treaty with Ukraine, ignore the outcome of the referendum on the drag bill and, as a blow, repeal the Act of Consultative referendum by Minister Ollongren, because he would not have met the expectations, read: because citizens dared to have a wrong opinion. If the present legislative proposal succeeds, there is a high risk that the outcome threshold will cause new disappointments. It is therefore a heavy damper on a beautiful law. Mr. Chairman. The final conclusion of JA21: ultimately, the importance of including a corrective referendum in the Constitution is more important for the political group. JA21 will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u264	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then we'll go to Mrs. Koekkoek, Volt. Mr Baudet has indicated that his contribution is less than the 30 minutes given, namely 20 minutes. We'll do his contribution after dinner break. I call Mrs Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u265	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations on the proposal prepared with great care by the initiators. We agree that our democracy is inadequate. In order to tackle this, we must fundamentally change our democratic culture. The question then is how best to do that. Mr. Chairman. As the Council of State wrote in the opinion accompanying the legislative proposal, it remains necessary to pay attention to the proper functioning of the representative system in daily political and parliamentary practice. Especially in view of the changed environment in which the House of Representatives now functions. The Van der Staaij Committee has made a whole set of recommendations to improve our work here. And the Remkes committee has also made a start. When the Biesheuvel Committee wrote in 1985 that there were no objections to the introduction of a binding corrective referendum, it also stated that the political climate would lend itself to this. That's different now. The means by which positions are shared by society are also different from those in 1985. Mr. Chairman. There are several possibilities to increase citizens' direct contributions to democracy and restore confidence. I am thinking, for example, of a civil forum, it has already come across earlier today in which people come together to discuss important issues or legislative proposals. They can be assisted by experts, who highlight different sides of the matter, independent and funded. Given the early involvement of citizens in the policy process, this could increase the support for the policy, as well as the legitimacy for decision-making. And that in turn leads to greater confidence in politics, even more so than in a corrective referendum, because citizens are more involved and more actively. There is also room for nuance. Volt considers it particularly important that this form of deliberative democracy can lead to a breakthrough on a topic that is far polarized and where it seems that the Chamber cannot come up with workable solutions. This has happened, for example, in Ireland, where there has been a social debate on abortion legislation and gay marriage through a civil council that seemed impossible. The result was that legislation was introduced that previously seemed impossible. That is why I ask the initiator how she thinks about the complementary role of such a civil forum, prior to a corrective referendum or even instead of a binding referendum, stating that such a citizen's council should then have a binding outcome. This applies in particular to the possibility of reopening polarised issues which appear to have been politically deadly. The binding corrective referendum is a very sympathetic proposal. Provided that it is properly implemented, it is possible to find a solution to strengthen direct democracy, democratic involvement and, above all, confidence in democracy. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is critical of a number of aspects of the proposal and therefore has questions, in particular how we should view this instrument as an ultimatum remedium. How does the initiator view this? When are we at the point of last resort and on the basis of which the initiator concludes that the number of referendums that will be held does not have to determine the extent to which the instrument can contribute to restoring confidence in our democracy? In holding a binding corrective referendum, it is no longer by definition the political but the absolute majority blocking a proposal. In doing so, the voice of minorities may be less well heard than that of Parliament. The voice of the population is based on a homogeneous group, whereas democracy is supposed to protect vulnerable groups. That is why my question: how does the initiator view the position of vulnerable minorities in holding a binding corrective referendum? What steps should be taken, according to the initiator, to prevent the influence of disinformation, a strong lobby and other forms of influence on the outcome of referendums? I agree with the questions raised earlier on the impact of the threshold, in particular on confidence in democracy. Finally, Mr President. We still have questions and doubts about the proposal now before us. We see room for alternatives and are very curious about the answer. Thanks again to the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u266	Thank you very much. I suggest we suspend for dinner break now. We'll do 45 minutes. At 8:35 p.m., we'll move on. Then we start with the contribution of Mr Baudet and then the input of the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u267	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Leijten amending the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum. I give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u268	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the referendum, the only instrument that can really make democracy work. The only means you have as a population, to exercise real influence. History is well known. A convincing majority of the Dutch population, I am really talking about 60% to 70% of the population of the Netherlands, who have been wanting such a referendum for decades. More participation, real participation. It's in the DNA of our folk spirit, you might say. People in the country understand damn well that they are being taken by the formation game and by the EU gibberish. An overwhelming majority has therefore wanted more power and more grip for decades. We had such an instrument. We had such a referendum. Forum even emerged from it, when the Netherlands said no to the absurd, stupid association agreement with Ukraine and Rutte in April 2016. Then we took part in the elections in order to assert the influence of the people in The Hague. That's how Forum came into being. At the time, it would have given the cartel parties a great shock, that massive no from the Dutch people to the association agreement and the conflict that the EU wanted in that region, the consequences of which we are now seeing. As a first act, the new Rutte government immediately abolished the referendum. Through Ollongren, CDA, VVD, D66 and ChristenUnie immediately turned their backs on that referendum. It can still piss me off! I still think it is a shocking and astonishing brutality to first ignore the outcome of a referendum beam. What am I saying? For the second time to ignore, because we had not had a referendum ten years before, where an overwhelming majority said no to a plan they had here, namely a European constitution. And yes, that too has just been ignored. The European Constitution has also just come into being. So you're gonna ignore it and then you're gonna abolish the instrument. It is an insult and a humiliation of the Dutch people and Dutch democracy. And yet here again, as we are constantly doing in The Hague, for the umpteenth time we are having a largely symbolic discussion, because the referendum that is now before us is a pacifist referendum. This referendum is the ultimate judas area. It's the ultimate hypocrisy. It is pretending to be against immigration and European unification, but actually always voting in favour of it. It is campaigning for affordable energy prices, but then adopting a climate law. It's like giving the people a referendum, but basically turning their backs on the referendum. And I'm gonna explain that, but there's an interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u269	Yes, from Mr. Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u270	I think Mr Baudet is going to explain that the threshold is far too high. My group is also critical of this. Mr Baudet was very indignant about the abolition of the consultative referendum in the previous period. We also share this indignation. What's ahead now, we should see as follows. Now there is no referendum: no consultative referendum and no binding corrective referendum. With this proposal there will be a referendum in our Constitution. If enough people come up, for example, vote no and the outcome threshold is reached, it is also binding. Could Mr Baudet see it that way? That at least a referendum is better than no referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u271	I do not agree with that reasoning. I do not think that everything is better with a referendum, legislation or measures that you take socially than if you do not take measures. I think there are very serious objections to a bad referendum, but I am in dubio on that. I'll close my speech, too. I listen to the people. I am curious about the reaction of the author. I think there is a lot to say for no referendum and no gift that is actually toxic. I'd rather take that gift than just take it for two reasons. Firstly, I fear that it will mean an incredible demoralisation of the population. Secondly, it legitimizes the existing authority. Moreover, I have more objections than just those against the threshold of outcome. The existing authority can say anything, but you have a referendum, right? Go organize a referendum. Too bad, you didn't make it. I'm kidding. We're just gonna keep going. That's very dangerous. I really think we should think three times before we do this. At second reading or second recital, you can also say as a Chamber: we must leave ourselves in value, maintain our honour entirely and say that we are simply going to do it again. We thank you for this. As Vergilius says, "Non tali auxilio." I don't need this help. I don't want this present. Timeo dolis danaum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u272	Well, look at that. I think it is a good thing that Mr Baudet says: I am listening to this debate and I have not yet defined my position. Of course, that is what this debate is for. We're gonna listen to the petitioner later. In any case, I think that is very positive. Once again, I understand Mr Baudet's objections. If he really thinks it's a bad referendum, I understand he's critical of that. I think we could see it this way, too. We do not now have a referendum or a consultative referendum, which Mr Baudet is strongly in favour of. There'll be a referendum. This can also be binding if the electorate really tries very hard and if the outcome threshold is reached. In any case, it is still consultative if that threshold is not reached. Those who have a heavy opinion from the public, let us see it in the wind, have some explaining to do. Then Mr Baudet can say: they do not care. No, but at least we'll have a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u273	Yeah, but you might get a relatively high turnout once, but not the second time. The people will think: yes, bye! There's something else. That's what I mentioned in one of the interruptions. I thought that was with you. What's not in this law is how many signatures you need to get that referendum. I do not trust the people who do not really want that referendum and who make up the majority here. I really think that they are able to make that threshold so high that you can no longer distill a realistic referendum out of it. So I'm really worried about what they're gonna ship us off with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u274	I don't think anyone's getting shipped off here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u275	That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u276	Mr Baudet may be afraid of that. I'm trying to take away that fear. We're gonna fight together for a threshold that's reasonable. This is also included in the opinion of the Remkes Committee, for example. If we say no to this referendum now and we start from the outset, that is no guarantee in the same reasoning that the parties that Mr Baudet believes are not trustworthy will do the right thing. Let us give this referendum a chance and create a threshold for initiating that is not impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u277	A filing threshold, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u278	Yeah, exactly. Exactly. That's where we're at. That's what we're gonna do. Let us give this referendum a chance. At least we'll have a referendum. We also heard the opening of the Christian Union that there may be room for moving insight to lower the threshold of outcome that is now undesirablely high in the future. This must therefore be done by means of a legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u279	I don't know if I really have to respond anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u280	I don't think so. This was more of a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u281	Point tasks, so to speak. What is still something to ask the Minister in the first term, if we get the chance, is whether lowering the threshold of outcome is indeed an option. We're gonna take advantage of that opportunity. We're gonna take a break, and then we're gonna come up with a new bill without an outcome threshold. I would also like to look at the submission threshold and see if we can ask some questions about it. But I am indeed open to it, even though I am very leaning towards me, feeling dirty, haunted by this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u282	I understand, of course, Mr Baudet's concerns, but perhaps he is pushing things a little too far with his 'timeo Danaos et dona ferentes'. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u283	Sic notus elixes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u284	I hear Mr Bosma say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u285	We could just try and see how the ship continues. I would have done the sums on the back of my cigar box.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u286	Yes, but I have more objections than just the outcome threshold. Let me start with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u287	We're gonna listen to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u288	...and then we're gonna see if we should let this Trojan horse into town or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u289	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u290	Why is this a fake referendum? First of all, and no other speaker has spoken about this today, it is about the content of the referendum. It is very limited by the clauses in the legislative proposal before us. Under this new referendum law, you are not allowed to organise referendums, and you are not allowed to hold on to taxation or budgets, so things that involve money that citizens have to pay. No taxation without representation has been a fundamental principle of American democracy: when it comes to money, we want to be able to talk. That's exactly what was taken out of here. Nor should it be about the adoption of international conventions or the implementing laws in the Netherlands of international agreements. In fact, you have declared all the major issues that politics is about outside the order of the referendum. Almost everything is today, and to an increasing extent, it is becoming even worse, expression of international treaties and agreements. The Ukraine referendum, for example, would have been impossible under the law that is now before us. The referendum on the European Constitution would have been impossible under the law now before us, but also under the current climate law with one sentence from the government. All that needs to be done is the phrase 'this law is an elaboration of the Paris climate agreement' and boom, there can no longer be any reference to it. Immigration policy. The only thing a government that does not want a referendum to do is a first sentence: this immigration plan is an elaboration of the Marrakesh immigration pact. Then it can no longer be referred to. Then you won't be able to put it to the public as a referendum anymore. If the World Health Organisation comes up with a pandemic treaty in the near future, we know that it is in the process of being tabled for signature even soon, then the corona policy, corona laws, emergency laws, lockdowns and all of them, in one large movement, have come out of the reach of this referendum law. In my view, the essence of the political struggle throughout world history is the following. In the Roman Empire, the fundamental conflict was civis Romanus or civis mundi: am I a world citizen or am I a Roman? The same in medieval Europe: what were all these wars and major conflicts about? The Catholic, that is, the universal. Greek for universal is Catholic. The world or the patriotic Protestants, the nations. The formation of the national states in Europe is not conceivable without the Reformation, Protestantism, etc. Even now, the great conflict in the world is between globalists and nationalists. That is at the heart of the political conflict in the world: universalism versus particularism. So are you going for the Netherlands, are you going for the interests of the Dutch or, as Martin Bosma called them earlier today, the forgotten voice or the lost voice of the Dutch who have dropped out? Or are you going for the great reset, the open borders, the EU, a world government, you name it all? That is the essence of politics. That's what this is about. We still have a bit of left-wing division of the right, but it's really always about this question. And that is precisely the question that is already being ruled out in advance in this referendum law. There is no reference to that. You can't hold a referendum on that. The core of the political struggle has been removed from this instrument. That makes it an impotent instrument. It's castrated, sterilized, wing lamb. So after D66 had abolished the existing real referendum that we had, which could have been about international issues, which could have been about serious political issues, D66 is now coming up with a new, apparently binding version. But D66 has, as it were, put a cut in it: all meaningful political questions cannot be put to the people. I haven't heard that before today. I think I'm the only one who brought this in. Why is this referendum, apart from the threshold of outcome, which I am going to say a few things about, so important? Because we believe that the key political questions do not penetrate this Parliament and/or are not properly translated into general elections. There seems to be a structural problem in general Lower House elections, given all major issues over the past 50 years. The overwhelming majority of the population does not want mass immigration. Over the last 50 years, we've seen massive immigration. An overwhelming majority of the population did not want a euro coin. We have received a euro coin. An overwhelming majority of the population did not want an association agreement with Ukraine. However, we have received an association agreement with Ukraine. An overwhelming majority of the population wants to pay less for energy and not windmills in the backyard. If you presented the Climate Act to the people, 100%, well 99.9% would certainly vote against it in a referendum, and yet it is coming! So there is not only a gap in tone and in each other not reach. There's an ideological divide. We need to close that gap. That is the structural problem of parliamentary democracy. And just for solving that problem, they stuck a stick here. You cannot talk about everything that has an international dimension, and that is all. So you have an impotent instrument. You want to present something to the people and you can't. So apart from the outcome threshold, which I'm going to say about right now, you can't even come to copulation at all, because you're impotent. You've been sterilized. You can't get it going. Anyway, now there's going to be something about the outcome threshold, because that's also very important. For a valid vote against, apart from the fact that you can't raise really big themes, you need more than 50% of the total number of votes cast at the last Lower House elections that actually vote against. So more than 50% of the number of people who voted in the previous Lower House elections should actually vote against a valid result. That is absolute, but it is completely unfeasible. I've written it out as a math example, because I feel like it's not going down. In the Netherlands, about 13 million people are allowed to vote. On average, about 80% actually show up at Lower House elections. So that's about 10 million people to make it easy. If this government adopts a law against which the people want to vote in a referendum, then more than 50% of the people who have been elected in the Lower House should vote against it. So that's 5 million people. Statistical data from the United States, Switzerland and a number of other countries where referendums are part of democracy show that the average turnout at referenda is about 30%. In the Netherlands, that would be 4 million people coming to vote. This means, in this example, that 5 million out of 4 million people who are going to vote must vote against it. That is an anti-vote of 130% of the total turnout. So that's impossible! With a 40% turnout, which is extremely high for a referendum, you need 100% of the votes to reject a proposal. Take an exceptionally high turnout of 50%. That is very exceptional, not just for referenda. If you look at Switzerland or anywhere else, that is very exceptional. But even before general elections, for example for the Provincial States, the European Parliament or municipal councils, that is a very exceptionally high number of votes, not for the Lower House elections but for all other elections. 50% is a lot. With an exceptionally high turnout of 50%, 79% of people must vote against it. I mentioned it earlier: even in the referendum on the European Constitution, with an extremely high turnout, an exceptionally high turnout of 63% and more than 60% of the votes against, you would have had an invalid result according to the bill that is now before you. This referendum proposal, which is now before us, is completely ridiculous and absurd. It is an insulting mock reference, a blow to the face of the Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. Although I am in favour of referendums with everything in my body, and although I am deeply convinced that parliamentary democracy cannot function without a referendum, and so in our current state system we are living in a sham democracy, in a non-functioning democracy, I sincerely wonder whether we should vote in favour of this referendum law. Is this referendum not going to give the cartel a democratic excuse, a defence for the policy pursued, a stop-lap, an excuse, a pacifier? You can already hear the sanctimonious cartel pipos say, "We have a referendum, right?" And then, "Well, the turnout wasn't made, too bad!" So I sincerely doubt this. That's what characterizes FVD. That makes us fundamentally different from other pro-referendum parties at the moment. We want to avoid phony politics at all costs. We do not want symbolic discussions. We don't want to pretend. We do not want to pretend to be against the EU, when we are actually majoritying with everything. We do not want to pretend that we are against immigration or the climate plans, when we are trading in the formation for something else. We want fundamental politics. We don't want to play the game. And that's why I feel so dirty and used, so ambivalent and also a little bit tricked by this vicious cartel trick, this nepreferendum. So what are we gonna do? Are we going to vote in favour or against? Is a referendum, as Van Nispen of the SP said, better than no referendum? Or should we keep our feet stiff, should we, as it were, honor ourselves and say, "fuck your fake referendum, you crooks"? I have struggled a great deal with this and I have come to the conclusion that I am going to submit it to our Members. We are going to hold a binding member referendum, entirely in the tradition of the Forum and fully in line with the ideal that some people in this Chamber are right to, namely a referendum with real influence of the people. This weekend, all members of the Forum for Democracy will have the opportunity to vote on this bill, on what we should vote here in the Chamber. Should we vote for a referendum, rather than a referendum, or should we vote against it in principle because this referendum is a false referendum? Of course, unlike Mark Rutte, I will respect the wish and the outcome of that referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u291	What is the vote of Mr Baudet in that referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u292	That's a very good question. I think... No, I'm sure I'll vote against it. I am voting against in my own Members' referendum, but I accept the wishes of the majority of our Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u293	Mr. Faster, sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u294	Then what is the decisive factor for him as a member? Because in the first reading I stood here and heard: "Sure, sure. It doesn't matter. I'm going to vote in favour anyway." I am somewhat surprised by this turn of events.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u295	I understand the question. Why did we vote in favour before? The answer lies in the indication I gave for this referendum. I called it a "Judas" trick. Since that vote, the judassen have left our party and that means that we can take a much more fundamental, more serious and more substantive course. You have also seen the attitude of the Judasal Alliance in this matter. I choose another, but I leave the possibility to our members. I will support that, too. I also really understand the dilemma. I understand that it is not entirely black and white, but my own preference is to: rather no referendum than a nepreferendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u296	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u297	I'll leave the brother dispute for a while. It was Mr Baudet himself who said that in the debate at first reading: no matter what is finally adopted for amendments, I am going to vote in favour anyway. That's what he said on his own behalf, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u298	Yes, but Forum for Democracy is a democratic party. We have a lot of internal conversations and discussions. I also regularly follow the views of my colleagues within the party. I have already said something about this at the time. By the way, that turnout threshold was tabled as an amendment, and my debate contribution was primarily about the bill as such. But I know that you also asked me what I would do in that case. That was the line at the time, but I have come to a progressive understanding and greater freedom of substance, because the more compromise-oriented people have left the party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u299	I assume that Mr Baudet realizes that, given his popularity, he is influencing the vote by having already cast his vote, but that aside. Does Mr Baudet perhaps feel like a minimum rise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u300	At the FVD member referendum? No, I'm not in favour of a turnout threshold if that's the point of the question. The same view applies to general elections: if 20% comes up, then the result will also apply. The provincial state elections regularly do not exceed 40%, 50%. The European Parliament's elections even achieved less than 30%. Those elections are valid, and so is the FVD member referendum, and should, as far as I am concerned, also apply to a real referendum, a normal referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u301	Mr Baudet said that he was very much in favour of the referendum. But I'm truly sorry about what's going on here. I understand the objections that have been raised. At the time, the original proposal of Mr Van Raak did not contain the fact that, for example, treaties were non-referendable. That's what's been amended. The proposal did not contain an outcome threshold. That's what's been amended. That is not the fault of the initiators, and there is nothing to change at second reading. That was not our preference either. But we're dealing with it now. I understand that Mr Baudet wishes to distinguish or dismiss himself in the sense of 'I really want a referendum and I am not entirely satisfied, so I am against it', but does Mr Baudet realize what his attitude towards his members can mean? It is his right to present it to the grassroots, but if the grassroots follow him in his actually negative opinion, the outcome may be that the establishment of the Forum for Democracy in the Chamber could not lead to a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u302	Yes. I realize that Forum may have a decisive voice in this. That's why I take it very seriously. I think that the argument as I just gave it, both about the content of "what are you holding the referendum about?" If the outcome threshold is a conclusive argument. I think that everyone actually agrees with me that this makes the referendum lame and incredibly restrictive. You can't hold a referendum on big, serious issues. The turnout has to be so huge, and the outcome too, that you're never actually gonna make it in practice. Would we rather do that than say, "No, we'll keep our feet stiff; get the hell out of here with your fake referendum?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u303	Finally. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u304	There's a famous pianist. I think it was Petrucciani, a jazz pianist. He said, when he was three or four, he wanted to be a pianist. He wanted to learn how to play the piano. Then his parents gave him a little toy piano. With a hammer he smashed that thing and said: I want to learn to play the piano; I don't want to get a toy thrown at me. That's the dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u305	Thank you. You've been clear. We would also like to see the petitioner later. So I really want to ask you a short question. Then we'll go see Mrs Leijten. That's what I'm asking you, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u306	I agree with Mr Baudet that the proposal before us is not ideal, but this is a unique opportunity to introduce a referendum in the Netherlands. I am going to go into Mr Baudet's argument one more time, because he is trying to conduct the debate on substance here. Mr Baudet says: the elite or the cartel will soon be able to say, I do not know exactly what name he is using in this case: 'The people still have a referendum. Didn't they make it to the turnout? Too bad." But then we have a political fact, don't we? Then we can have the debate on that, can't we? Then Mr Baudet can say: 'The people have spoken out. The threshold just didn't make it. But you do not follow the wishes of the people here." That's a referendum, isn't it? In those cases, that is a political fact which could benefit Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u307	Thank you. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u308	So it can also greatly demoralize the population. It can also cripple us enormously as an opposition, because they can say, "Go do your best. You didn't make it, too bad." It can also be a signal to the population that they have even less confidence in politics. You're dealing with a massive breach of trust, a breach of integrity, between the administrators in this country and the population. Is this what we should be voting for as a step in the right direction? Is it a step in the right direction? Or is it a step in the wrong direction and makes us even more powerless, 'because there is already a referendum'? That's the big question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u309	You explained that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u310	We have also held a referendum among our members. I think it's a bit of a D66 solution. Because at some point, D66 considered lifting himself. Then Jan Terlouw said: we keep the party if a certain number of signatures are collected. I think it was 1,666. So it smells like D66. I also think that is populism, because I think that a politician should just stand for his cause. This shows once again that members' parties are simply not right. You shouldn't care about members. You're just an elected politician. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop the populism, I'd say. Is Mr Baudet also prepared in his internal referendum rage to present to the members of his party the possibility that they can opt for the referendum excluding that current strange threshold of outcome? If that threshold were to come out, would the members be in favour of it? That can make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u311	There's nothing to change now, is there? In my view, it is not in question that the Forum for Democracy is extremely in favour of referendums. We were founded on the basis of referendums. This is our most important and central political position. I am even convinced that we would probably not even be here as a party in the Chamber if there was just a normal Swiss-style referendum. Then we would express our ideas through referenda, and so on. That's a much better model. But here's the deal. It's just fake on all sides. It's really very powerless and bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u312	Clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u313	But I get the dilemma. So I'll let the members of FVD speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u314	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten, the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u315	Mr. Chairman. We can make history today. I have the honour to contribute to this, but of course I am not the first person here to talk about a referendum. That was Mr Van der Ham. He's happy to be my advisor here. That was also Mrs Halsema, Mr Kalma, Mr Dubbelboer and then, of course, Mr Van Raak. Ultimately, it is also tradition of state committees led by political heavyweights such as Biesheuvel and Remkes to talk about this. It's been 37 years. For 37 years now, the question has been raised as to whether we are giving the people the opportunity to enforce a binding corrective referendum, as a tool for the people to have a decision of the government reviewed by the people. A lot of parties are for that. There is a large majority in this Chamber for that. The Council of State and the Social Cultural Planning Office are also in favour. And also the Atlas report from the Netherlands, which we were allowed to receive in December, indicates that giving people a vote in a referendum in this way could restore confidence in democracy. That is why I find it an honor to be standing here: it is about democracy today. You shouldn't put that away as a fake or a fake. This is really about the choice that lies ahead, and you have to take that seriously. And I see movement. I see movement in the Christian Union, which says: okay, we think it is important that the entry threshold is in the Constitution, but we can always talk about the height further. The CDA says: I would very much like the confidence of the inhabitants of the Netherlands in the board to improve. It is a question of trust today. Because what did the Remkes State Commission say? I'll show you the final report "Low thresholds, high dikes" after all. That committee said in 2018: "Social reality shows that parliamentary democracy is not working equally well for everyone at the moment and that citizens for whom democracy is working less well are threatening to turn away from politics or are already out of business." Then you are also talking about unequal access to power, as Mr Sneller put it. I therefore see this here as the first step of that 1,000 miles by Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group, or as the running of that hink-step-jump marathon with each other. We've been talking about this for 37 years. There is almost no party that has not been in favour or opposed once. We are now on the threshold to do this. I don't think it's wise to be a little political about it. The VVD indicates that it feels urgent to get to work on involving members. That is exactly what the Remkes State Commission said; that was four years ago. In the meantime, a lot has happened. We've had the supplemental scandal. We have had the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, which has said: laws are not adequately tested in Parliament and problems arise. Something happened in the meantime. So I would also like to say to the VVD: look at today's societal relevance. I would like to take you back to your own experience with a referendum, which I would like to use to be optimistic about the proposal that is before us today, even though there is a dark cloud above it; we have heard that from everyone. As a 26-year-old student in Groningen, I joined the North SP team in 2005 to hold debates on this new EU Treaty, also known as the EU Constitution, throughout that North. The political leaders of our party, who would actually do the debates, could not keep up. There was so much debate in society and there were so many requests for supporters and opponents for those debates that they had made a team in the North. Together with a number of others I went to Drenthe, Friesland and Groningen. In the last two or three weeks I have been very often debating three times a day in packed rooms. The locations varied from sports halls to school aulas and from community centers to town halls. And the people were involved. There was a social debate. The results didn't surprise me, because I heard from the people there their doubt and that they didn't want it. And yes, the outcome greatly disappointed the political elite at that time. But what was done in the end, of course, with that result, disappointed the people again. This strengthens me in the belief that we need a binding corrective referendum. This referendum was rather flawed. It was a political initiative, albeit in good intentions, but the correct binding referendum is, of course, an instrument for the inhabitants of the country to correct the administration of the country. That's another instrument. Let's talk about the threshold, because it's true: 4.7 million people voted against then. That was a huge turnout of almost 65%. Except for 100,000 votes, the entry threshold currently in the referendum was not reached. That was the first referendum we organized. There was no experience in society. It was a referendum that was not held on an ordinary election day. The Remkes Committee advises that, in order to promote turnout. It was a referendum that lived, and it was seen as: we can now say something. I am convinced that if we get a request from a population group to organise a referendum, we will succeed if we do so in this way. It is an instrument in the hands of the inhabitants of the Netherlands to ask the people for their opinion on a decision taken by parliament. Is that hard to say yes or no to anything? I hear everybody saying that. I don't think so eventually. We make a lot of proposals on this every week, and even if the Council of State has said: do not do it. We also do it if there have been hearings in which experts say, "Don't do it." Then too, a majority vote for this very often, because it is an agreement in the coalition. Then it is very good that there is also an emergency brake for the people to say: but listen, we would like to present this to all of us. Then you give a voice to people who feel unheard and call themselves unrepresented. In order not to undermine the primacy of representative democracy, the State Committee proposes to establish the binding corrective referendum as an emergency brake. That should include appropriate thresholds. You have a direct vote, and so you don't vote for a party when you don't know whether that party is going to rule or become a member of the opposition, whether that party is being taken seriously and whether that party itself takes democracy seriously. You just don't know that in elections, but if the question "are you for or against this proposal?" Before that, your voice can weigh directly, even if you're in favour. Is this too coarse, asked the VVD. No, I think it's a very healthy drug. Last week I heard the Prime Minister say to a journalist's answers: we have a robust board style; then you can take criticism from the House of Representatives. Well, I thought that was a very wise remark from the Prime Minister. But then you can take criticism from your own people. After all, you ask them to vote in elections. Unfortunately, Mr Bisschop has already left the SGP and I say to the CDA: of course, you want better decision-making rather than bad people voting away. But I'd say one thing doesn't rule out the other. There was a question from Volt: what would I think of civil advice? I'm okay with trying, and I'm okay with drawing lots. But we do not have the guarantee that the more practically trained people there will be heard in the conversations that are being held there. I had a debate with the Minister of Economic Affairs the other day. Then I asked her whether a particular advisory committee was not very one-sided, politically-ideologically as well as in terms of where they live and what they deserve, and whether it was not just a nurse or a bus driver. It was about choices for our future economy. Can't a gardener talk about that or someone who works in security? Then she said to me: yes, that's right, Mrs Leijten, and we should actually be open to that, but if we replace someone with that nurse or the tram driver, then there is still no guarantee that they will be listened to. It takes a culture where you meet, listen to each other and take each other seriously. We don't always have that guarantee. But you shouldn't rule it out. Maybe that's why you shouldn't organize it. But I do not think that this is a substitute for being able and allowed to say as a population at the end of a journey: we want a consultation on this; we want a majority to decide whether this is a good idea. Then there's the turnout threshold. No, the outcome threshold. I have to say it right, because the First Chamber is reading along. The threshold in the current constitutional amendment was not envisaged at first reading as the proposer. Nor was it my predecessor who proposed it, but I am a democrat enough to defend this threshold, because the state committee also referred to a threshold of outcome. A referendum should not be a frivolous instrument in a representative democracy, but an addition. I think that's how you shape that, with an outcome threshold. I do regret that it is in the Constitution, but well, it is in it now, and I am defending it. "Do you organise cynicism?', asked Mrs Bromet. Yeah, you could say that, or are you confident that we can do this? The Constitutional referendum on the European Constitution had a different character and had no guarantee that the outcome would be listened to. In addition, 62% came up and had only 100,000 votes or the result would have been valid at the turnout threshold. So we were almost there. It's also in Remkes' report: referencing must be learned. So we need to get some experience with that. How do you organize that well? How do we organise this social discussion well? What conditions do you have to make of that? That is why we would like a lot of things to be included in an implementing law. You can change it faster than a constitution. But in the end, I think if you believe in democracy, you can certainly believe in a referendum. Apart from that: if the referendum does have a high turnout, but it does not reach the target of 50%, then it is a great council that we, as politicians, get from that population. Then, of course, even though it is not binding, we are free to declare it binding, or at least to have a solid debate about it with each other, or to listen to us: what has gone wrong here with the people? Mr Bosma said: Mrs Leijten walks there with the stroller and says 'look what a beautiful baby', but everyone sees that it is a miscarriage. Ugly in the diaper is nice in the veil, I'd like to say. To go through the parallel with that baby: yes, it still has to grow up, it has to grow up. We're all there. We are there to raise it, to correct it or not if it goes wrong for once. We are there to feed it well or let it die a silent death. Am I cynical about that? Well, I have fought many times in the Chamber with majorities and minorities to claim our right as a Chamber, to stand up for people in the population. And I believe we can. I really believe that. Then what do you do with a low turnout? You can take that turnout seriously, too. Mr Sneller asked: what effect should you draw in a successful referendum? I would really say that we should look at that in the implementing law. That also applies to the question of when to hold a referendum. Mr Bosma said: I always want it in regular elections. This is likely to increase turnout in national elections, but I do not know whether this is by definition the case in Provincial State elections or European elections. Maybe not. I think you should always look at that on the basis of the proposal. Is it urgent? Is there massive support? And if there is already a whole social debate going on in society, would you stop it for two years because then the elections will only be? I think you should be smart about that, so you can't say: it should always be withdrawn or kept immediately. You have to look at it at a time, I think. We need to discuss that carefully with the implementing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u316	A question from Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u317	Otherwise, it's going to be such a one-way street, isn't it, a debate like that? Let's talk about the outcome threshold first. Now the concept of "40%" will always lead its own life, while making binding referendums at local level possible. In The Hague, for example, the turnout in the municipal elections was 43%. With Mr Van der Graaf's other amendment, is it true that there is already a valid result at 22%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u318	Sure. Well, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u319	I think that, by adopting this bill, we will also make that kind of thing possible. It's important to remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u320	I am not saying that Mr Sneller is suggesting this for a low turnout at the national elections, which means referenda are more valid. That would be the most cynical outcome of all. That, of course, is not what we are trying to do. Nor do I think that is what this amendment was intended to do when it was tabled and adopted on the threshold for the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u321	It hadn't occurred to me yet! But thank you for this correction. My other question is a more fundamental question about something that cannot be dealt with by implementing legislation. Mrs Leijten spoke a number of times about the fact that the results of previous consultative referenda were not taken seriously. Now we pretend that a binding referendum is final: corrective, the last word. But, of course, that is not the case, because politics is continuing. An issue doesn't go away. The corona law and other laws were mentioned. The subject remains, so the discussion in Parliament will come back. It's gonna come up again. We cannot regulate in an implementing law when the population has been taken seriously. I would like to hear from Mrs Leijten a little more about how we can deal with this seriously without declaring ourselves to be politically silent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u322	The decision taken expired by means of a binding referendum in force. The reason for the vote is generally good research. There are extensive reports on this too. The suggestion that people would not be informed in a referendum is incorrect. They do; they have a motivated voice. We know what moves people. We have to weigh that in the future of such a trajectory. The bill that was there will be no more. Well, then the government together with the Chamber will have to see how we proceed on this subject. Suppose it's about privatising the water supply. Do you have to get on with the subject? Then you can also decide: we do not do that. If it is a new proposal for a form of childcare that is voted off, it seems to me that you are falling back on the old situation and then you are going to look at: what was our intention of improvement, why was that not addressed to a majority of the population and how can we make a better proposal that does have support? We're gonna have to do that every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u323	Then I think that when it comes to implementing legislation, when it comes to implementing it, we should have the discussion or, for example, citizens' forums can play a role in formalising it a little more. Evaluations have a limited value to give political direction. We should then be able to weigh the results seriously on the various parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u324	Citizen fora can of course be a part of it, but when a referendum succeeds, there has been a large, wide-ranging social debate. That's a rise-promoting thing. Then we know the arguments. I'm sure of it. We are all democrats enough to participate in the social debate, so that we hear what the pros and cons are and how heavy these arguments are weighed. In that you then have to make your own political decision. But, of course, the proposal that was before us is gone if it is rejected. If it goes some way, for example, that the water supply is not being privatised or that childcare is not being reformed in any way and is falling back on the old form, it will be part of the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u325	Let's talk about the outcome threshold. In my question to Mrs Leijten, I referred to confidence in democracy and government. We know this is precarious. This instrument is designed to increase that confidence. At the same time, that outcome threshold allows you to disappoint people. They look into the positions and take a deliberate vote after a campaign, but then they hear: sorry, not enough people have come. Mrs Leijten now says: yes, but then we are still here. I think that is a very strong argument. We have discussed this extensively in the group. This argument has not passed, but I find it very convincing. My question to Mrs Leijten is: does she have confidence in our Parliament? Of course, we always suffer from coalition and opposition and pre-arranged agreements. How does Mrs Leijten feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u326	We also suffer from political blundering: making very big stories, but then not contributing to the political work. I'm about to say a little bit more about that. I think that's something like the baby in the crib: we have to grow up in it, because we can of course say that in advance. We see a referendum coming. We don't think it's valid. Maybe we can say to each other: how do you deal with the results later? This is, of course, the same for parties who may have had a different view. For example, the SP Group says that it is following the supporters of a referendum here, but if there is a majority against it, then it will take over. That can be decided by any group for itself. In this way, we can show how we listen to what has become a consultative referendum. That will be different for every group. That too is part of this debate. So the good thing about this debate is that, if it is right, this is representative democracy. If we have had a social debate, we can say in advance to each other or to the people that, even if the result of the referendum is not likely to be the case, we will take it seriously or change our position. If the majority of the population thinks you have to be for or against something, then you can show that that way you represent the referendum and its outcome. So that is also a kind of correction for us as a parliament and for us as groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u327	Then we'll be back in parliament. That's where we were when we made that law. I said we were going to vote in favour. We have quite a stomachache about the amendment. We were against that, too. I would like to call for the referendums to be prevented. Because if you are a representative of the people and know what lives in society and what people do and do not want, then you have to take that into account in the very first decisions you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u328	I fully agree with Mrs Bromet. Mrs Van Dijk from the CDA actually said the same thing. We do not have to hold a referendum every time. If there is simply a good, representative way of decision-making that also meets the broad wish of society, then you will not get a request for a referendum. Maybe someone can ask for a referendum, but then there is not enough support for it. So I totally agree with that. Then we'll go to the law of execution. Today, of course, it is basically about putting it into the Constitution, but a number of things have been asked about the implementing law. Mr Baudet referred to the fact that he would in advance distrust the majority here, because we would not allow that to happen. I don't have much confidence in that. When we are going to hold a referendum, we must organize it seriously. The defense at the moment is that we also seem wise to make agreements, for example, on how we deal with possible subsidies for the front and the counter camp. One of the lessons of the previous referenda is, of course, that this has not always gone well. I told you, you have to learn to refer. It is not my jargon, but it comes from this fine final report by the State Committee on Parliamentary System. I think we should also learn to have a good social debate again in order to be convinced sometimes. And then we come to the point of manipulation and disinformation. Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA asked for that and Mrs Koekkoek of Volt. Of course, disinformation is not just about populists. I also sometimes see something coming from the government that I think is: well, that is perhaps very rosy proposed. Let me give you an example of the Youth Act. The goal was to reduce the number of removals. Did you make it? The difference between will and execution or outcome is very large. But I think you should make some very good arrangements about that. As a society, we have to learn to talk about it again. I have said it before in the debate: you are also being put away very quickly. You can't be trusted or you're a conspiracy thinker. Guys, if you don't listen to each other that way, we won't get anywhere. Mrs Van Dijk called it listening democracy. It is not only listening, but of course it is also hearing and organizing. I firmly believe that referendums can also organise this social and political debate in society. That's something we may need to miss. We all see that gorges, as it is called today, are vastly deepened. People from different courses no longer meet, not at the supermarket, not at the association, not near. Of course, it would be very nice if a referendum were to be a means of listening to each other again. In that it is up to all of us to say, if we are talking about political blimps as if we were not a democracy, it is quite something, I think it is quite something that is said here that it is a pacifier or a judas region. This does not do justice to the initiators of this bill and the way in which we defended it in the first round, including in the First Chamber, and now again. It does not do justice to the value of parliament and to the value of a fundamental right as it is said: they are a bunch of half-threads, a bunch of pimps. Then you do exactly what the erosion of democracy is: no trust in democracy and in the strength of a common decision, even if you disagree. Then you're in the process of destruction and then you're knocking on the chest of your own right. That's okay, everybody has freedom of speech, but you don't contribute to solving serious issues with each other. We all want things to happen as political parties. We all have spearheads. There's gotta be room for everything. But by saying that someone who's defending a bill, you're delivering a judas trick, you're closing the door so hard that I'm really wondering, why are you still here, why are you still in it? Moreover, we can also suggest that the honourable Member who said this is also very often not participating. Mr President, I can already conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u329	I'll take a look at Mrs. Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u330	He's not here either, is he? He's just gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u331	Go ahead, Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u332	In any case, I would like to say: well put. My question is about the agreements we make on campaigning. Do I have to think about the agreements we have as political parties on campaigning and on what is and is not allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u333	Well, I think we're going to have a whole debate on that at the Political Parties Act. I'm looking at the minister with a slanted eye. That is the kind of agreement that needs to be made. I don't think there's much to agree on right now. I think we should talk seriously about how you deal with certain forms of disinformation. That is not only a political debate, but also a social debate. Well, it seems to me that's what you need to talk about. If we make rules for regular elections, I think it would be very logical to join them as closely as possible for a referendum. I am also thinking of something like: who provides the neutral information about what is ahead. If we know that there is a trust gap, Mrs Bromet pointed that out, but also Mr Eerdmans of JA21, you can of course see that you can also ask yourself whether you should let the government put that on government. Or are you saying, let's do that by an independent scientific institute. A number of scientists then give scientific, content, popularized for everyone to hear what is ahead. Then I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. The State Committee on Parliamentary System was clear and I quote: "The State Committee strongly calls on the constitutionalist to take seriously both the nature and the extent of the social division and the dangers that could threaten our democratic rule of law within and outside the political system. There are two red wires in the final report. The need to improve the representation of content and the need to strengthen the resilience of the democratic rule of law. They leave nothing to be desired for clarity. Insight is enough, though thinking never stops. Time is much less." I would like to give this to Mrs Van Dijk, for example. I saw room for thought with Mrs. Van Dijk. The State Commission said in 2018 that there is actually no time to lose when it comes to representation and the democratic rule of law. We've been four years. I would like to suggest to Mrs Van Dijk, the CDA, whether we have perhaps not seen too much of this erosion of the democratic rule of law from all sides over the last four years. Because we saw that the elections had a low turnout, because we had the Van Dam Committee and the Bosman Commission, because we had a outgoing government because of a huge scandal, of which people have still not been helped. Could the introduction of a binding corrective referendum as an instrument in the hands of the people to present a decision of power to the people not be a good way to show that confidence is being given to the people: you can also judge our work? If you really want to share power, I think we're just winning, I'll tell Mrs. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u334	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u335	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u336	I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u337	I very much appreciate Mrs Leijten's work. I liked her argument. I followed it. You seemed to imply that I was no longer present. I heard it, and that's why I ran right in. I had to go to the member's restaurant, where I heard about it. You have a different qualification of this law. That's fine, of course. We disagree on the substance of the matter. I don't have to repeat my story here, because I already told you. I appreciate what you're saying, and I just wanted to respond to your remark of "he's not here either" or something similar to that. I wasn't in the room, but I heard your story. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u338	I would like to say to Mr Baudet that I have also used other qualifications about his contribution. I do not think it is right to say to an initiator of the amendment to the Constitution that it was a judas area, that you then do democratic hollowing, and that sometimes you have to listen to others and not knock yourself on the chest, because you then cooperate in the destruction. Mr Baudet did not hear that, and I regret that. Mr Baudet is rolling his eyes again and will not take it all seriously; it will all be. My point is that because of this contribution and also because of the flip-flop he is opposed to referenda, it is precisely because of this that he greatly undermines trust in democracy and confidence in representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u339	Yeah, well, I actually wanted to avoid this point. I told you, we have different qualifications from the law. In this way, I have learned from Mr Roelof......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Indeed, I think it is a judas area, this amended constitutional amendment. I loved the original idea. I think it's a castrated referendum. We disagree on that, I tried to indicate. I've had a lot of time, so I don't necessarily have to take back the stage here and I wanted to do it respectfully. But since you're taking a swing at me again, I'm gonna say something back. I just wanted to emphasise that I have a great deal of appreciation for you and the people behind you, and for all kinds of people in society who are fighting for the referendum. I support that. Personally, I made a different assessment based on this version. I'm still putting it to our members, so my final vote is still open. I will not announce this until Tuesday, because then the vote will take place. In the end, we've drawn different conclusions. You would rather have a flawed referendum than not a referendum, and I would prefer to say no in principle, but we will see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u340	You have said enough about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u341	Mr Baudet contradicts himself so much in the endless sentences that it is almost no longer logical to answer Baudet. He appreciates that we're doing this, but it's still a judas trick. That's really weird. That's really weird human handling at all, but it's also just weird. Then he says: I am very much in favour of referenda, but this is so flawed that I am not in favour of it. I have just said in the defense, when you did not have the decency to listen here and exchange views with me, that we can of course listen to the results in a referendum that is not immediately binding and that we can have a debate on this. We can discuss in advance whether or not we take it seriously. It is important for the social debate to take place, in which there is an exchange of political ideas. That's the emancipating of our society, that people meet again. And Mr Baudet is throwing it out of here. He said in reply to Mr Van Nispen that he would approach it openly. Well, it wasn't, because it was already thrown away. Mr Baudet admitted that later. I think that's destructive politics. This is a two-thirds majority for something we have been doing for 37 years. 37 years ago, the Biesheuvel State Commission said: this is good. And then you would after 37 years, because Forum for Democracy believes that all issues are international... That's not true. We have a great deal of legislation here that deals with the wallet of people, the access of all kinds of facilities in the Netherlands, the welfare state or the participatory society. None of that has anything to do with all your international insights. We give a huge instrument to people, and yet you stand at the threshold of the breakthrough to destroy it on two arguments. I call that political blundering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u342	Once again, I regret that Mrs Leijten makes it so personal and apparently feels so personally attacked. With my complimentary remark I meant to say that I very much support the principle that she is pursuing. It's a well-known fact. We are the referendum party of the Netherlands. But it is a very real and serious dilemma that we all know in our lives. I'd rather have something that actually sucks, let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u343	Well, well, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u344	...or would I rather fight for the better? That's a huge dilemma. In love as well: you have so many people who meet someone and find that quite a nice person, but still wait for the one to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u345	I think it's sufficiently crystallized. I now hear a lot of repetitions and other qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u346	But you know, Mr President, Mr Baudet is now pretending to be a game, waiting for the better. We're building a house now, and it's not finished yet. We're gonna have to set it up. But at least we have a house. And that's a lot better than being homeless. Mr Baudet pretends that all this is worthless and that you just do it again. He makes a political quickie because he can play himself in the spotlight again. He casts confidence in democracy and also the possibility of a referendum. That is very cynical, when he says that he is the main advocate of a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u348	I'll stop talking about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u349	I'm sorry, but I think I'm allowed to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u350	No, it's gonna be a repeat now. I've given you plenty of space to exchange things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u351	This is a personal...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u352	You weren't even in the room when I originally said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u353	No, I'm really gonna stop this right now. This is not a personal fact. This is a debate. I also ask Mrs Leijten. No. I'll keep the order here. There's been a lot of talk. I have given you every opportunity over and over again. It is now time to give the floor to the Minister. It is also up to the Commission to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u354	Can I have one more sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u355	No, Mr. Baudet. No is no. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u356	Thank you, Mr President. It's a lot of work. Making an own-initiative proposal is an enormous amount of work. The members of this Chamber know that, too. If you also make a Constitutional proposal, then it is twice as much work, because you not only have a first round, but also a second round along the Second and Upper Chambers. Although I am here today as a consultant, as a minister, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Leijten, but also the steadfast team behind her: Mrs Temmink, Mr Van der Ham and Mr Van Raak. Good to see Mr Van Raak again in the Chamber. It is indeed a very long history that precedes the correct binding referendum. I had it searched a little further back in time. It was Mr Troelstra who first spoke about a corrective referendum in 1903. This shows that it is now a centuries-long discussion. Mr. Chairman. Today I'm here as a neutral advisor. The cabinet had a neutral position in the previous discussion of this bill. That is also the case with this treatment. However, a number of questions have been asked to me. A number of Members asked how we could best organise such a referendum. Do we have to do this during the elections, for example, because then the turnout is highest? Or should we look at other variants? As Mrs Leijten pointed out, this is an important issue to discuss in implementing legislation. If this proposal is discussed further, we can see how best to deal with referendum proposals. In addition, you have different elements to weigh. On the one hand, it is in line with regular elections, which can increase turnout. On the other hand, you may sometimes wonder if it is useful to wait two years before you can vote on a bill, because the social debate is taking place at that time. It's up to the Court to make that assessment. I would also like to point out that, as an adviser to the cabinet, I am also standing here saying that there are considerable costs involved in organising a referendum. So when dealing with implementing legislation, you must also ensure that we have a budget for it. Sometimes it's so practical, but I have to report it. Mr. Chairman. A very good question is what exactly are the consequences of such a binding result of a correct referendum. There are two possible outcomes and they are now widely shared in the Chamber. If the outcome threshold is not reached, the government can endorse the proposal. If the outcome threshold is achieved and there is a majority plus one, as several members indicated, then the bill will automatically lapse. The initiator also indicated that. It means that there is no legislative proposal at the time. Politics is then again called upon to discuss the follow-up with each other. In this context, there has also been a lot of exchange of views on the outcome threshold. As an advisor, I can state that this has taken on board the opinion of the Council of State in the amendment. The Chamber voted in wisdom on this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked how many requests for binding referendums I had from a local level. The province of Limburg informed my predecessor of this in 2020. We have looked very quickly to see if there have been any other requests in the meantime. We haven't been able to find it. The province of Limburg has been a driver of this from years ago. Mr. Chairman. There were also a number of questions about the existing forms of civic participation and deliberative democracy. As in this Chamber, there are many other forms of civic participation, at national and decentralised level. I am indeed working on a number of issues: a legislative proposal on challenge law and a legislative proposal on strengthening participation at a decentralised level. Furthermore, we are working to see how we can better involve young people in politics, also in connection with the motion of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question: can you change the bill at the moment? No, in a second reading, you can't change the bill. In the second reading you can split up a legislative proposal, but then the two legislative proposals should be able to be dealt with independently. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u357	I thought I was the only one who asked the Minister an explicit question. It won't be answered. I'll repeat it for you. My question was about the fact that the turnout threshold actually brings an implementing decision into the Constitution. That's highly unusual. The Constitution simply states that there is a right to vote. The elaboration takes place in laws, AMvB's, et cetera. My question was whether the Minister does not find it strange that an implementing decision should now, as it were, be incorporated into the Constitution. Is that not a dilution of what a Constitution should stand for, namely principles and principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u358	As an advisor, I can state that the Council of State has advised to include the outcome threshold in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u359	That's nice and interesting, but I'm asking what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u360	I'm standing here as a neutral advisor. So I'm quoting the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u361	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the initiators. Let me take a look at Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u362	This is a debate on a very fundamental subject. I would suggest that everything that has now been debated and everything that has been said should be settled. With regard to the clock, too, I would like to propose that the second term be organised at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u363	Let me look at my fellow Members to see if there is sufficient support for this. That's the case. That at least brings us to the end of this debate. We will plan the second term in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-11.u364	First of all, of course, I would like to thank Mrs Leijten as the initiator. Such an initiative law is always an enormous amount of work and is always very exciting, I can imagine. That certainly applies to this subject. I wish her every success in waiting for the second term. I thank the Minister as an advisor. Of course, I would also like to thank her advisers in trade union K: Mr Boris van der Ham, Mr Ronald van Raak and the support. I would like to thank the spokesmen and the people in the public gallery who, in my opinion, followed the whole debate and those who may have followed the debate at another time.
