ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport and the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. I would, of course, like to welcome the Members of Parliament, as well as the people who are following the debate in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. I've just been in touch with some members about the number of interruptions. I am happy not to limit the number of interruptions, but I would like to make one condition, namely that the interruptions are short and concise. There are very many speakers. You also have a first and a second term for everything you want to say, so it is really about questions and brief comments. Then we can see how far it goes. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A shady 100 million-dollar deal against official advice for improper mouth caps. In itself that is bad, but it is not about the content of this deal or Mr Van Lienden's behaviour today. That comes after the Deloitte report. However, it concerns the role of the cabinet in this deal and the question whether the minister has been honest. It is about what we as a society and as a Lower House can expect: a reliable cabinet, honest ministers and mistakes that are not obscured. It seems like the Wob, the Volkskrant and apps were never the result of this deal if the minister hadn't personally interfered in it. Texts like "I hope it works," a request to hug Sywert and "I have a day job to do" also show that it was more than just passing messages. As a former official, I know how it works. If you get this kind of text from your minister, you've got it covered. While the top man of the Landelijk Consortium earlier indicated that he didn't want to make a deal and said that it wasn't necessary, a net-stammelled company nevertheless pulled in the biggest order of the corona crisis. That doesn't seem like a coincidence. The first question to Minister Helder is therefore whether or not they agree that this deal has only come about through the active involvement of Minister De Jonge. The cabinet didn't want to give a factual account of an ongoing investigation. Who asked for what reason to share the apps with the Chamber? When did Minister Helder know about Minister De Jonge's involvement? I'd like a response from Minister Helder. App traffic shows that Minister De Jonge has indeed been involved in the conclusion of the deal. Answers to parliamentary questions and on camera have been repeatedly denied. Last week, the Minister said that the reports in the Volkskrant were incorrect, or at least did not reflect the real reality, whereas it turns out to be true. And he was also aware of the content of the deal, namely on April 25, before the contract was signed. My question to Minister De Jonge is therefore why he did not simply give a fair answer to that question about his involvement. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to play a semantic word game on what exactly the term "involvement" means? Why was he so keen on this deal? Public pressure, or did he have any other reasons? Does Minister De Jonge recognise that he has been decisive in the conclusion of this deal? Mr. Chairman. This behaviour of not being honest affects all of us. It's ugly for all of us. It touches the confidence in the cabinet and it touches the confidence in politics. That's why I hate that we're standing here today. At his farewell interview, Minister De Jonge expressed hope and said, I quote, "a political culture of not feeding distrust, but based on trust." What a beautiful wish, and a fair wish! Important also in a politically fragmented landscape, where conspiracies are gaining ground. But that raises the question: how can we proceed with this minister? Will anything really change after this debate if we give this minister the confidence? Will it be business as usual, or will the new political culture actually take place that has been promised to us as a society and as a House of Representatives for so long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have tabled several motions of censure over the last two years because of the abuse of power, the disproportionate measures, the lack of transparency and the unimaginable collateral damage that has been caused. Entrepreneurs were driven to despair by a lockdown in which the retail trade, catering, hairdressers, gyms and other non-essential companies had to close. The report revealing that a lockdown would cost 520,000 healthy years of life was withheld. A senseless curfew was set. Schools were closed and young people were traumatized. Unvaccinated people were blamed for the pandemic and an indirect vaccination obligation was imposed. Children were caused unnecessary medical actions by the misleading dance-with-Janssen campaign. Questions about side effects of the corona vaccines were called "a threat to public health." The registration of coronados was a farce, and the corona coverage was outright state propaganda. More than ten fundamental rights were violated and EUR 5.1 billion disappeared. Wob legislation was suspended for a year and a half, and now it's doing it again. The Wob, fantastic! RIVM advice was manipulated because we had sent our protective equipment to China, which meant that many people in nursing homes died unneeded. Politicians were followed by the NCTV and we were obliged to wear sickening and non-working mouth caps because it would have a behavioral effect. Yes, Mr. Chairman. The masks. There was a failure to buy in sufficient protective equipment and a CDA friend without experience with tools made a huge profit from our tax money. Competition was eliminated, the tender procedure was put aside, private mail was used against the rules and the minister denied that he was interfering with this corrupt deal, and now he turns out to be the driving force behind this mega-deal. So he lied about this. Officials warned that the deal was unnecessary, that Van Lienden did not pass through the regular selection process, that the quality was poor and that there was self-serving. It was deleted from the forensic accountant's report. Why exactly, and by whom? Mr. Chairman. De Jonge's actions are terrifying. Trust's gone. I was right a year and a half ago when I tried to stop Hugo the Young and now I get right. I will table a motion of censure on behalf of BVNL in the second term, in the interest of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On February 10, 2020, our entire stock of personal protective equipment was sold to China. Our storage sheds were squeezed out like tubes of toothpaste. During carnival, shortly after, Corona exploded in our country. A few days later, corona patients flooded our hospitals in the south, followed by the nursing homes. There was a panic. We ran out of personal protective equipment. The hospitals got some, but the nursing homes, neighborhood care and home care had checked. In that panic, good people have done very good things and bad people have done very bad things. The independent National Consortium Tools were given the task of importing and distributing protective equipment. Van Lienden, Damme and Van Gestel, with their aid forces Alliance, didn't want them to have anything. There were already 75 million mouth caps inside on 14 April, there were enough in order, there were doubts about the security of supply of the three and there were offers from parties considered reliable. So it was no for Sywert from the CDA. And then it all goes to hell. We are witnessing a strong piece of CDA nepotism. It starts with Hugo de Jonge, who says in the Parliamentary debate of 15 April 2020 that there is still global scarcity and thus unjustly feeds the panic. CDA'er De Jonge, his personal assistant CDA'er Van den Brink and secretary-general of VWS CDA'er Van den Dungen arranges for CDA'er Van Lienden to come back into the picture, after which he drags in a mega-deal for 40 million mouth caps. But then we won't be there with the CDA. When CDA'er Pieter Omtzigt together with CDA'er Joba van den Berg put questions to the Chamber on 20 April. They wanted to ensure that there was also a VAT exemption for parties importing outside the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries. Of course, they meant CDA's Van Lienden. Even after the deal, De Jonge keeps actively interfering. On 29 April he wants to know from Van Rijn why only 40 million mouth caps were ordered and not 120 million. Back then CDA member Pieter Omtzigt also helps. After an hour-long visit to CDA'er Van Lienden on 24 April, he left Van Lienden's plan for even more mouth caps in Rutte's Tower a few days later. CDAs make arrangements for each other. Nepotism is what it's called. It's wrong. All other people who called or emailed MPs or ministers because they could arrange masks were referred and many heard nothing anymore, but CDA's Van Lienden did. In total, more than 100 million euros of taxpayers' money is lost and CDA member Van Lienden collects 9 million euros. CDA's Van Lienden and his associates are crooks. We need to get that money back. How are we doing with that, I'll ask the Minister. And that's not all. Since May 2020, corona leading role player Hugo de Jonge has been mailing via his private account. He no longer wants to receive confidential documents via e-mail, but has to be printed in the bag. Officials express their concerns about the parliamentary historiography and undermining of the Public Administration Act. It is unbelievable that all-knowing Hugo de Jonge does not know that this action is strongly discouraged. Only now, two years later, he quit. Not only did this undermine the Public Administration Act, but also the data used for the parliamentary committee of inquiry, the investigations of the Safety Research Council and Deloitte were obscured. This is unforgivable. The statement that the e-mails, if only Hugo de Jonge e-mailed with the private mail, have been secured, is debatable. Just if his excuse is true, the question is how many more people went to e-mail with their private account because they had trouble logging in. My question to Minister Helder is whether Minister Hugo de Jonge has already handed in all his devices and passwords from his private accounts, so that as much data as possible can be secured. After all, they belong to the Wob. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to apologize to Minister De Jonge. I haven't seen it yet, but well, you know that apology isn't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The justified anger about the Sywert deal is still not over. This anger, of course, is directed first and foremost at Sywert and his friends themselves, who would provide non-profit-making mouth covers for our care heroes, but who ultimately made some EUR 20 million profit over the back of caregivers, patients' backs and over the back of all those people and companies who have voluntarily worked with them. Mr. Chairman. I remember those debates we had in the spring of 2020. A lot of people got infected. Hospitals got overcrowded and in the nursing homes there was a disaster. In the meantime, we noticed that a lot of carers had to do their job without the necessary protection. They became infected themselves or contributed to the spread of the virus. From the very first debate we had here on 5 March 2020, the SP has increased the pressure to purchase as many protective equipment as possible. The fact that not all normal rules for good purchasing have always been followed is not surprising, as far as we are concerned. We understand that some mistakes have been made in this wild-west situation. But what we do not understand is the way three men have been able to enrich themselves as a result of a deal the ministry made with them. I would like to know from Minister Helder whether she can respond to the agreements made by her predecessor Van Rijn. Did he know that Sywert and his friends would make millions on this deal? Why did the Ministry agree to a deal with an e.g. instead of the foundation that was founded? Why did we agree to this millions of dollars? Mr. Chairman. We also have no understanding for rulers who are not telling the truth. Last year Minister De Jonge said in an interview with RTL: "No, of course I wasn't involved in that deal. I haven't been involved in that appointment." Now we know this isn't right. Yes, the flown in PvdA Minister Van Rijn did the talks with Sywert, but it was indeed Minister De Jonge who directed several times on the contact and making appointments with Sywert and his friends. The SP wants to know from the minister why he hasn't just been honest from the start. Why did he lie to journalists? Why did he go to court to delay Wob requests as long as possible? Why didn't he immediately say: yes, I was aware of that deal and yes, like the rest of the Netherlands, I am very angry about how they could have enriched themselves so much? Or is that the other side? Do these ministers think that there was not much wrong with this deal at all? Do they not think the outcome is so good, but do they think it all went according to the rules? The SP also wants to know how Minister De Jonge feels about his role in this case, about lying to journalists, about frustrating the Wob and about stopping the truth until there is no other way. What does this say about his working methods and the trust that people can have in them? What good is a minister who makes a deal for imaging, then pulls his hands off that deal when it gets so ugly in the imagery? Then, Chairman, let's finish. The use of private mail by cabinet members should now stop as soon as possible as far as the SP is concerned. We will also present a proposal for this this afternoon. It is not just about the protection of data, but also about the possibility of reconstructions when the parliamentary survey is to be carried out and the investigations that are already under way at the Security Research Council. We know from the OVV that they request all relevant information in investigations. Persons, directors, who participate in the investigation, must also fully participate in these investigations in accordance with Article 40 of the National Security Research Council Act. My question to Minister De Jonge is whether he has informed the OVV in conversations or in writing that there is also information and correspondence on his private accounts. Has the OVV also been able to do research in this mailbox in order to retrieve and view all relevant documents? We must be sure, even at the end of this day, that important investigations are not frustrated by rulers against the law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here feeling a little uncomfortable. Today's debate denies the terrible war that is taking place in Ukraine, where millions of people are fleeing. It also contrasts with many Dutch people and the feeling that their future is uncertain or against the entrepreneurs affected by the corona crisis and everything, but also everything, have had to give to survive and where the question is: for how long? For many Dutch people it is only a question of whether they can afford their food. There are even children who do their homework by candlelight and with the coat, because their parents cannot pay the energy bill. Mr. Chairman. In that light, we are talking here today instead of about such issues, about the mouth cap deal. And yet it is crucial that we do this with each other here: talk about the role of the minister. Because this debate is not about Sywert van Lienden. This debate is not about how to capture 100 million euros for worthless mouth caps, because you have direct access to the minister. This debate is not about Hugo de Jonge either. Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the role of parliament and the integrity of public administration. It is about Parliament's right of information, the foundation of Parliament's control over the government, about Article 68 of our Constitution. We can't do that a little bit. We can't be a little bit integrity. It would adorn the minister if he showed courage and leadership. It would be a credit to him if he stood up, apologized to Parliament and said out loud: I did not do that well; I harmed the public administration and the Chamber wrongly, prematurely and incompletely informed. Then there is something to save from that integrity and the credibility of Parliament. That credibility has had a hard time over the last ten years. After all, this Parliament allowed the Prime Minister to lie three times on 1 April last year. We've fallen through a lower limit. Today we have the opportunity to fix that. Because what we do in The Hague has a direct impact on society. We can see those debris. We experience distrust in people. We feel the inconvenience in the streets when we are approached and we see that more and more citizens are dropping out. More and more Dutch people don't understand what the rules are here in The Hague. Fewer and fewer Dutch people are going to vote. This is losing value to our democracy. We've seen where that could lead. We have seen how painfully the non-intelligence has turned out for tens of thousands of citizens in the premium crime. You can't really blame this minister. He could say, "If Rutte can lie, can't I? Informing Parliament wrongly, improperly and immemorially, we have done for years." Read Van Dam's report Unfamiliar injustice. It's literally in there. And look, he'll say, Sigrid, Mark, Wopke: they're all there. Of course, it's all about imaging. Of course, that was also crystal clear in the report. Imaging and its own position were more important than acting with integrity and standing up for citizens. We're on a slippery slope. Then we should not leave crocodile tears if only 40% of the people vote and only one in ten people vote in some neighbourhoods. We should not be surprised if our officials no longer follow the protocols, because the ministers do not either. Then we're done. Then we can bury our integrity and our dignity. We no longer need to talk about transparency and a new culture of governance. That's a dead letter. Mr President, I will conclude. It is poignant that the Minister did not want to comply with the judge's ruling. In fact, he paid tax money, periodic penalty payments, not to be transparent. He is the embodiment of the fight against openness. Then we get what we have seen in recent years and what this cabinet is known for: then comes the phase of word games, of twisting and sliding. Let's not do that today. Let us have a worthy debate with the aim of building the foundations of our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. I see that some parties are using this debate as a kind of evaluation of the overall corona policy, or to look back on everything that has not gone well with buying mouth caps. I cannot do that at the moment and this debate is not intended to do so either. This debate is about something else, perhaps something bigger. It's about our democracy. A year ago we were in this room for the 1 April debate. Unfortunately, it wasn't a joke. We had a debate about how we were all going to do things differently. There was a prime minister fighting for his political life. We'd all do better. We were going to give information to journalists and to the House of Representatives if they asked for it. And where are we now? Article 68 of the Constitution states that information must be provided to the Chamber at all times, unless this cannot be done in the interests of the State. Last week we asked for information. Until two times this information has been refused by Minister Helder. I would like to thank the cabinet for having provided this information yesterday. However, it leaves a question open: why couldn't this information be delivered last week and this week? Why could the interest of the State be called upon this week and why not last week? In the letter sent by Minister Helder, Minister De Jonge's letter is sent along with the request to forward this information. Who has actually decided that this information can now go to the House of Representatives? Mr. Chairman. We have to deal with it, not only the opposition here, but the whole parliament, with a diseased administrative culture. A governance culture in which memos about the dividend tax can be withheld for months and then suddenly come up, after which a ruler says: yes, sorry, I really should have done it all differently; I should have done it earlier, sorry. A governance culture in which information about the surcharge scandal has been withheld for years. For years, with all the consequences of that. A culture of governance in which facts are not shared with the Chamber, unless the minister who is the subject of the facts himself says that it is a good thing that this information can be shared. Mr. Chairman. I am looking here at a cabinet that seems to be particularly concerned about its own status, opinion polls and angry Twitter messages. My message today is: get to work. Just answer the Chamber and journalists honestly when they ask questions so that we can all deal with the real problems of our time. In concrete terms, I have a number of questions for the cabinet. Minister De Jonge can say "sorry, I should have informed the Chamber sooner and better," but what exactly does he mean by that? What I see happening here is the Rutte method. This is how Rutte has been getting away with all kinds of bullshit in this Parliament for ten years. Can the Minister explain in this debate why, on 25 April 2021, he was given official details of this deal through the app, and how can he say that he is not involved in any way in the running of the Council of Ministers on 17 May of the same year? Does he still insist that he was not involved in these deals, while the reports we have seen show that this was indeed the case? Parliamentary questions from June 2021 state that he has passed the information on to Minister Van Rijn each time. If my group reads that, she thinks: that is commendable, because it is the minister's job to send out signals. And now it turns out he's been encouraging civil servants to go to work. Mr President, I will conclude. My point here is not that it would be all wrong what happened here and that it is not good. I can't judge that right now, because I don't have all the facts. But what I expect from directors, every moment, is that they share information fairly with the House of Representatives and with journalists. Together we make our democracy. Democracy benefits from transparency. At the moment that doesn't happen, as a full House of Representatives, we have a big problem, just like the Cabinet. This is about the trust people can have in our public administration. That is what this debate is about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Before I ask my questions about the mouth cover deal to the then Minister of Health, I must first of all say something that several parties have already said here today: confidence in Dutch politics is worryingly low, and not without reason. In recent years, party interests and imagery have shaped the agenda of the various Rutte Cabinets, and the consequences have been disastrous. On 15 January last year, the Rutte III cabinet reluctantly resigned after the deafening report that was already mentioned today, the Unfamiliar injustice report, the horrendous surcharge scandal and the incomplete and untimely information of the Chamber. In the aftermath of that, we discussed in detail the so-called Ruttedoctrine, the doctrine that the cabinet is doing everything it can to keep the Chamber in the dark for as long as possible and to make it all up. The Rutte IV cabinet, the start of the Rutte III cabinet, therefore has quite a history. But instead of reflecting on its own role and working to strengthen confidence in politics, this cabinet continues on its old feet. We were promised a new administrative culture by the Prime Minister at Nieuwsuur, but this mouth cover deal once again reveals that imaging is still more important than respecting basic constitutional principles, such as timely and complete information of the House of Representatives. Just as it was quite normal in the past few years under the old administrative culture, that is the same again. After a lot of pulling and pushing MPs and journalists, Minister De Jonge finally made the flight forward yesterday and released information. Those documents show that, under pressure from Van Lienden and friends, the then Minister of Health gave the decisive push for this mouthcap deal, a deal that yielded EUR 20 million for the pandemic profiteer Van Lienden and left the taxpayer disillusioned. My first question to the former Minister of Health is therefore: why did the Minister want to turn everyone, including the Chamber, into a wheel about being the great catalyst of this deal? Why didn't he step forward on his own and say: I too have been deceived by this professional crook? Instead, he suggested that he wasn't even involved in this deal. I think the Chamber would not have been happy with that information, but it would have been a bit more forgiving. Van Lienden knew everyone to wind and deceive his finger, including this minister. Then I'll go on to that private e-mail. What other subjects has the Minister used his private address on, by the way, totally unacceptable? What other subjects will be covered? Can the Minister, for example, provide an exhaustive list of the subjects that affected his ministry and for which he used his private address? After all, we will be joining in a proposal from the SP, because it is unacceptable that this should continue. Can the Minister reflect on his role in damaging confidence in politics? I really mean a serious reflection, not a half-baked reflection like: I should have sent the app traffic to the Chamber sooner, and I apologize for that. I really mean a reflection on how things are gonna get better now. Finally, Mr President. Minister De Jonge tried as long as possible not to have to admit and when there was really no other way, when the pressure got too high, he kind of apologized. That wasn't because Hugo the Young was intrinsically motivated to do better, but because of the imaging. That is exactly what his own boss, Prime Minister Rutte, would do. As far as we are concerned, this is fundamentally wrong and very worrying behaviour. We hope to see improvements in this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been reading about voters who lose faith in politics for quite some time. It is serious to note that there is every reason to do so. The behaviour of a regiment should not require so much attention from parliament, especially at a time of war and rising inflation. It is painful that we are standing here because of the umpteenth issue in which the position of the Chamber is not respected, because the Minister is incomplete, unclear and inconsistent and because the Minister has not given us all the information. Mr. Chairman. From the missing memo-Palms in the supplement scandal to the endless number of cases in which the judge ultimately has to force the government to release certain information: informing the Chamber often immeasurably and incompletely. We're not talking about an incident here today, we're talking about a harmful pattern. Whether in all these matters it is a matter of conscious integrity violations or not and of real conflicts of interest or mere appearances, it does not matter anymore. The pattern raises suspicion and that undermines confidence. Trust is an important condition for a functioning democratic rule of law. That mistakes are made in a crisis like this, in a pandemic, is more than logical. But even if you make mistakes, you can be transparent, open and honest in the review. Deny that as a minister you were involved in a rather remarkable mouthcap deal when it was, using a private server against all the rules and all the security measures, and only apologize when the facts come to light... Where to start? Can Minister De Jonge explain why he granted such power to a partymate with indeed many followers on Twitter? Why was the Minister afraid of Mr Van Lienden? Does the Minister understand that the bizarre focus on imaging, which drips out of all communication, is damaging? I would ask the Minister to really reflect on this in his response. What was the real importance of working with Mr Van Lienden? What was the political importance? Why did the Minister ignore the advice of the civil servants and the LCH? In summary: we have great reservations about Van Lienden's actions and intentions; don't do it! Why did the Minister decide to ignore such clear signals? And what did the minister's assistant mean when he warned about "line blur"? Mr. Chairman. Why has it been trying to keep out specific information for so long and has it even been chosen to pay periodic penalty payments, and why yesterday, one day before the debate, could everything suddenly go to the Chamber? When was Minister Helder aware of the involvement of Minister De Jonge? Mr. Chairman. According to Minister De Jonge, the Volkskrant article on the deal, in which we could already read the first apps, would be wrong on points. I therefore wonder: what suggestions do the Minister think are not correct? Can he tell us exactly what he's doing? Mr. Chairman. As for the private mail changes and private messages, can the Minister confirm that there are no sensitive, work-related issues in those e-mails that the Chamber should have been informed about? On the basis of Article 68 and the Archive Act, we as a Chamber are entitled to all that information. So if there's any other information, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. The LCH proposed to take away 1 or 2 million mouth caps from Van Lienden. "If it's really necessary for imaging, order 1 or 2 million." A weekend after that, 40 million mouth caps were ordered in one go. I ask the Minister: how can this be done, and who ultimately commissioned it? I hope that the Minister will come up with a clear and good reflection to ensure that the confidence that is so necessary for our democracy and the rule of law can be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Goudswaard of JA21. It's his maiden speech. This means that he will be given a little more time and not interrupted. I suggest that we suspend briefly afterwards for the congratulations. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, my maiden speech. For many MPs, this is a personal highlight. I have the honour to replace Nicki Pouw-Verweij. She became Hanna's proud mother yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	Three years ago, I joined politics because I wanted to contribute to a better Netherlands: realism in the areas of climate action and immigration, and a reliable government. Why is a reliable government so important? Well, in any life, seemingly rock solid certainties can disappear. A man can fall deeply, and wake up in a world of chaos, despair and sadness, because life is sometimes suffering as well. Fortunately, man has endless resilience and, if you are lucky, loving family and good friends. Although my family, whose eldest son is under chickenpox, is 200 kilometers away from me, I feel they are always close to me. I give everyone the warmth and support I receive from them, because I know this has not been given to everyone. Therefore, at those moments, there must be a government that is there for you, so that after the necessary time and attention everyone can reconnect with the herd and continue his or her journey. That, Mr President, this human measure, attention and righteousness is all too often forgotten. Mr. Chairman. A reliable government would never have kept our parliament in the dark for so long, because thanks to excellent investigative journalism, everyone has been able to read what dubious practices took place in the early summer of 2020. The three gentlemen Sywert van Lienden, Bernd Damme and Camille van Gestel have deviously collected millions of public money from hardworking citizens. These are very reprehensible practices, partly because they knew that our country was in crisis. That was taken advantage of in a rude way. Confidence in politics continues to crumble: the current coalition has a social support base of only 59 seats, already before the war in Ukraine, the stalled housing market and the further expropriation of farmers. That's what we in Friesland would say. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis is over, but the performance of the former minister of VWS is still coming in all sorts of variants. It is a good thing that this Minister himself is here to explain. Of course, my group understands the pressure of circumstances, and I have read with horror that the many threats had an impact not only on the minister, but also on his family. As far as I am concerned, this Chamber can look at itself, because dealing with a minister who has to make decisions under great pressure can be too easy. Still. JA21 perceives a disturbing pattern, a pattern to look up the edges, to go over and to parate any criticism assertively, even long after the acute phase of the crisis was over. And yes, at some point that's going to turn against a minister. Mr President, I will conclude. Piece by piece an image of reality comes out that is quite different from the image that this minister has put out. In response to our parliamentary questions, the central function of the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries (National Consortium Auxiliaries) is discussed in detail. As it turns out, the LCH was passed at a crucial moment. Van Lienden's mouth caps were pushed the LCH down the throat, because at that time there was already a stock of a year. Reasonable procedural arrangements apparently did not withstand political pressure. It's just an example. I have a few questions for Minister De Jonge. Can the Minister explain why the views and concerns of the LCH were pushed aside under political pressure? Is it true that procedures to prevent competition were handled creatively? Did officials from the U.S. Department indicate that things weren't going well? Finally, Mr President. What is at issue at the heart of the matter is whether the Minister has interfered in matters where he should have stayed outside and then whether he has misled the Parliament on this matter. And what's "intruder"? According to Van Dale, that's getting involved in things that you're especially not involved with. That is short, powerful and there is no misunderstanding. That is an active attitude with regard to the offer of mouth caps to ensure that there is a deal. That means intensive contact with Van Lienden and with officials on this matter. I would ask the Minister to reply briefly and forcefully to the last two questions. Did the minister interfere with Van Lienden's deal? And did the Minister mislead the Chamber about his involvement in this mouthcap deal? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gold Sword, and congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Very nice how you gave a personal note to your substantive story. Good luck in this room. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment, so that you can receive the congratulations of colleagues in the Chamber and the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate and congratulate Mr Goudswaard on his maiden speech. It was remarkable that he managed to do it.That's very little given to get two ruffles on the benches during a maiden speech. But of course the happy news of the birth of Hanna, daughter of Mrs Pouw-Verweij, gave rise to that. We have also congratulated her on her ruffle. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another comment before going to the content. Of course, I understand the desire of many parties from the Chamber to quickly challenge former Minister of VWS De Jonge about the mouth cap deal. Of course, I also understand the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning's urge to be able to defend himself personally about his involvement in this in his previous role. But, however understandable and tempting, it is unfortunate in the eyes of the SGP Group that this path is now being taken. It is, in fact, a dubious transgression of the previously consistently applied rule of law, which is held accountable in the debate by the incumbent minister, including the actions of his or her predecessor in office. It is also unnecessary, because the Chamber has other possibilities to question former executives for their actions in previous positions, such as parliamentary questioning or parliamentary inquiry. All in all, therefore, no example for follow-up. Now to the content. Let me say first of all that the SGP wants to look at actions, including those of the former US Secretary of State, with some kind of kindness to approach seemingly attractive offers of masks. There was, after all, such a reminder, certainly of those who were there at that time, as yesterday, immense social and political pressure to buy as much protective equipment as possible. Of course, there are also critical questions to ask, which also live with my group. I'm not saying that in advance was all right with that. A deal with Van Lienden was strongly advised by buyers of the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries on several occasions. That is why I ask the Minister for Long-Term Care what the reasons were for making a deal with Van Lienden despite the internal criticism. How does it weigh the involvement of the then VWS Minister? From what point were the ministers at the time aware that Van Lienden would make a great deal of money on this deal? Madam President. But for the SGP, the biggest pain is in another point. Why was it only yesterday that things were finally opened? Why not give more weight to transparency and honesty? Not half-truths, but opening things up isn't the governance culture that we wanted to keep together? The key question in this debate is therefore for my group: why hasn't the full truth been told sooner about the involvement of the VWS Minister in this deal in response to Parliamentary questions? How can we be confident that, in future, we will also have openness in our parliamentary questions? I would like to hear a convincing response to that. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this. The fact that we are having an uncomfortable and unusual debate today is partly due to the fact that the Deloitte investigation into the mouth cover deal is also taking much longer than intended. What possibilities does the Minister for Long-Term Care see to further accelerate the investigation, or to prevent it from slowing down even further? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my speech in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. We are talking again today about the mouth cap deal, because it is clear that Relief Goods Alliance by Sywert van Lienden, Bernd Damme and Camille van Gestel did not sell mouth caps for non-profit purposes, while they pretended to supply personal protective equipment everywhere. Personal gain at the expense of taxpayers in times of the greatest crisis after World War II. After delivery it was also found that the mouth caps did not meet the quality requirements. That's how the government was fooled and bought twice. If that were not the case, we would not be talking about a separate deal here. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, Deloitte is conducting extensive research into all facts and timetables. The Public Prosecutor's Office has launched a criminal investigation on the basis of a report from temp agency Randstad. "Not at all," Randstad offered her help, assuming that everyone was only working for the good cause, perhaps not pro bono, but certainly pro bono. They too have been bought. Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to focus on three aspects, first of all on the fact that after delivery, discussion arose as to whether the mouth caps met the quality requirements. Deloitte's research will identify the facts and backgrounds, but the question is: is there a process in which it is no longer possible for the government's bought mouth caps or other means to turn out to be inadequate? What lessons have been learned from this? Secondly, Mr President, the circumstances that made the ministry particularly vulnerable to do business with strangers. In the first months of the crisis, everyone cried out for masks. Then you're confronted with someone who says he can easily take care of millions of mouth caps at a reasonable price, and who says on social media and almost daily in talk shows that the ministry with its professional buyers is incompetent and that he can set up a parallel competitive organisation himself. It is then the art of separating the chaff from the chaff. What lessons have been learned from this? And what measures has the Minister taken? 'Cause this could happen again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mrs. Agema, do you mind if Mrs. Van den Berg finishes her story first? After that, there's plenty of room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	Finally. Of course, this debate is also about the involvement of the previous VWS minister. His involvement in the corona file was very great, as was the involvement of each and every one of us in this Chamber. Debate after debate, the entire Chamber called on the cabinet to do everything possible to build as many stocks as possible. You will remember these debates. That the minister, like many of us, received numerous offers from companies, institutions and well-known and unknown Dutch people, was known and is not strange. However, as indicated in the reply to Parliamentary questions, all these offers were examined and handled under the responsibility of the then Minister for Medical Care, as it should be. The conclusion of the CDA Group is therefore that, even with yesterday's unique insight, with the information we have received, the personal integrity of this minister is not in question as far as we are concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. Some of my colleagues want an interruption. First, Mrs Agema, then Mr Klaver, then Mr Hijink and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	I understand from Mrs Van den Berg's contribution that CDA was guilty of Mr Van Lienden and that the Chamber was guilty, but that Mr De Jonge is not guilty of any kind in the mouth cap deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	If Mrs Agema asks if it would not have been useful if the Minister had indicated last year that he had had all kinds of apps, but that he had passed them on to Minister Van Rijn, she has a point there. But it is also true that the Minister was confronted with these kinds of offers, and so am I; I have also passed things on to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the fact that it has been said that we are going to set up a competitive organisation. If that were the case, there would be two voices in China on behalf of the Netherlands instead of one. That wouldn't have helped us in those days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'm a little freaked out about this. Mrs Van den Berg has been able to satisfy herself of all the facts put forward, for example in Sywerts Millions of Shop and Vermeulen, but also in the Volkskrant by Hendrickx and Kreling, in several Wob requests, and by Aukema and Van der Tuin. She's all been able to learn about that. Now the representative of the CDA stands to defend the flat nepotism of her party and of what has happened here. The Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries didn't want to be in the sea with CDA's Van Lienden. There were already 75 million caps inside at that time, large orders had already been made, there was uncertainty about the delivery, and it was a young organization. They didn't want to go with Van Lienden. They didn't! But then CDA'er Hugo de Jonge takes action, and CDA-sg Van den Dungen, CDA-p.a. Van den Brink, and CDA'er Pieter Omtzigt later, and you yourself. Why are you doing the debate anyway? You yourself asked Parliamentary questions to ensure that the Auxiliary Forces, these guests, were also exempt from VAT! Those were your parliamentary questions of April 20th. It's a big CDA gang. As a result, Sywert van Lienden was able to get back in the picture and so he was able to make a deal later. As a result, others, who didn't use that CDA-friendliness policy, couldn't make a deal. So that's what we're seeing today. Today, there's a mouth cap supplier who's suing the state to cancel their deal because they didn't have any CDA connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	I have just listed three points in relation to Mrs Agema's questions. Point one: "There were 75 million mouth caps. The national center says: we actually have enough. So why are they still being bought?" I can imagine from all sides that those professional buyers, who are used to working with big supply chains, say: this is just gonna work out. On the other hand, there is a minister, who feels the political and social pressure every day to provide enough masks. That the Minister then thinks "I would rather have 10 million mouth caps too much than one too little," I can imagine anything. I imagine the Minister would say: even if you think you have enough, buy some more. That's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, Mrs. Agema suggests that it has to do with Mr. Van Lienden being a member of the CDA at that time. That has nothing to do with it. The same would have applied to anyone else who would have shown the same behavior as Mr. Van Lienden, who would have said everywhere on social media: "I can. I can't deliver millions of mouth caps. I can set up a competitive organization." I am convinced that every minister would have said: go talk to him, because we will not be helped if a competitive organisation is set up. Thirdly, Mrs Agema says that Mrs Van den Berg has made proposals for VAT. I have the questions here at hand. It says who is covered by personal protective equipment. These are government institutions, charitable or philanthropic institutions, aid organisations, hospitals, healthcare institutions and healthcare providers in the BIG register. So that is not at all aimed at one aspect; that is simply to say that all these organisations were faced with enormous costs at the time and that is why those questions were asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	Finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	Interruptions are done at maximum in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, we didn't agree to that. We've agreed unlimited interruptions. But I'm going to continue with Mrs. Van den Berg. You're interrupting me right now. I almost finished. Mrs. Van den Berg...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	Well, now, I don't like that tone. We're just doing interruptions in threes. If you have another question, there will of course be another interruption. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Berg, in these parliamentary questions, you are asking to make it possible for private parties to benefit from the VAT exemption, in addition to organisations buying through the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries. So that's about the Sywert of Liendens of this world. You, too, were a CDA truck helping to make Sywert rich. Surely it can't be that if someone with a lot of media coverage is going to complain about the minister, he can only get a little EUR 100 million? It was an organization where the independent National Consortium Tools did not want to go in the sea. There were plenty of mouth caps inside, there were questions about security of supply, and they thought this was an unreliable partner. They had more reliable partners. And then it's gonna push CDA. Hugo the Young is going to push. The sg, Van den Dungen, is activated, also from the CDA. The PA of the CDA is going to call, because there has to be a deal with Van Lienden. He's coming back into the picture, and he's getting his deal. And then it's not enough, because after that, the CDA continues lobbying. More mouth caps should be ordered. The minister's getting really insecure. He's starting to e-mail and do it again. Pieter Omtzigt visits his friend Van Lienden of the CDA for hours. And then he leaves Van Lienden's plan at the Tower. And Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA is asking Parliamentary questions here. 100 million euros of community money, taxpayers' money, have been lost by the CDA. And Mrs Van den Berg now thinks it's easy to get away with this by saying "yes, in the end the only bad guy was Van Lienden" or "the Chamber shouldn't have asked for masks either." No, Mrs Van den Berg was part of the problem. She was part of nepotism. That's what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'd still like to respond to Mrs. Agema. So she says it's in some kind of CDA clan. Again, that has nothing to do with it. We were stuck with the following fact. I think Mrs Agema has forgotten how we here as a Chamber have repeatedly urged the Minister to provide adequate protective equipment to take care of those mouth caps. That the Minister thinks that "more than 10 million mouth caps too much than one too little," I can imagine anything. That more was bought, while professional buyers at that time said "according to us there is enough," I can imagine anything. The second is: Mrs Agema does not acknowledge that Mr Van Lienden threatened to set up a separate organisation, a competing organisation which would have meant that we in China should have spoken on behalf of the Netherlands and competed with each other in terms of prices. That would have been very bad for the Netherlands. I find it really too easy for Mrs Agema to say with the knowledge of today: well, it might have been easy; that would not have been necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver. I would ask Members to be really reluctant to mention the names of officials; we have the ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	I couldn't agree more. Am I here to debate with a Member of Parliament or with a government spokesman? A little explanation of how the government intended it all and how the Minister acted... I have a very specific question. You didn't go into that in your contribution. What do you think of the behaviour of this cabinet, of various directors, when it comes to providing information to journalists and to the House of Representatives? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	I am thinking of two aspects. Mr. Klaver says: shouldn't the then Health Minister last year have indicated that he had received these apps and that he passed them on, as he probably had others'? He could have done better. There's absolutely a point, Mr. Klaver. That is also the opinion of the CDA. But that's a little different from Mr. Klaver suggesting that all of that happened deliberately and intentionally, and that there would be a bad background to it. I really think that's a different approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	I would like to suggest that Mrs Van den Berg should also take part in section K. Because as a Lower House, we should stand side by side, opposition and coalition, to do truth finding, to find out what the intentions were and what was shared at what time and what was not. Now you're gonna tell me that it was all well-meant, that the intentions weren't wrong. How do you know that? How do you know that? You can't know that. We have a debate for that now. This is exactly the old coal administration culture in which a coalition party is already defending its own minister, without being really interested in what is shared there. It's not just the point that he should have been a little clearer in a letter. There was a damn Wob request from the Volkskrant. There's been a lot of training. Last week the apps came up through another ministry and another Wob request. Then the Minister said: none of that is true. This is so much bigger. If Mrs Van den Berg does not want to see that and does not really want to have the debate, please sit down. This is a real disgrace to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	I believe that a great many questions have already been asked that we also want an answer from the Minister on what has happened, why it has taken so long around the Wob requests and how it has happened with the entire information provision. We will certainly get an answer to that. In addition, of course, there is also an investigation by Deloitte and another investigation is under way by the Public Prosecutor's Office. So I really don't think this is the last time we're gonna talk about the mouth caps here. If that information is available, we, as CDA, would like to discuss it further. We are now talking in particular about how the former minister behaved here. In our view, that is today's debate. We say: if we look at the circumstances at the time, we understand that the Minister says 'buy but more, even if you think there is enough'. We also understand that the Minister who has been offered services has continued. Again, Mr. Van Lienden constantly threatened, in the media and every day on Twitter: "I can do better. I can set up a competitive organization." It would have been extremely bad for the Netherlands if that had happened in that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mrs Van den Berg always points to the circumstances. That is why we should not talk about the intentions and intentions of the former Minister of Health. Only, of course, the point is correct: when you read the pieces, you see that the intentions, the intentions, were quite dubious. If you look at what was the final reason why a deal with Sywert had to be made, then it wasn't about as many mouth caps as possible. No, that was the dirty story about: you better have him pissing out than pissing in. He literally said that. This was not about buying as much as possible. It was about: we pull him inboard, so that we are rid of the bad PR, the criticism and the bad imaging. I do not hear Mrs van den Berg on that at all, but that is of course the reason. It is precisely when you examine and read these documents very carefully that you see that this minister's undertone has been towards his officials. Meanwhile, the officials were all saying, "Don't do this." But the minister said we'll do it, we have to do it. He then apprehended: with a little tolerance, everything must be fine. That's why the deal had to be made. It wasn't about buying as much as possible or rather one extra than far too little. No, the deal had to be made to avoid bad imaging. Does Mrs Van den Berg recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mrs van den Berg absolutely acknowledges to Mr Hijink that there was pressure, of course. Mr. Hijink sketches that it was about someone in the media constantly shouting and that is why contact was sought. That didn't necessarily happen because 10 million more mouth caps were needed according to the professionals. In my view, the aspect of the pressure that a competitive organisation would be created has also been mentioned in my contribution. That was the reason to be in touch, I also mentioned in my contribution. I'm sure that played a part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then it is incredible that the outcome of the whole discussion is a deal of EUR 100 million, of which three people put EUR 20 million in their pockets. That's an incredible outcome, isn't it? If that's the underlying reason for signing that contract, to make that deal, then you'd wonder why former Minister Van Rijn or Minister De Jonge didn't say right away: wait a minute, we talked to these guys, they're a bunch of crooks, they're trying to cheat us, they've set up an e.g., when they say they're not working for profit, so we're not going in with these guys, and this is why we're not doing that. No, he tried to call it off by making a deal. At first that might have been a small deal, but then it became a big deal and eventually we all missed out for EUR 100 million. Why didn't the cabinet tell you not to get involved with these guys? No, the minister tried to cover it up, to cover it up, to make a deal, and then, when it all came out a year later, he tried to pull his hands off it. That's pretty tacky, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	I think Mr. Hijink quite rightly raises one point. If this deal hadn't led to that crazy profit, if it hadn't really happened, not for profit, we wouldn't have been here today at all. But that these were unreliable people was not known at that time at all. In my view, the fact that profits have indeed been made is exactly what the Public Prosecutor's Office and Deloitte are investigating. It's said you shouldn't go in with them, because they're not reliable. If that had been known by then, the Ministry could have put it in the paper. But that was not known at the time. And then I'll find out about the deal. Mr Hijink also asked why 40 million, because you could have made a smaller deal. Yes, that was Minister Van Rijn's responsibility. I cannot find anywhere that the former VWS minister has had any influence on how many mouth caps should or should not be bought. But there was the instruction: how can we ensure that this gentleman does not call on television every night that we are incompetent as a nationwide center?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	What kind of weakness is it to make a mega-deal with someone whose officials and the National Consortium Aids tell you not to want to do business with him? It's not a way of driving someone into a $100 million deal, is it, because he's so critical on television and can send so many twos over Twitter? Looking at this whole thing, I have a question for Mrs Van den Berg. It may well be that Minister De Jonge did not sit at the table with Sywert at the time to fill in the details. Yeah, I bet you do. That was probably Minister Van Rijn at the time. I'm sure you do. Now that we've seen all these apps and all these messages, can't you deny that this minister has pushed against all defiance to get this deal done, just to prevent that dirty pissing in? That was ultimately the underlying goal this minister had, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think that has played a good part in the fact that Mr Van Lienden said everywhere: I am going to set up a competitive organization. That would have just been very bad for the Country Consortium Tools. So that the minister tried to prevent that and said "see what you can do about it," I can imagine anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. We go to Mr Azarkan, then to Mr Van Haga, Mrs Kuik and then to Mrs Agema. Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mrs Van den Berg gets a 10, a 10 out of 10, if you look at it from the cabinet's perspective. But I still think she forgot she's MP here. My question to Mrs van den Berg is: what is your interpretation of Article 68 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	That we have the right to the information we are asking for. I think that's crystal clear. If Mr. Azarkan says "we have had quite a discussion about that," then he has a point. In my view, questions have just been asked about this in order to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	Then where are these discussions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	I think the discussion was about the pace. One of the questions that at least a predecessor asked is: why did it take us so long to get this insight yesterday? I think it would have been a great help for the whole discussion if we had been given that earlier. That, of course, is something we would like to know as a CDA, because that helps and that could have prevented a lot of speculation and all other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	Colleague Van den Berg described it as "unhandy." In doing so, she took some kind of advance on the outcome of the debate. What does she mean by "clumsy"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	Last year the Minister was asked: did you have any involvement in this? The Minister said: no, I did not. Because the entire substantive deal and the agreements on the millions and the numbers and so has this minister had nothing to do with it. Of course it wasn't convenient that he didn't say at the time: but yes, I did get all kinds of apps from that Sywert about how he could do better and had all the offers, but I just passed them on to Martin van Rijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	Then we'll get to a point. We're getting to a point where we've established that Van Lienden's consortium was dismissed. That is because we have guarantees, and not only in crisis time, I can tell you from experience. Every day, people within the government are approached to take stuff. We have safeguards for that. The guarantee is that it's done by people who know it. They test that against criteria. They would have done that. They said, "That Sywert, he's no good." And yet the Minister has been actively interfering. Can we then come to the conclusion together that the Minister has been involved in the breadth of the creation and in the contact of this Sywert with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	What Mr. Azarkan seems to forget is what the circumstances were two years ago. There was enormous social and political pressure to buy mouth caps and protective equipment, and rather too much than just one too little. In fact, Mr. Azarkan says that we have good procurement procedures here. That was also one of my first questions: how can you prevent those discussions from starting under pressure? Because of course, Mr. Van Lienden said: I'm going to do a separate purchasing organization. That Rural Consortium knew very well: we now have a large stock of mouth caps, but corona is unmistakable; we don't know how many more we're going to need. It really doesn't help if you're negotiating with two organizations in China from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Azarkan, also for your interruptions... no, I also said to Mrs. Agema: we're doing interrupts in threes. If there are any further questions, I will give you the floor again. No, we're really doing interruptions in threes. I even gave you an interruption in four, because you had a very short interruption. Congratulations on the shortness of the interruption, but I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga. Then you can see if there are any questions later. Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mrs van den Berg's performance is astonishing at the very least. I share all the criticisms of my predecessors that it seems a bit like Mrs Van den Berg is no longer part of the Chamber, but of the Cabinet. She mainly talks about improving the process and learning lessons for the future, but I think we are here to control the cabinet. If people have made mistakes, also willingly, they are guilty and have to leave linea recta. You noted that everyone in this Chamber would have been involved in this kind of deal. You said, "I've been going through things myself." This was a typical CDA deal. It's kind of the corrupt CDA syndicate that performed. Now you indicate that as part of that, you yourself have passed on all kinds of things to the cabinet. How am I supposed to imagine that? Is the CDA gonna be on the docks doing all this, all these shady deals, together with the Cabinet? My exact question is, what exactly did you pass through? Have you been involved in that deal yourself? That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	Let me put it first: I didn't know Mr. Van Lienden before that. I'd heard his name before, but he was completely unknown to me. But Mr. Van Haga will also have had emails from companies that said... I know that at least Mr. Baudet called here once: I have the name of a company here. I had several e-mails from companies that I mentioned last June in the debate which said: "Miss, I can make the raw material. Ma'am, if I adjust my machines a little bit, I can make those mouth caps." I used to call him first. At first I wanted to know if it was a serious business. If that's what I thought, I've applied for it a lot when I heard: "Madam, I can't get through to the National Consortium." There were thousands and thousands of e-mails. So sometimes I get it on the p.a. passed on from the Minister: they seem serious companies; I don't know about it, but can they at least get a decent answer? That's all I've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	Does Mrs Van den Berg at least agree with me that the intention should always have been that parties who came forward should have gone through the regular procurement process? What went wrong here is that CDAs played each other the ball because they knew other CDAs. That is the point that I think you should go a little bit more into. 'Cause things have changed a lot. Of course I got a call, too. Now we're back with NIHW from Haarlem. They almost had a deal. They had a deal. They're about to go to trial. All this has been avoided because the CDA made a deal with other CDAs. I am so surprised that at that point you do not seem to have any self-reflection on your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	First of all, I totally agree with Mr. Van Haga that people who offer to... I never want to sit on a doctor's chair and I don't want to sit on the chair for the purchase of mouth caps, or whatever. You have to leave that to the professionals. But again, I do think that serious companies should also receive a serious answer as to why they are suitable or not, or that there may already be sufficient providers. That can of course also be the case at a certain point. Then Mr Van Haga says: yes, but, they are all CDAs This has nothing to do with the CDA as far as I am concerned. I got e-mails from companies that weren't even members at all. They probably voted for other parties on a number of occasions. But I think I am standing here in front of all the Dutch and that in the middle of the crisis I must pass this on, whoever it is that is sending me an e-mail. And that Mr. Van Lienden so much... First of all it turned out, of course, that he didn't do it pro bono at all, but just with profit. If that had not happened, we would not have been here today at all. But the government was bought after all. For everyone else with so much noise on social media and on Twitter but yells "they're a little incompetent there, they're completely incompetent there, I can do it all better" and they're doing name-dropping, with all kinds of big organizations that've arranged it all, while it turns out that he hadn't had any contact with any of those organizations before that... Yes, I can imagine you say in the middle of the biggest crisis after World War II: go talk to that man and make sure that we don't get these kinds of messages anymore. Because the people in the country were gradually wondering whether the Ministry and the National Consortium were competent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	I think the people in this country are wondering where the $100 million went for rotten mouth caps that couldn't be used. But by saying "it wasn't a CDA deal, it wasn't a corrupt CDA syndicate" you're a bit against it. All those involved were CDAs. And perhaps one last question: is Mrs Van den Berg familiar with other CDAs, perhaps from the group, or perhaps from the circuit, people you know from the party, who have also had contact with Sywert van Lienden or Hugo de Jonge and who have played a role in this? 'Cause it's weird that the lid's gonna go off the box of wormholes and crawl all the CDAs out of there, right? Then it seems to me that this is the tip of the iceberg and that there must be some more. So do you know any other CDAs involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	I really don't know anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	In this debate, Mrs Van den Berg says "go talk to this man, make this stop" and actually outlines the reasons for Minister De Jonge to make sure that a deal would be made with Mr Van Lienden. It therefore also acknowledges that there is indeed an involvement. It is not about the amount, it is not about that there was a crisis, but it recognises that involvement. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	Involvement in the sense that the Minister has asked: please go talk to that man, because all those messages on Twitter, on social media and on all those talk shows are not helping us to achieve our goal, namely that people get the confidence that the consortium has purchased sufficient personal resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	To what extent does Mrs Van den Berg consider the involvement when you say: oh fine, it works, I'm hugging him to death? He was informed in advance that there was a deal on his hands. Does Mrs Van den Berg consider this to be a commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	I see that more as a feedback, of: if it is right, the messages now also stop on social media, and thus the threat of that competing organisation. That's how I interpreted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	There's the crux right there. I know Mrs Van den Berg as an integrity politician, who always goes for the truth and not for things. Now, in this way, enter into the debate and start a semantic discussion about what exactly is involvement, while the Chamber has repeatedly asked for a precise factual account, for precise involvement and for exactly how it works in such a department, ignores that integrity question, that trust question. Then why is that still helpful in what we all stand for, namely confidence in politics? I regret that, and that is not helping in the search for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	I think I have already indicated to one of the previous interruptions that we, as CDA, do not think it is convenient that the Minister did not say last year: 'I did not have any substantive involvement but I did indeed ask to talk to that man, because he is just competing with us in all areas now and calling us incompetent, so please talk to that man'. It would indeed have been a good thing if the Minister had brought that out earlier. I agree with Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	I hear Mrs van den Berg consistently using two arguments which I do not think are correct, namely that she thought it was a good idea that the Minister did not want a competitive organisation at the time and her condoning of 'the more mouth caps, the better'. For the first point, 75 million mouth caps were already inside at that time and orders had been made for more than six months of mouth caps. So that fear of a competitive organisation didn't have to be there at all. Mrs van den Berg's second argument, the more masks, the better, is not correct either. If you take a closer look at the message about that mouth cap supplier that is now suing the State, you can see that it is an organisation that has been active in healthcare for years, which has a wide network, is active in China and has a branch there. She delivered a sample of those masks to the RIVM for approval on April 7th. Then the judgment of the RIVM is: as many purchases as possible. But suddenly this agreement is cancelled on the same weekend as in which the deal with Van Lienden is concluded. So no action was taken on the basis of the idea: the more masks, the better. The deal with this trustworthy organization was cancelled. Sywert from Lienden from the CDA got the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	To begin with, I do not have any information on this, so I simply cannot comment on the substance of the matter. In addition, Mrs.Agema says that enough had already been ordered, but a fear was that ordering did not always mean that it would also come into your warehouse. There had been many examples of what had been ordered and what was also a contract and what was not delivered or not delivered in time or where there were distribution problems. In such a situation, the biggest crisis, you say you want something more capacity than you actually need, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	No, because I am just giving Mrs Van den Berg the arguments why her reasoning is not correct. It wasn't about orders. The panic was already over. There were already 75 million mouth caps inside at that time and there were still six months in order through all reliable organizations that were already delivering massively. Then the argument is given that they did not want a competitive organisation. No, that's pushing CDA Minister Hugo de Jonge at the trial. That's what's so wrong. Then you finally see that reliable partners, who have a location in China, have masks approved by the RIVM and who want to buy the RIVM to the maximum, have lost their deal. Presumably that's what they've started a lawsuit about now.That's what happened on the same weekend as when CDA'er Van Lienden got the deal. He hadn't put in any masks yet, and those masks turned out to be all bad. These people, who aren't CDA, didn't get the deal. The argument that Mrs Van den Berg uses, the more masks, the better, does not apply either, because the deal of this trustworthy partner, with excellent mouth caps, was cancelled on the same weekend and the CDA managed everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	I know there were 75 million mouth caps back then. They were in stock at the time. That would have been good for 19 weeks, I remember. But then, of course, you'll need it again. So that you want some more masks, I can imagine at that time. Mrs Agema's second question was why that company didn't get the deal. I really don't have any information on that. I'm also curious about how that turned out. In any case, I assume that this will also be taken into account in Deloitte's research.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	I shall then give the floor to Mr Azarkan and then to Mrs Van Esch. Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	What does Mrs Van den Berg think about a minister acting under pressure in the media?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	Of course, we can all say that this should not happen at all. But we were in the biggest crisis after World War II. Everyone in society had an opinion about corona. Everyone had an opinion about mouth caps. In between, a cabinet needs to be able to achieve the best results for society as a whole. I just heard Mr. Van der Staaij say that he looks at that situation with some kindness. We also look with some kindness. You were confronted every night with all kinds of opinions, about corona as such, what you should and should not do, in all kinds of talk shows. There, too, the Ministry had to be constant in order to take action on the one hand and to maintain that balance with society on the other. So I'm just gonna give it to you to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	In fact, Mrs Van den Berg says that it is up to the Minister to determine this on the basis of something that ends up in the media, which he suffers from, which gives him some pressure, and to say: well, then I will put my top officials to work to give that person priority. Actually, he's bringing that deal to the Minister's camp. Then he's in that tent. So you're actually saying, "Putting pressure into the media, blackmailing a little" from the apps you've read, it turns out that he's doing the same too, "it's fine, because then the minister has to act." That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	We may have a nice fundamental debate about this with each other, because in many areas we see that the greatest shouters get the most attention. This also applies very often to the talk shows. So we can have a debate on that as well. At the moment, I think you'll also see that if there's news, you have to give an immediate response to what you think. Sometimes you haven't even been able to read a report, but everyone has an opinion on something right away. As a society, we may sometimes wonder whether that is the society at all that is going to lead to the best results for all of us. I fully agree with Mr Azarkan when he says: "If you have agreed good procedures in terms of quality and processes, then you have to stick to them as a government. These procedures should not be under pressure." I fully agree with Mr Azarkan. But again, you see there's a constant threat to that competing organization. This means that there would be another organization that would also buy in China. It's going to bid against the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries in terms of prices. I find that extremely unhealthy. So I don't think the Minister ordered you to come to a deal. He just asked: can you make sure that this separate organization doesn't get there and can you make sure that we don't get these messages in the media every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	One suffers most from the suffering that one fears. Actually, the Minister says: "I suffer a lot anyway, because Mr. Sywert is a little threatening to me every time in talk shows. That's what he does with bluff and that's what's bothering me." Eventually, this cost $100 million for worthless mouth caps. In fact, you say that a minister must be able to act, because sometimes that is the way it is. That's what you're actually saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	No. Mr. Azarkan suggests that the minister would say this, because it affected him personally. I think if this minister had had any personal problems, he would have quit the job after a month. He's been threatened. His family's been threatened. So I don't think the personal burden is at all at all. What it was about is that the National Consortium would suffer from it. It would also affect us as a society, because we would soon have to pay a lot more money if two organisations were to bid against each other. That we were finally bought, I say to Mr Azarkan, became known afterwards. If at that time it had been known that Mr Van Lienden was not working pro bono at all, but only working to raise millions of dollars, we could of course have put that on Twitter ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Azarkan, this was your third. Second? Third? Well, you get the benefit of the doubt. If my staff doesn't know, I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	It's not about "personal." I do not assume that this minister has had a personal gain. I say: the Minister finds it annoying from his point of view of leading a ministry that there are all kinds of people shouting all kinds of things that are bothering him. That's what he's calling out. He also quotes Lyndon B. Johnson: "You'd better have someone who's pissing from the inside out than someone from the outside out." He's literally quoting that. "So I have to get him inboard. Make sure that guy... See what you can do. Get on the phone." Actually, he was brought in after that. I think it is important to establish, from your control role too, what the Minister's motives are for doing so. At that point, the Minister actually played hide-and-seek. So my question to you, Mrs van den Berg, is: how does that relate to the controlling task you have? Because that is your most important task under state law: you have to check what the cabinet does, because the cabinet spends money and can make all kinds of commitments. It's 350 billion a year. You need to check that out. Have you been able to check sufficiently on the basis of the information you have received from the Minister about recent events? Have you been able to do your job?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	In my opinion, we are all saddened by the results of the Deloitte study. Last year, when it became known that Mr Van Lienden had not worked pro bono at all, I also said in the Chamber that we as a CDA are extraordinary... Let me use a word... Well, you can fill it out yourself. This just can't be. We think this is just outrageous behavior. Let's just leave it at that. That is why we want the bottom stone above what happened and also in the relationship with Mr Van Lienden. Once again, if Mr Van Lienden had just delivered reliable pro bono masks, we would not have had this debate with each other today at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party, then Mrs Kuik and then Mrs Agema again. First, Mrs. Van Esch, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	Despite the urge to talk a great deal about the substance of this oral cover deal, I would like to broaden it by looking at that promised new administrative culture, which was said to be different a year ago. I wonder if Mrs Van den Berg can reflect on how she thinks that the new administrative culture has been going so far, also in view of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	I think that, in summary, there are still some steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	Then I wonder what steps you think should be taken. I think several people share that view, but I wonder what steps Mrs van den Berg thinks should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	I will not go into too much detail here, but I also sometimes see things that we get as a committee. Then I sometimes think that it can be delivered in a much more practical and transparent way, to name but a few. Quite specifically, for today's debate I have already indicated that it would have been very much better if the information we received yesterday had come to the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	How are we gonna do that? I don't see any new governance culture yet. I do not see that promise made last year being implemented. It was promised that Wob requests will be honored, that the information will come soon and that we in the Chamber will not have to constantly ask for information, which will then only be delivered at the moment when it really can no longer be otherwise. I wonder if you share that vision and how we're going to change it. I am asking you to do so, especially since the CDA is part of the cabinet. How are we gonna break that? I believe that this question is crucial for the debate. You say that you also think that steps should be taken. Which one? What else are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	I think that in a committee, in preparation for debates, we can already discuss in more detail how we want that information. It is the general point that comes up today, because then we have this kind of debate. At the time when the information did not come in time, or later than we asked, we stand here together as a Chamber. As far as I'm concerned, that's a constant conversation with the cabinet. I've also learned that cultures don't change in a month. You have to want to make efforts on both sides. I think it is important for the cabinet today to show what steps it intends to take in order to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	I hesitated for a while. It seems as if Mrs Van den Berg is the minister to be held accountable. That is also because Mrs van den Berg constantly pretends to be the minister. It indicates what the motives have been. In that vein is also my next question. It states that it understands that there has been involvement in that crisis situation and under that publicity pressure. But does she also understand why the cabinet and Minister De Jonge have not given any openness? Does she understand why we have been waiting a year for answers and why Wob requests are being stopped? That happens even with threats of money that you have to pay, because you don't comply with the rules. There's even lawsuits going on. Should we accept that as a room?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, what I just said to Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Esch: it would really have been better if this kind of information had just come to the Chamber sooner. I also hope that this is not something of Mr De Jonge alone, who has now sent documents to the Chamber in a special openness, including all apps. I hope that the whole cabinet realizes that even if you think, so to speak, after a month, that you did say that this is it, but that you should actually deliver a little extra, you will do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	I couldn't agree more, but none of that happened. And at the same time, you condone it by presenting all kinds of circumstances that may have contributed to it. You yourself say that we have to work on a new culture together, but if you put down all this condolences and stand in the Minister's shoes, what makes us confident that we will also go to a new culture, if you are still part of that culture? Or so it seems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	In any case, I would like to take that away from Mrs Kuik. But I would also like to make a distinction in the circumstances, in what the Minister's involvement in the deal is called, the apps he has sent. I say of this: given the circumstances, I can understand that it is happening and I can understand that the Minister says 'please go talk to Van Lienden'. The other part is about: when did the information come to the Chamber? I believe that enough questions have already been asked about this, but we would also like to have a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Because it would definitely have helped if we had gotten this information sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	We are going to get those answers, but my sincere question to Mrs Van den Berg is: what is needed to convince her that we are still dealing with a reliable driver here? What weighting does it make? So far, we haven't seen any of that in the past year. This is also the case with the CDA, which also affects Mrs Van den Berg. So my question is, what does it take? Does she think Minister De Jonge is capable of being that reliable director?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	When Mrs Kuik says that Minister De Jonge sometimes makes an unfortunate remark, I say: every person makes mistakes. Dancing with Janssen is in that category for me. But that's another thing than that I doubt personal integrity. I do not doubt Mr De Jonge's personal integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	This was in no way an answer to my question. I would like to ask what weighting it makes, in response to the questions she asked at the end of the debate, to assess whether there is a reliable driver. 'Cause she has that question, too. That's what she just said to me. I ask: what do you need to make that weighting? I'm not talking about dancing with Janssen or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	We would then first like to hear all the answers from the cabinet before we make a weighting. I indicated that we would have liked to have seen the information we received yesterday earlier. For the situation of 2020, I can understand that, given the circumstances. And even then it might have been good to give much more openness about that, considering that we didn't know that Mr. Van Lienden was not reliable at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	I have two more points. One is that Mrs Van den Berg states that she does not in any way doubt Mr De Jonge's personal integrity. Is she familiar with the Wob documents in which, among other things, you can read: 'The Minister has indicated this morning that he no longer wants to receive documents by e-mail'? Then an official responds in the following way: "I acknowledge that of that letter. But I think there can be a time when we must send without his consent. If only for parliamentary historiography and anticipation of possible Wob requests."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	Then I want to know the details of things, too. I'm not going to respond to certain quotes here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	You can't. That is not possible, because then Mrs van den Berg's conclusion must be that there is something wrong with Mr De Jonge's integrity. The other point concerns the fact that Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA has been directed several times towards former Minister Van Rijn of the PvdA. I understand from the documents we received yesterday from the Ministry that we are actually happy with Martin van Rijn. I assume you've read them all, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	Because where Minister De Jonge continues to push on that second deal after the first deal of 40 million mouth caps, of 80 million mouth caps, it is Martin van Rijn who doesn't like it at all anymore. Where Hugo de Jonge starts again with "just now the flame is in the pan and we have to prevent that," says Martin van Rijn: if those 40 million caps come. He also says: threatening German and Greek dentists seems very unbelievable. Later it is Martin van Rijn who complains, in the direction of Hugo de Jonge: Sywert is working again, because Sywert is pushing for that second, very big deal. What does that prove to be? Then it's May 25th. That's very important. We read in the message from Sywert van Lienden: the first products ordered by the LCH with the Auxiliaries have yet to arrive in the Netherlands. So during the closing of the deal in mid-April we already had 75 million caps inside. There was another six months in order. Mrs van den Berg says: yes, but I thought the argument of not a competitive initiative was a good argument. That doesn't make any sense. The argument that we needed so many masks doesn't add up either. Another reliable supplier was removed. And it just turns out that more than a month later there were no mouth caps inside at all. All the arguments put forward so far by Mrs Van den Berg are not correct or easy to undermine. How does she look at her own contribution at the end of her contribution to this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	I read that from May 25th, too. As far as we are concerned, this is at least a point that we want to take very seriously into account in Deloitte research. This means, as Mrs Agema points out, that sometime in mid-April a deal will be made but it will then take some time to deliver. I think it only endorses the clear separation between what Minister Van Rijn was responsible for and the role of Minister De Jonge, and that Minister De Jonge has also clearly left to Minister Van Rijn how many mouth caps were eventually bought or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	Finally. My impression is that thanks to former Minister Van Rijn the Netherlands has not entered the ship twice with Sywert van Lienden of the CDA. My request is real: be a little open to that. Pieter Ommzigt, then still from the CDA, did push on that, leaving the plan behind in the Tower. CDA'er Hugo de Jonge pushed on that by saying: yes, but he's busy again. From the pieces we received yesterday, my impression is that it was Martin van Rijn who thought: he is again busy and he is pushing and pushing and I find him unbelievable. Probably it was Martin van Rijn, which means we didn't go into the ship twice. I hope that Mrs Van den Berg will also want to realize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	I have just indicated that I think it is very good that this separation was there and that Minister Van Rijn finally determined how much money was or was not bought in. What other CDAs at the time may or may not put down somewhere, you should ask those other people and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	Thank you. This brings us to the end of your contribution. I suggest we suspend for a short time just to stretch our legs. Then we go to Mrs. Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the mouth cover deal. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Tielen of the VVD for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take the Chamber back to spring 2020. Do you remember? The streets were empty, the ic-beds were overcrowded, and every night we were confronted in current events, at talk show tables and with the film footage of Front Messages with the panic that caused the contagion wave of the coronavirus. There were shortages of knowledge, of treatment options, of protective equipment. From all sides, companies and individuals came up with tips and ideas to fill those deficits. Members of parliament gave notes to box K with phone numbers. This Chamber met for hours each week and made subsequent decisions on sometimes up to 60 different motions. The cabinet met for hours a day. Ministers took dozens of risky decisions based on 50% of the information, and with a major impact on lives. In all that hecticness, no one wanted to miss a chance to fill in deficits. Mr. Chairman. When a year later our country got used to the unpredictability of corona, there were better treatments, vaccines, and there was more control, we could look with a cooler head at what had happened around the gaps in mouth caps. Here, in the Chamber, and among the people in the country there was a growing indignation over the mouth caps of Van Lienden and associates. 100 million euros of taxpayers' money is gone. That's bad, but it might still be understandable in the hectic. But the fact that the entrepreneurs involved didn't just volunteer with this deal, as they claimed and promised several times, but that these men have become millionaires, makes them indignant and angry. Publications and shared mail and app messages have also given rise to the appearance that Minister De Jonge has played a not too good role. The latter is the subject of today's debate. What was the role of Minister De Jonge in the conclusion of the mouth cover deal with Relief Goods Alliance, and how does the Chamber judge that role? I would also like to discuss, assess and assess the question of the role of Relief Goods Alliance itself in this Chamber later this year. Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the information I have so far, I have questions for Minister De Jonge and also questions for Minister Helder. First to Minister De Jonge. The Minister wrote in his letter yesterday that he was not involved in negotiations. From the information that has been shared, my group gets the impression that he has done more than simply forward Van Lienden's name and phone number. So there are two questions about that. What is the reason why, even after passing on Van Lienden's contact, the Minister had contact with Van Lienden about the deal? Does the Minister consider that to be legitimate after all? How does the Minister reflect on the term "involvement"? He's actually continuing to trivialize his involvement. How does he weigh that? How does he reflect on his own statements in the media? I would also like to know from the Minister whether he has made more contacts than with Van Lienden, and whether he has ever said no to contacts. Did he have an "official policy" before that, to put it that way, for himself? I referred earlier to the more than EUR 100 million in wasted taxpayers' money, which has enriched Van Lienden. Me, us, the people in the country, feel us fooled by Van Lienden. How does Minister De Jonge feel about that? 100 million euros of taxpayers' money, worthless mouth caps, promised not to but resulting in three millionaires. How did he feel fooled? The media image of De Jonge is not very open and reflective, especially if it turns out that until last week the Minister deliberately, and contrary to the advice and agreements, lets his communication run through private emails. How does the Minister look at that image? If that is very different from the image he has, what do we not understand? What are we supposed to understand? I'd like a reflection. Mr President, back to spring 2020. From Minister Helder, I would like to know to what extent procurement and quality procedures were applicable at the time, and whether procedures were changed to meet shortages. What was the hold-up that the procedures were, and did that hold? Looking back on the past year, I would like to know from Minister Helder why Deloitte has postponed the completion of the requested investigation to five times. Why do you slow down so often? How can the Minister ensure that there is no further delay? I would very much like to have a debate on the Deloitte research before the summer recess. Mr. Chairman. My group cannot draw a definitive conclusion based on what we now know. Today, Minister De Jonge has to give further text and explanation, creating context, but in the end that is only part of the total story about this mouth cover deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you. There's been some interruptions. Firstly, Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy, then Mrs Agema, and then Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	Sorry, Mrs. Agema. First Mr Van Houwelingen and then Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD is now suddenly very critical of the deal Sywert has made. Of course, we are all very critical of that. But why hasn't the VVD done anything about putting VWS under enhanced financial supervision over the past year? We have tabled motions for that, but they have not supported the VVD. For example, we have also been very critical of the LCH; it has already been mentioned a few times. But I also did not see the VVD. What did the VVD do in the past year, when all these abuses were happening, to pull the strings? And why didn't you support all those motions that were intended to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	I believe that the VVD has been constantly critical of everything that has happened, particularly during the corona crisis, of what has happened financially and procedurally. At the same time, the VVD thinks it is fair to just be realistic and look forward. The fact that the VVD did not support Mr Van Houwelingen's motions is probably because we simply did not find them strong enough to improve situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	Let me give you one example: you are critical of Deloitte's research. We are also critical of this. Last year we presented a very specific motion to allow the General Court to carry out that investigation, which we as a Chamber could also have much more control over. But that's what the VVD voted away. Then why did you even vote for such a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	I have no criticism of the Deloitte study. I can't have it at all, because I haven't seen it. I don't know what Mr. Van Houwelingen is referring to right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	I refer, of course, to the technical briefing that took place yesterday. You were there, too. You just said that we were all very disappointed. But of course we have no control over that investigation. VWS is the client. With the General Court of Auditors we could probably have gotten notes more often and we would have had control over this. The General Court also has more powers. So that's actually my question. It is completely unclear to me. It's like the VVD is indirectly protecting VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	That suggestion is... sorry for the unparliamentary use of words, but that doesn't make any sense. First of all, Mr. Van Houwelingen is going to say things again that I would have said I didn't say. The Deloitte study is ongoing. They're independent forensic accountants. There's the knowledge to get that whole bucket of information that's around the mouth cap deal, straighten it out and weigh it. I'm confident that's gonna make a lot of difference. What I am critical of is that it has been postponed five times, but I have already put questions to Minister Helder. Mr Van Houwelingen and I do not disagree in substance about the fact that it is very important that there is truth, that the facts come together and that we can draw conclusions on that basis. However, it seems that we differ on the method. But I don't think that's such a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	I hope that Mrs Tielen of the VVD realises very well that CDA'er Sywert van Lienden, if it had been up to the National Consortium Aids, would have had no deal at all. After being rejected, they were Hugo de Jonge of the CDA, a secretary-general of the CDA and a p.a. From the CDA, and then that deal came about. That's nepotism and nepotism. That is very ugly within the CDA, also because several CDAs even tried to get a second deal. Does Mrs Tielen realize that today, at the end of the day, it is up to her whether Hugo the Young is still Minister? And does she realize that, if the outcome is yes, she accepts favoritism and nepotism at the CDA? Does it realize that they are then friends in the coalition more important than justice for losing 100 million euros of community money?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mrs Agema says a number of things with which I very much agree. Nepotism is an ugly word at all, also in terms of sound, but is also very bad. The only question is whether we can draw that conclusion now. Mrs Agema has done so and she has her own ideas behind it. I can't just back that up. Why not? Because the full picture is not yet known. I also have the handicap, well, handicap, that I am a member of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I can tell you that a lot of things that seem like this, a lot of timelines and documents, turn out to be very different from what's on paper. That's what you notice when you look people in the eye and look them in the eye again, when you ask them three questions and if someone else asks them three more questions. So I sincerely believe that we should look into Minister De Jonge here, ask questions, I have just asked a number of questions, but I am certainly not the first person today, and then I have to wait and see what is coming up from Deloitte, just to draw a conclusion, with the firm words of Mrs Agema or perhaps with the realistic words I would like to put to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	I understand now that Mrs Tielen is drawing conclusions on the basis of evidence that is incredibly large... I would like to recommend this book, Sywerts millions, of Shop and Vermeulen. I would also like to recommend the article on the De Volkskrant's Wob request by Hendrickx and Kreling, and the work of several other Wob researchers such as Aukema, Van der Tuin and Van der Vegt. I would advise Mrs Tielen to read all that. If she says here, "Mrs. Agema draws conclusions here, when that is not possible at all," then that could be possible. But there is so much evidence that if Mrs Tielen says that to me here, she is not only defiling my integrity, but also that of all those journalists and all those researchers. And of Mr Lambie of RTL, who pushed the microphone under the nose of Minister De Jonge last year, who certainly denied that he was involved in that deal. Wouldn't it be better if the VVD didn't question other people's integrity or that of journalists and scientists, but realized that there was an incredible amount of evidence, with a lot of opposition from the minister's corner, a trial and so on? Wouldn't it be better for the VVD to realize that the boyfriend of the CDA, who was all involved in this so that after the LHC didn't want it, there was a deal, just overplayed his hand here? Wouldn't it be better if the VVD jerked his hands off? Because if the VVD doesn't do that and lets go today at the end of the Hugo de Jonge ride, then he can just go on with everything he did?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	The VVD likes to look critically and factually at the information there is, to weigh and judge on that basis. In her first interruption, Mrs Agema puts the survival of Minister De Jonge, about, on my personal shoulders and then on the integrity of the entire research and journalistic world. I just don't think that's fair. I believe that we should ask questions fairly here as Members of Parliament, debate each other, weigh facts and draw conclusions on that basis. That's how I'm in it. I have tremendous admiration for all the work that investigative journalists have done. I read articles and think: so, they found out nicely; this gives me new information again. I just don't have a hundred percent full picture yet. Maybe I'll never get a 100% complete picture. But I still want something more than I have now. It is Mrs Agema's right to weigh her facts and draw her conclusions, but I do not think it is her right to put all kinds of things on my shoulders and put words in my mouth that do not fit in with a fair debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	I wouldn't put the word "fair" in my mouth if I were you, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	It's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	Can Mrs Tielen indicate what information is still lacking for her before she can draw a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u139	Like I said, sometimes you can read a few documents and think, "Well, here's the deal. Then you read a few other documents and you think: oh, it's something else. And then you talk to two people about it, and then you think, "Oh, it's something else." Deloitte has collected a lot of information, much more than we received yesterday in that letter. I believe that it is 5.5 million documents in total. That will not only be about this mouth cover deal, but about much more, but let's say it's 1 million documents. I have not yet had the time to read and connect them all with each other, let alone to see if there are any patterns in them that are gloomy or favourable to me. So I just want to wait and see the Deloitte investigation, in which all these facts stand out. Then I can weigh it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u140	We are now going to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. Mrs. Agema has something else to say, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u141	But you didn't have a short question, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u142	Very briefly, then, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you for your kindness, Mr. Chairman. Now I'm losing my touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u144	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u145	Otherwise, you'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u146	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u147	Then we have Mrs van der Plas, then we have Mr Van Haga and then we have Mrs Agema. Well, here's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u148	I really only have one question for Mrs Tielen. What should a minister do so that the VVD draws a line and says: this minister can no longer stay? What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u149	That's a very general question. I will not be tempted to make very general statements about this. I think that as a Chamber, we have very clear agreements on how we deal with each other. Over the past year, the word "culture of governance" has often been mentioned. I believe that this has to do with how we are all working to ensure that our democracy is transparent, that people understand what we are doing here and that we do so in balance. People who deliberately deviate from that, we shouldn't have. Yeah, that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u150	Okay, that's interesting. At least that offers something of perspective. It's very simple for BBB. If a minister is lying, if he is not telling the truth or if a minister is not informing the Chamber or not informing the Chamber wrongly, it is for us to say that that minister cannot stay, because that is simply a political mortal sin. I'll ask the question more specifically. If a minister has not told the truth whether the Chamber has misinformed or not, is that reason for the VVD to say to the minister: this minister has to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u151	I have just asked a number of questions, which I think are quite critical, about what Minister De Jonge has done about his involvement. I'm very curious about his answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u153	That is a very general answer to a very specific question. It is, of course, a political mortal sin in this Chamber. I'll ask the question again. Mrs Tielen may also say that she is not going to answer that. She's talking about her own answers. I ask the question again very specifically. Is the fact that a minister is not telling the truth or not informing the Chamber or wrong enough for the VVD to send a minister home?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u154	I repeat what I have just said. We are talking about this debate, so it was not such a general answer. It is about this debate. I have asked this Minister, Minister De Jonge, critical questions and I await his answers. Then you may return with your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u155	Maybe we'll continue on this theme after all. We simply agree on a number of issues. $100 million in taxpayers' money was thrown away from mouth caps that don't work. That is just what Mrs Tielen said in her own speech. Minister De Jonge facilitated this deal. We agree on that, too. He tried, as Mrs Tielen also said, to stay out of the Wob procedures via his private e-mail, in a somewhat shadowy way. And he also lied about that, as Mrs Van der Plas just said. So these four things are settled. Are these four things that are on the table still not enough for the VVD to say: more can come up, but this is enough to send someone home?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u156	First of all, I want to be able to look the Minister in the eye and hear him answer the questions I asked, because I think those questions are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u157	But the VVD has been looking this minister in the eye for two years. It has been known for a long time that something very shady is going on here. The VVD has, of course, already heard all the facts that we probably didn't get to see until much later. Again, my question. These four things are certain and it is a very serious offense. Doesn't the VVD think it's just time to pull the plug?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u158	What insinuation was Mr. Van Haga doing now? What are we doing now? "who probably heard the VVD before." What the hell is that? That is exactly what I think we should stop doing in this Chamber. When we talk about facts, we're talking about facts. If you want to qualify it with beautiful adjectives as "schimmig" or whatever, then that is all your and our right. But Mr. Van Haga's subtlety? I really object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u160	The major disadvantage that Mrs Tielen has is that I have also been part of the VVD Group. So I know exactly how it goes. If I see Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Tielen shooting here now, I think that the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union have already reached an agreement. That's another insinuation; maybe I can turn it into a question. Let me philosophize in the wild: they have already said that Minister De Jonge is apologizing, that the VVD or any party other than a motion of censure or a motion of grief, and that everyone does a puddle and everything remains as it was. So my question to Mrs Tielen is, and it is an insinuation: isn't it true that behind the scenes there is already an agreement on the table? 'Cause these meetings are just taking place. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Van Haga, I think it's... no. Period. No. Period. Also that "I know what it's like"... Also for the people in the public gallery it is then as if this is a Chamber with all kinds of vague loopholes and nasty corners. No! We are here with 150 people and a cabinet, trying to get things done for the people in the country. It would be nice if we were talking about this in an open and sincere way. That is what we call a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u162	That offers a perspective, because the VVD says here now that at the end of the journey, at the end of the day, it is quite possible that Minister De Jonge is no longer a minister. That's different from the answers she's given so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u163	Was that a question to Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u164	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u165	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u166	Well, I thought it was a good observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u167	I didn't hear a question mark. What Mrs Tielen is saying here is exactly what she has just said, namely: I have asked some critical questions, I want to be able to look the Minister in the eye and hear his answers and then I weigh things up. But Mrs Tielen also said: I do not have 100,0% of all information, I also know that I am not going to get 100,0% of all information, but I would like to wait for Deloitte's research to draw substantive conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u168	Sometimes there are things in the paper that don't add up. It's already in the paper that I'm going to file a motion of censure. Of course, I haven't figured that out yet, because I'm a classic MP. I'm gonna give the minister a chance and space to tell his side of the story first. I think that's perfectly normal. Then we'll draw our conclusions. I have a very hard mind that the image that is now there, with all the facts and evidence that has come up, can still tilt to his advantage. The important point is that the national consortium of resources does not want to go into the sea with CDA's Van Lienden, after which all the CDA's will be in position and the deal will be made, apart from the fact that 100 million euros of Community money has been lost. They get a "no," the CDAs come in and the deal comes anyway. My question to Mrs Tielen is this: if Minister De Jonge confirms that image, is it the end of ministerial office or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u169	I would first like to comment on what Mrs Agema started. That is why Mrs Agema deserves to be congratulated. I didn't hear all kinds of threats with motions in her first term either. In my opinion, this is a genuine way of discussing this issue with each other: open and looking for the facts. Mrs Agema's question contains a number of partial conclusions. I am not yet ready to draw it, so my answer to Mrs Agema's question is: I am waiting. Once again, I also think that I really still need information from Deloitte's research, which is 5.5 million documents in order to weigh up what processes have been or have not been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u170	Sorry for the repetition, Mr President, but the question I have already asked is: what does Mrs Tielen of the VVD need at this jumping point? The Landelijk Consortium Utilities doesn't want Sywert in the sea. I don't. CDA's gonna come in, and he's gonna get the deal anyway, apart from those 100 million euros of taxpayers' money. What does she still need in that picture, on which so much evidence is on the table, from Deloitte?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u171	The real connection between them. Mrs Agema mentions two facts, which are not necessarily linked, let alone in a causal context. I really want to understand how that sort of thing went.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. Then we go to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union for her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past few days or weeks, or actually everything about the deal about the mouth caps with Auxiliaries Alliance BV, gives just a sad picture. That starts most of all with the embarrassment of the trust of so many people who thought they were cooperating on a large non-profit order, to help a lot of people in healthcare. But all that turned out to be different. The criminal investigation is ongoing. Today, however, we are not talking about dealing with these abuses, but about the action of the VWS Minister at the time of the conclusion of this deal and in the months thereafter, where, frankly, we are at risk of being caught up in the state-law spaghetti of ministerial responsibility. After all, never before did a minister from trade union K answer for his then portfolio, while in addition he is the minister who is now responsible. That is uncomfortable, not because I do not understand the consideration given by Minister De Jonge, but because it creates a complicated precedent. 'Cause can't a former minister with another wallet for that old wallet be brought to the Chamber? Or does the ruler choose to do so himself? There are all kinds of questions to ask, and I sincerely hope that this is not a precedent but a one-off. Back to the mouth caps. A time of stress, of panic, of a lot of people who, with good intentions, even though sometimes they don't offer anything, of a lot of pressure in the media, where everyone really wanted us to have as many protective equipment as possible as soon as possible, especially in nursing homes, in home care. From that point of view, I fully understand the opportunities offered, including those of my colleagues here who met people who showed something. The fact that there were contacts is understandable, but that is precisely why the question remains when it became clear that this deal was not about a philanthropic foundation but about an e.g... Was that known at the time of the deal? The same applies to the quality of the mouth caps. When was it known it wasn't okay? When did the ministers concerned know that? And when did they share that with each other? Mr. Chairman. The apps show very clearly that Minister De Jonge was familiar with Mr Van Lienden and had contact with him, and vice versa. The Minister also reflected on this in his letter, but I do have a few questions. Why does the Minister reflect on this so late in the day? Has he reflected on that at an earlier point? What motives does he have for that? Why didn't he put his cards on the table as soon as possible? Shouldn't it be characteristic of the way we want to deal with these things that, understanding the fact that mistakes have been made in time of crisis and that things haven't gone as you ideally saw, reflect on them, indicate what your motives are and therefore clean up? Mr. Chairman. Then about the e-mail. It all sounds very human, but frankly it is very stupid, just because of the security that applies to government affairs. I assume the Minister has learned his lessons on that point. I also assume that it is a warning to all of us, because at the same time something went wrong with me yesterday. Sometimes things go wrong with your accounts. But this went a little further. I hope we'll prevent that from happening in the future. Can Minister Helder assure that relevant private e-mails are also involved in the Deloitte investigation? Mr. Chairman. Then let's move on to the investigation. We saw Deloitte's response in the technical briefing. It is clear, comprehensive and careful, but the timetable is very uncertain. How does Minister Helder see that? Will all requests for information made by the VWS Ministry be co-operated? How does the Minister view parts two and three of the investigations? How does that interfere with the parliamentary survey? And why did the Ministry keep this from dealing with the Wob requests for so long, including legal proceedings, and was it then no problem yesterday to bring things out? Mr President, I will conclude. Making mistakes in crisis time we all understand, but do not persist in it; explain it. Then we can also get back to the things we really need at this time. Because these are exciting times, not just this day, but in a much larger context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u174	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u175	I also wonder what exactly Mrs Bikker wants from Minister De Jonge when it comes to the letter he sent us through Minister Helder. Actually, Mrs Bikker says that making mistakes can be done; if you apologize sooner, it would all have been better. But in the letter he sent to us through Minister Helder, I see no excuses. He says he should have been clearer, that there was confusion... So when is Mrs Bikker gonna be okay? When is she going to take over the heart by hand and can Minister De Jonge just stay and do what he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mrs. Agema may be very good at summing up, but now she's failing me. For example, I asked why the Minister revealed that letter yesterday. I honestly do not have the dates above the letter, so I do not know whether that was the day before or yesterday, but it was at least a very late moment, when I assume that the Minister had for himself already made clear what contacts he had with Mr Van Lienden at the time. I asked him about his motives. I don't just ask those questions. I am having an open debate here. I've asked my questions about the choices that have been made. I'm gonna hear the reflection on that. In addition, I have stated that I think it is a complicated debate under state law, but that we are doing so now with this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u177	I actually asked what exactly Mrs Bikker wants from the former Minister of VWS, Minister De Jonge. In the letter he sent to the Chamber, he talks about confusion and says that he should have watched more closely and should have been more complete. I'm sure all that's true, but I don't read a mea culpa or an excuse. What does Mrs Bikker want Minister De Jonge to do later? What does she want to hear from him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u178	I'm not gonna tell you exactly what Mr. Young or Minister De Jonge has to say. Let's keep the responsibilities sharp. I asked my questions. These questions are about exactly what contacts there have been, when it was clear that this was not philanthropic but profitable, and whether they were discussed between ministers. It may also be that this will only become clear in Deloitte research, but I would like to hear the answers from these ministers. I also indicated that I think it's late. So I have my thoughts on that. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. But I am not going to say here: if the minister jumps through this and that hoop, then the Christian Union Group is applauding. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u179	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u180	I really hear a lot of times in the debate that there is quite a big difference between a non-profit and a profit organisation, but let's face it: there are incredibly many non-profit organisations where the drivers earn tons and put in their pockets. So that difference doesn't strike me as sacred. I also think it is important for Mrs Bikker to realise that Mr Van Lienden did not get a deal through the National Consortium Aids. Then a lot of CDAs are gonna push and push, they're gonna take action, and then he's gonna get a deal. Apart from the fact that it has lost EUR 100 million in taxpayers' money and that money has to be returned, this would also have been wrong in a non-profit situation. Because with all other suppliers, who could even deliver proper mouth caps, their deals were cancelled. So I just wanted to ask Mrs Bikker: does she realize that this deal, profit or non-profit, was wrong anyway, because those CDAs were going to arrange it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u181	I have asked questions about the quality of the products for a reason and about when that was clear. I've been asking questions about that. I understand very well that Mrs Agema will come back to this: do you have any idea? Yes, we stand here together as care-speakers also sometimes very grumpy about non-profit institutions where things are not going well; agree. But what has clearly happened here, and we have also seen that with all kinds of companies that have subsequently withdrawn, is that they thought together, with each other, with agency workers and all kinds of things, to work for the good cause, for a society that was on fire, to really help people. And that turned out to be different. That is the situation we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u182	I can very well follow the story of the Christian Union, of Mrs Bikker. I understand that position, too. However, I still find it interesting how Mrs Bikker sees this in the context of the new governance culture that was promised last year. We know the Christian Union as a party that stands for that openness, that integrity and the fact that we are having this open debate here with each other. How does she see this debate today and the information we now have in the context of this new governance culture that has been promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you to Mrs Van Esch for these questions. I attach great importance to the fact that we always show here what our motives are and what cards we have and that they are on the table as soon as possible. If there is an interest because at that time there were still mouth caps to be arranged, then I understand very well that the Ministry in the search wanted first of all to arrange that there were protective equipment. I also understand very well how many data and documents there are incredibly. The fact that you, as a minister, are responsible for that whole thing is beyond question. The fact that you can't quote every document out of your head now is beyond question. These are typical examples of which you say: show openness, show your motives and show what you have encountered in them. I don't ask my questions for nothing. I am asking for a reflection from the Minister on that. I don't do that out of goodwill. I am doing this because I think it is very important that we are watching this with each other in this Chamber. And that's up to this whole room. That's not an opposition/coalition thing for me. This is actually about the relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet. Honestly, I think that's very important to hold on to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u184	I am still curious: when will it be enough for the Christian Union? I'll ask myself that. We know about the history of Rutte III cabinet. The previous cabinet has made mistakes, specifically at the point of withholding information, of not being fair towards the Chamber, of not providing information to the media. Another culture was promised a year ago. Now we're back here, with the same conclusions we can draw. I am curious: when will it be enough for the Christian Union? Nothing changes when we say again here: yes, that went wrong, period. So when is this new governance culture really gonna come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mrs. Van Esch is giving me more power in any case than I have. I'm a member of parliament who controls here. I'm asking the cabinet what happened, what happened and what considerations were made. I want to hear those answers. That's why I'm a Member of Parliament. And then I'll take those roads. That's how it is for me, as a Member of Parliament anyway. We can now sweep everything, everything that has ever happened, into one pile, but then we will not do this debate justice. The ministerial responsibility, as Mrs Van Esch is pushing it, sees the debate you are having here. That's what I'm asking my questions about. I'm not here to review a complete cabinet right now. There are other times for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u187	Finally. Unfortunately, it's a pattern. That pattern is still not being broken. I think it's good for us as Chamber, but even if you're a member of the government, the Christian Union is a part of it. How does the Christian Union feel about it so far? That promise was made by the new government. I'm gonna ask the question one more time. I wonder if Mrs Bikker can answer that: how do you feel about this new governance culture? Are you okay, or are there any steps to be taken? How do you feel about it now, when we are having this debate today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u188	"Mrs Bikker, how do you feel about it?" Well, I'm very clear about this. I think it should have been sooner. I ask the Minister: why so late? And I've asked a lot of other questions. It's very clear. I think that's what you've been through in recent debates. We've done a lot of corona debates together. I'll always be there when I think things aren't right here. I'm asking my questions. That's what happened to this mouthcap deal in the summer of last year, with Mrs. Chicken and Mr. Paternotte. As a Member of Parliament, I think it is genuine: if I do not think it is going well, I have the cabinet to address. Well, you heard me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u189	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two years ago around this time, there was a huge crisis, including in the hospital where I worked. I remember that like yesterday. We were still in the so-called intelligent lockdown back then. While the virus was grabbing wildly, there were poignant shortages of protective equipment. Neighborhood care, disability care and the nursing home were panicking in politics. Protect us, they called out. Also as a Chamber we put a lot of pressure towards the cabinet. We kept hammering on it: put everything on top of everything. But there was almost nothing to get. And luckily, there was a way out. Out of nowhere, someone came up with useful contacts. He claimed that he was able to solve the deficits in one or two weeks, and he didn't. It seemed too good to be true. And it was. It was an outright miscarriage. Although the investigation is still ongoing, this seems to be the worst deal of the corona crisis. Millions of mouth caps were rejected. A lot of them weren't necessary at all. Unfair, exorbitant profits have been made. Mr. Chairman. Even before that deal was concluded, there were several signs on red. The size of 100 million euros for this one-pitter was exceptionally high, but the deal was still made. Officials warned in advance, but the deal was still made. And Van Lienden wasn't trusted by the minister from now on, but the deal was still made. That is why I ask both the Minister for Long-Term Care and the Minister for Housing: how do you look back on this deal? Mr. Chairman. After several questions, including from our group, we have been waiting for almost a year for the results of the independent investigation into this deal. But the research has now gained huge proportions, while the focus would primarily be on this deal with Relief Goods Alliance. There were only three deals of more than EUR 100 million, and this was one of them. So I'm especially curious: how different is this deal compared to the other two big deals? Was there any preferential treatment for Van Lienden? Were there any other terms? Did this deal come up in a different way? That is why I am asking the Minister for Long-Term Care: is it true that only two of these three deals are being investigated and why is that? Can't the research results on these 100+ deals come to the Chamber sooner? Finally, last year, the Minister indicated that these priorities were given priority. Can the Minister give an overview of the advantages and disadvantages of earlier sharing of these research results? Because I think that as a Chamber, we ourselves should consider whether we should get the results sooner. Mr President, finally, to this Minister: how does she view the deals that have been made with JenV? And what if criminal offences are detected by the investigating agency? Then how are you going to act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u191	Please continue. I thought you were finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u192	Almost. Mr. Chairman. Then my questions to the Minister for Housing. I am pleased that he has chosen to attend this debate himself. This is about his personal behaviour and there is a lot of talk about it, with very firm stances, also by this former Minister of Health himself, who are then very difficult to control by us. So it's a good thing he's here. Of course, I also read the letter and the apps that were shared yesterday. First of all, I would like to ask for a reflection on this Minister's own behaviour. I wonder how he looks back on the contact with Van Lienden and whether he was genuinely convinced at the time that this deal had to be made. In addition, I am curious about his contact with officials and whether he has not put too much pressure on him to make the deal a success. Finally, Mr President. I find it difficult to understand that the Minister, until last week, made structural use of his private e-mail, especially since he was the minister responsible for a pandemic, in particular because he needed care. So I ask for further explanations on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u193	Thank you. A few interruptions, first of all Mr Klaver and then Mr Azarkan. Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u194	This is the last party of the coalition to speak. One thing that strikes me is that there is a fairly broad debate on this matter, also on all kinds of issues that are still under investigation and which we do not yet have all the facts of, but on which I can guess the answers: wait for the investigation. What is really happening today is the question: did the Minister properly inform the Chamber? What we have now seen is that all kinds of information has been withheld in the past year. That applies both to Wob requests and to the facts we asked for two weeks or a week ago. That was not possible at the time when it was said 'we cannot meet this question from the Chamber'. How does D66 judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u195	You should not be surprised, since we have been critical of this deal for over a year, and have asked several questions about it as a group. As far as we are concerned, this communication should have come to the Chamber much earlier, much clearer and much more carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u196	Thanks for the answer. But I'd like it to be a little sharper. 'Cause the fact that it could've been better, I think it's pretty weedy. What is going on here is that was said last week by the cabinet: we cannot provide this information. I know that D66 attaches great importance to this openness and transparency. At least, I always think so. They said last week: we are not going to deliver it; that can only be done if the interest of the State is at stake, or if it is an impossible question that we are asking. Then they didn't, now it's being delivered, this week. How does D66 judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u197	With the risk of repeating itself, I would also like to say to this question: it should have been done before, better and more carefully. I would also like to say a few words about the letter. The whole of The Hague, I taste a small, slight instinct for an apology. I am very curious whether the Minister will follow up on this. So yes, I think we are very much in agreement. It is also the role of us as Chambers to be constantly critical. We did, and it certainly should have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u198	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u199	I'm glad you're saying we're in agreement, but I'd like to make sure that's the case. I have also argued in my contribution: this is the old administrative culture at work. This is exactly what happened to the dividend memos. It's exactly the same thing that happened with the supplemental scandal. Information is held back for as long as its own position is at stake. Then they say they're sorry and they send her to the Chamber. Then the coalition parties say: yes, it really should have been better. And a bow around it. That's the pattern we see here. Do you share that with me? Do you agree with me on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u200	I agree with Mr. Klaver that we need to do something about that old governance culture. You've been a part of that for a little longer than I have, so I think you can make a big contribution to changing it. I'm really serious about things having to be different. I am also here as a critical, independent MP. I also think that I should ask questions, that I should check the Cabinet, that we should do the right thing. But once again, as several colleagues have said, there was quite a lot of consensus in the Chamber at the time of the crisis. Everyone wanted the best at the right time. You, for example, said in 2020 with great emphasis to the cabinet: do what and ensure that protection equipment is provided. You, too, increased the pressure tremendously. We have to look very closely at what can be done better, but we were all part of what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u201	Finalizing, Mr. Klaver. Then I will go to Mrs Van der Plas, who was somewhat earlier than Mr Azarkan. I also heard Mrs van der Plas say something in agreement a few times, so I think there will be a nice little bridge to Mrs Van der Plas. First Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u202	I'm getting kind of sad about this. This is exactly what we need to deal with. I started my fucking contribution saying that I understand there's a panic in a crisis. We all said, "Buy those mouth caps, do your best, go after them." I haven't said anything about this case yet. It's the coalition that's constantly working on it. You say here as some sort of debate trick that we agree with each other. I'm testing that. I'm putting what happened here in a wider context of that governance culture. I'm asking if you agree with me on that point and then you're starting to fry: yes, we all have to change. That's not what I asked. Do you see that what is happening here is part of something bigger and that it is not about Hugo the Young or the Minister of Health or the Minister of Living? Do you see that it is a pattern that information is always withheld by the cabinet, just as long as the position of the minister is at stake and that it is only then that it is said: sorry, here is the information. Then the coalition says: it really should have been sooner. And then we go on cheerful. That's the pattern I think I see. You began to say that we agree. My question to you is: do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u203	Once again, I repeat myself. I agree with Mr. Clover. We need to share things, be more transparent, but Mr Klaver is just as much part of that as I am. We have all 150 responsibilities in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mr Klaver no longer has any interruptions, but of course it is total nonsense what Mrs Paulusma is saying here. This is a constant request for information. Constantly. Every time that's blocked by the coalition. That's one. Secondly, Mrs Paulusma goes into the deal with Van Lienden here, but it doesn't matter at all. Because we don't have a report at all yet. She talked about that deal for three or four minutes. These questions are not at all relevant either, because that report is yet to come. I can hear Mrs Paulusma say that it should have gone to the Chamber much earlier. In other words, information has been withheld. Mr Klaver was right to point that out. I put the same question to Mrs Paulusma when I asked Mrs Tielen: when will it be enough? When does D66 say: Listen, withholding information, not telling the truth, is a political mortal sin and we think that a minister should go for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u205	It is a pity that you missed the part of my speech where I was very much concerned about the role of the minister who is here today. I also did not say the words "the withholding of information." I have said that information must be sent to the Chamber more quickly, better and more carefully. I would also like to await Deloitte's research. For us, the question is very important why only one of these three studies was included in that comparison. I would also like to be able to draw my conclusions on this. This has not so much to do with withholding information as with carefully going through this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u206	Then I would also like to have an answer to the second part of my question. When will it be enough? When will it be enough for D66? When does D66 say: boys, after everything that has happened in the past year, the 1 April debate, the lying and twisting about function elsewhere, not informing the Chamber properly during the Afghanistan debacle and a documentary about Kaag showing that D66 has exercised influence... When does it stop? When are we gonna stop this? That is my specific question to Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u207	I would almost like to ask the other way around: when is it enough for Mrs Van der Plas? When does it stop looking for the culprit for everything that's going on here without looking at the content? I'm doing my job here as a Member of Parliament. I want to critically judge this cabinet. You may also appeal to me if I don't do that right. That's my responsibility. We have done so in the last two years without any hesitation. We've been standing here every time with critical questions to the cabinet. I will continue to do so in the coming period, but on the basis of content, facts and research.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u208	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mrs Paulusma seems to forget that it is my job to check and ask questions. I have been mentioned by a party colleague of Mrs Paulusma as a member of the doubt brigade. Yesterday, I said the following in the debate: I am very proud of the fact that I am a member of the doubt brigade. It is my job here to expose things. I don't blame anyone. I just want to know things. Of course I'm critical. I am simply asking that question specifically to Mrs Paulusma. She can say, well, I don't want to answer that. However, she is turning it all around to ask when it will be enough for me. As long as things are going the way they are, the way I've been through it over the past year, it's never gonna end. Never. So again, please answer that question. Or you just say, Mrs van der Plas, I am not going to answer that; I am not in the mood for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u210	I also think it could be a jolly name to be a member of the doubt brigade. In my opinion, this does not fully include the certainty of 'enough is enough'. I await the investigation and its results. On that basis, we draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u211	In reply to Mr Klaver, Mrs Paulusma just indicated that she felt inadequate, immemorial and misinformed. My question to her is whether she has been able to carry out her controlling task on that file.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u212	I don't think I said: I feel wrong, immeasurable and incompletely informed. I said it should be better, more complete and faster. I also sincerely hope that we will learn how to be better, more complete and... Well, that's what the Cabinet has to do. I hope that we will learn how to monitor this more effectively if we ever find ourselves in such a crisis again. So for me, it's also the lessons we're going to learn from the different evaluations. I also said it in my speech, but I think that in the event of a crisis of this magnitude... In the hospital where I worked, could you look back and say, "Was it smart to do that?" With the knowledge of now, we say no, but then we did our best. That's how I look at the information process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u213	I do not think that is the right way to do this. It is not a question of whether the Minister has carried out acts that may not have been so clever afterwards. It's possible. We're gonna talk about that. What matters is whether we have received the right information on time and completely in the state-law relationship between the Chamber and the Minister. My question to Mrs Paulusma is: Is that so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u214	That is what we are going to find out, because that is why we are going to use the research that Deloitte is now doing. I think this research should be completed before the summer. I also referred to it with my "faster, better and more careful." The letter we received yesterday should have been there a lot earlier. This right must not be violated. Whether this has happened in the past period is a conclusion I would like to draw on the basis of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u215	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u216	The investigation has absolutely nothing to do with that. I am bewildered to listen to Mrs Paulusma. The investigation is not about what we are talking about today. We can only do this work in the Chamber if we get the information at the right time, when it is known to the government, if we get that information in time and if that information is correct. I have an example here, because it is about the new governance culture. Then you get these kinds of pieces with black-painted pages. Is this the new governance culture? Can we now say as a chamber that we have been able to do our job? Is this what Mrs Kaag, as leader of your party, meant by "I would do it differently, this is the new leadership"? That's not producing black sheets, is it? That's not gonna hold everything back for very long, is it, Mrs. Paulusma? I'm really talking to you about it. That's not stopping everything, is it? One day before the debate, we get all the apps we have to go through. There are just colleagues who say they haven't been able to read them. That's not the new governance culture, is it, Mrs. Paulusma? You agree with me, don't you? When are we gonna change that around here? Or are we just gonna keep doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u217	It's a lot of questions, I told the chairman. As far as I am concerned, the research has everything to do with it, because that is going to show the coherence: the moment, the timeline, the parties involved, when decisions have been taken. For me, it's about coherence. You mention the black-painted forms and link them to the administrative culture. If communication is made public and there is information that is not relevant to the part that we are talking about, I understand very well that it is being blacked out. I trust that, because this has been done carefully, is also the basis we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u218	Mrs Paulusma cannot continue to hide behind Deloitte's ongoing investigation. We are talking about the attitude of members of the cabinet, about the failure or half-answering of parliamentary questions, about frustrating Wob requests from journalists, about lying to journalists when they ask questions about the involvement of Minister De Jonge in the deal that has been made with Sywert. That's what the debate is about. I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma to step away from her hiding behind the investigation that is still ongoing and simply to judge the situation we are discussing today. That is the Minister's attitude: it is not telling the truth to journalists, frustrating Wob requests and, above all, informing the Chamber half and far too late. Mr Azarkan rightly said that about all the documents we received last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u219	I'm not hiding behind the investigation. That was a response to the question of when something is enough. I replied that I need an investigation to do that. I have put very critical questions to the people who are in trade union K because I have the same concerns as you, so I am very curious about the reflection of both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u220	I am not concerned with the reflection of both ministers, but with the attitude of D66 and how D66 assesses the rot in the culture that prevails in the cabinet. That's all I care about. I want answers to that. How does the D66 Group view the cabinet? That's not new. We have seen for over ten years, led by Mark Rutte, that the truth is seen as an option, an option that you can't put on the table until you can't get rid of it. That is what this kind of debate is about, and that is what D66 should be expressing its opinion on. If the group really stands for that open and transparent governance culture that your leader is always talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u221	I think we agree again, Mr. Hijink, but you're looking at it from a different perspective. I think I've been here with you nights, but also my predecessor Jan Paternotte. We were constantly critical of the government's actions. I also find some of the lack of information, the late transmission, the letter that came yesterday and the tone. That is why I am asking critical questions to the ministers sitting here. I'd like to hear their reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u222	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u223	Now Mrs. Paulusma is doing it again. She says I find some of that, too. My question is: what do you think of that? Do you have a specific opinion on the actions of Minister De Jonge and the other members of the cabinet? You say you like it, but what does D66 think of the rot that we see in the culture that prevails in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u224	Mr. Hijink is not gonna get the answer he might be hoping for. I like the process and the way it went. I've been asking questions about that. That is what I have done in my speech and I am waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u225	Now we go to Mr Klaver and then to Mrs Agema. But first Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u226	A very brief question: what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u227	I think I just answered Mr Hijink exactly the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u228	That's exactly the problem. You didn't answer. You just gave a you-bake to the opposition. You said that the provision of information to the cabinet should be improved, and you should also be involved in this. I do not know how we should contribute to better information for the cabinet, but so far. But it also simply means that if a question is asked here, then an answer is given. You can't come up with an answer like: well, I'm critical of the process and I've now asked those questions. Damn it, you admit there hasn't been any proper information from the cabinet. You are actually saying that Article 68 of the Constitution has been used. Whether we are opposition or coalition, we have here to defend, because it is the position of the House of Representatives. How do you judge that? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u229	I didn't want it to sound like the cabinet's actions were the responsibility of Mr. Klaver. I referred to the call you made several times for a new governance culture. I said about that: we are all a part of that 150. I have now said a number of times, in my speech but also in response to colleagues, what I have problems with, what points I think it should be better and I also expect a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u230	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u231	Finally. I'd really like to read these answers back. You are not answering me. You put words together here about processes and about what's going on. I'll tell you exactly why. You have chosen the defensive line in the coalition: we are waiting for the Deloitte report. That is the line of defence: we are waiting for the Deloitte report, then we are going to judge whether or not the Chamber has been properly informed. This is not what the House of Representatives should do. If you had really thought that, we should not have this debate right now. We asked very specifically not to talk about the whole thing with the masks, but about how the Minister informed the Chamber. That is the scope of this debate. Today we need to be able to assess whether that went well or not. At the end of this debate, we must come to a conclusion on this in all conscience. Now you say we're waiting for the investigation. Then it is clear what agreements have been made on this matter. Please, stop saying it's time for new leadership and a new governance culture. Ask not only sharp questions to the cabinet, to which the cabinet will have to give a good answer, but also answer the questions that come from colleagues here in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u232	I couldn't look myself in the eye if I didn't wait for this investigation. You can blame me for that, but if there is one thing we have learned from each other in the crisis of the last two years, it is this: when it is very difficult and you make hasty decisions, you look back on it with regret. That's not a coalition line, that's how I fill out my work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u233	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan. Then there is another question from Mrs Agema. First Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u234	Mrs. Paulusma, take a sip of water first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u235	It's out!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u236	We're out of water. You've also been there for a while and that goes well with you sometimes you should also give a compliment. If you look at Mr. De Jonge's interference, is your conclusion that he was involved in the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u237	When I read the apps and all the pieces that we all got here at some point, I do ask questions about the degree of involvement. That's what I'm worried about. I'm asking questions about that now. I can't conclude yet whether that's the involvement you're referring to right now, so I'm going to fill it out a little bit. It makes me uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u238	Could the deal have been made without the intervention of Mr. De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u239	That's why I asked for the following during the technical briefing on Tuesday evening. There are three investigations into 100 million, plus that Van Liendendeal is one of them. One of them is not being investigated. So how are we going to compare them? How do they deviate? That's what I just asked in my speech. On that basis, we can judge what went wrong with this deal. I could imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u240	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u241	I am really trying to point out that the coherence of the Minister's actions and the outcome of the investigation is actually not there. We must consider in the Chamber whether the Minister has provided the right information in a timely and complete manner. The shoelaces shoot a little out of my shoes like Mrs Paulusma, who now smiles a little bit, what may say: it could have been more timely, it could have been more complete, it could have been more correct, it could have been more honourable. We don't have that luxury. That's not how it works. You can't be a little bit integrity. As a Chamber, we cannot accept a gradation to the extent that we are informed. Then we say: we were informed a week late, or two weeks, or a month, or a little bit. You can't be a little pregnant, either. With integrity, with the incorruptibility of public administration, that's how it works. Mrs Paulusma, I warn you, I say through the President: let us not make word games of this kind. I also warned against this in my contribution. 'Cause people are watching this and they're horrible about this. Why can we do this in The Hague? Stop this, Mrs. Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u242	I have the same request to Mr. Azarkan. I do not use the words 'a little' and 'a little integrity' and 'half' and 'half'. You didn't hear me say that. I've expressed my concerns. I have asked questions about the process we are entitled to and of which we are now... I'm just looking for the right words. We will also have to draw the right conclusions in connection with this study, because we will not agree. And I didn't use the word "bit." Integrity is one hundred percent, not half to half.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u243	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Agema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u244	I have one more substantive question. It's about what Mrs Paulusma just said about the black coating of the pieces we got yesterday. I would also like to be able to trust that this has been done in accordance with the rules, but I would like to present something strange to Mrs Paulusma. For example, on 21 March we see that the p.a. from the minister writes, with blackmail: "Oh yes, dot, dot spoken, but it was not at home. So I asked him to call you in the morning." We'll see this after the deal. "Puntje, tip: Hugo understood that Martin advised him to call Sywert." Then here's the next thing, from April 29th, even after the first deal, so for the second, ricocheted deal. "Martin van Rijn: dot, dot called." I'm getting a bit of a weird idea about that. After all, we don't know who called who. But when, for example, that was the minister, because he was already at home, we could have known that, right? That didn't have to be blacked out, did it? Does Mrs. Paulusma share with me the view that it is quite crazy that every time someone calls someone, one of the two people is left out, so we don't know who called who?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u245	I do not share that view. I trust that the procedure used to share this type of document will be followed correctly. There's just rules for what's or isn't going to get wiped out. So I have to be able to assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u246	I'd like to assume that, too. Well, perhaps Minister Helder will be able to explain this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u247	I was out of the debate for a while. I'll come back and see that big you-bowls from the coalition are getting started towards the opposition over the new governance culture. But we are talking in this debate about whether the Minister has provided the right information to the Chamber. As long as Mrs Paulusma and I are here in the Chamber, we already have problems with that and we are actually talking about nothing but a lack of information. We are again having a whole debate here today because we have not received that information. I hear Mrs Paulusma say: I feel uncomfortable about this too. Can you explain the inconvenience a little further? Can you explain why that makes you uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'm mostly uncomfortable because I'm constantly being accused of being the opposition you-baking. A little in line with Mrs Bikker's words: I have the open debate very high. As far as the words I use about an open administrative culture are concerned, all I have said about this is that we are all part of it. I like to see my discomfort answered by the people who are now in trade-k.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u249	I understand that you have that inconvenience, because we all have it here. That's why we're here. This inconvenience leads to suspicion here again, and suspicion leads to lack of trust. That trust is the basis of our democracy. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u250	Yes, I agree with Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mr Dassen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u252	Then I'm wondering something. If you understand that this leads to suspicion and to a lack of confidence, I think that is the question that is on the table here today. You will then have to consider today on the basis of the Minister's answers on how we proceed with this. We have all seen and we can all underline that the lack of information was there. That is what you must also consider. So you cannot hide behind Deloitte's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u253	I'm not hiding behind anything. I would like to point out the importance of cohesion. Just like you, I'm waiting for answers from box K. And yes, democracy benefits from trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u254	Thank you very much. Then we'll go to Mrs... Excuse me, there is one final question from Mr Azarkan, I think. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u255	Mrs Paulusma has, of course, read all the documents, as other Members of Parliament have. Can Mrs Paulusma indicate what, in her opinion, is the reason why a minister whose portfolio it is not, intervenes and in this case links someone who wants to offer something to a number of top officials and sends them a number of times? What is the Minister's consideration of doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u256	I think that's a very good question. I have also put it to the Minister in my speech, so I am looking forward to his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u257	Yes, but you agreed in the coalition, at least Mrs Van den Berg, that that was because of two things. That was pretty much the defense line. I take it from this that you've forgotten something now. The minister felt pressured. That's what you've been able to read. The minister didn't want to be attacked in the media. Those weren't media, because Van Lienden didn't go anywhere until May and this happened in April. Then he only tweeted a few times. He's sending over those tweets, too. Do you agree with me that the reason for this is that he himself says that he wants that seller, Sywert van Lienden, to come in and actually be close to him? Is that what you're getting out of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u258	I've lost you for a while. My apologies. What was your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u259	I'm gonna repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u260	Not the whole story, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u261	No, it's tricky, too. I understand that, too. My question to you is: if you have read all the pieces...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u262	Well, it's not difficult...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u263	It does help if the questions can be shorter and more concrete. That also helps behind the speaker chair to give an answer more easily. I appeal to you to skip the introduction and ask specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u264	I'll do it in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u265	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u266	In Mrs Paulusma's opinion, what is the reason why a minister whose portfolio it is not, orders a senior official to contact someone who has approached him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u267	What I have thought several times in the run-up to this debate... I'm also curious how the Minister will respond to what I'm saying. I would have liked the Minister to feel a little less pressure from the media and to have attracted a little more pressure from the Chamber. That is why I am asking a number of critical questions. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. But that I feel an inconvenience, that's what we share.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u268	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u269	What exactly is that inconvenience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u270	Some sort of slipping is being sought: the coalition has not managed to keep the law. I've said what I find uncomfortable. The fact that the Minister felt the pressure from the outside more than inside is very uncomfortable. There's gotta be another way. I would very much like to hear the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u271	Trust is important, says Mrs Paulusma. But control is often even better. A year ago, together with your colleague Jeanet van der Laan, we carefully reviewed the VWS budget as rapporteur. Then we came up with a number of motions, precisely to strengthen the control function. There was, for example, a motion on extra financial supervision. I have just mentioned another motion: involving the General Court of Auditors, an integral covid report. To our disappointment, they were all rejected by D66. Why did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u272	I can't remember the motions like that. What you did with my colleague at the time was very useful, because there was also a publication of the Court of Auditors on the VWS budget. I don't know what motions this is about. We always do that very carefully and based on the content, so probably we didn't find them the best motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u273	Thank you very much. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u274	Thank you, President, dear inhabitants of the Netherlands and, of course, the people in the public gallery. Fourteen MPs have preceded me today and have already asked many questions about the now infamous mouth cover deal. I agree with those questions. It's been a deal where a filthy stench hangs around from grayery, lying, blabbermouth, neighborhood politics, backrooms, turn ass, arrogance, smoke curtains and power. Under the guise of charity millions were made from the pandemic and all this about the backs of the hardworking, tax-paying and then terrified people in the Netherlands. People who were driven apart last year by the former US Secretary of State and the Prime Minister. Society was split up. People were turned against each other. Unrecoverable damage in society was done by rewarding people with green ticks with a visit to the café and labeling people without green ticks as pariahs and taking away fundamental rights to move freely in society. This terrible division has also been stone-coldly denied by the former US Secretary of State. Let's not forget that, too. Mr. Chairman. How ironic: the many black pages that rolled out of the printer yesterday when we got the whatsapps that were exchanged by the former VWS minister on the mouth cap deal, symbolize this black page in Dutch history. The black page where people were played out step by step against each other, where steps by step freedoms were restricted and where we ended up step by step in a society that no one would have thought could ever happen. Back to the mouth cap deal. The behaviour of former CDA member Sywert van Lienden is downright disgusting, but the role of the former minister of VWS is at least as reprehensible. On 9 June 2021, he denied being involved in the oral mask deal here in the Chamber. It is now clear that he even played an important role in the deal. He urged his secretary-general to contact Sywert, and the app interviews showed that he himself had had direct contact with Sywert. It is clear that the former Minister of the United States of America has misinformed the Chamber. In addition, Mr. De Jonge felt it necessary to communicate via his private e-mail, despite all the urgent advice not to do so. The former Secretary of State of VWS just didn't care about that. According to Mr. De Jonge, he did this because the work e-mail is so tricky, "because he has to change his password all the time." What total nonsense! Thinking that people believe this is a gross insult to the intelligence of everyone in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I've been here exactly a year. This year, citizens' confidence in politics and government has been shattered over and over again. There's nothing we learn from the past here. How many "sorry" have flown through the hall? How many active memories have been eliminated in this Chamber? How many times has it been said here that I should have done this differently? That is the biggest crisis we face in the Netherlands; the confidence of the Dutch in us, the politics, has fallen to zero. I understand that perfectly. The ease with which we as representatives of the people, and with that the people in the Netherlands who elected us, are lied to, dismissed and offended, is unprecedented. We can table motions of mistrust until we weigh one, but I can already tell you how this day ends: the former Minister of VWS said sorry, the former Minister of VWS supposedly went through the dust, the former Minister of VWS grabs his bag, walks out of the Chamber and goes home, and tomorrow he will just report back to the Ministry of Housing. In short, we drank a glass, did a puddle and everything is back to the way it was. That is why I only have one question for the former VWS Minister, and that concludes: what does the former VWS Minister actually think? Does he really think he should resign? I would very much like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u275	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then we'll go to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u276	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are having this debate today, although I hope that we will also be looking at the next few weeks, which has resulted in an excess mortality rate of 40,000 people during the corona crisis. Did we do the right thing? Did we spend the 100 billion well? 'Cause we've put a huge hold on the greenhouse. We've put a lot of pressure on society. I see that a country like Sweden has shown a somewhat larger policy review on the basis of which you can talk about the main lines. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the deal we're talking about today. In March and April 2020 there was a severe shortage in nursing homes, in home care and in general care. The OVV is talking about a silent disaster in nursing homes. And I too have done my best to see how masks could get here as quickly as possible and how the burden on those masks could be reduced for everyone, because this could be done through the European scheme. Mr. Chairman. What we are talking about today is how the Chamber was informed about this. I had hoped that the Deloitte report would be ready, because this way we will have a debate on it twice or three times. This cabinet promised, just over a year ago in a debate on 1 April, a new governance culture. Article 68 of the Constitution calls for all the information requested by the Chamber. The information we received from the government the day before yesterday is the information that was probably provided to Deloitte in September or October. Why wasn't it sent to the Chamber then? Wob requests have been made and there are periodic penalty payments. Why has the government paid periodic penalty payments and how many have been paid so far? And did the Cabinet agree to pay periodic penalty payments, as it did in the childcare supplement scandal? 'Cause then we don't have a new governance culture, so we're gonna keep looking into this. And then we keep spending our expensive time on this instead of the rest of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u277	Thank you. There is first an interruption by Mr Van Haga and then by Mrs Tielen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u278	I know Mr Omtzigt as a very honourable Member. He's often a great example to me, and I'm trying to do my Chamberwork in the same line. That is also a bit because we are both against will and thanks splitters. Mr Omtzigt got 330,000 votes and I got 241,000. Mr Omtzigt has five seats on his own, I have four seats. Nevertheless, Mr Omtzigt only has 120 seconds to do his story. In it he has to deal with the mask deal but also refute a number of accusations to his own person. That is almost impossible, so I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt if he can make his role clear once and for all. I think he should be given room for that. I think we can all see that Mr Omtzigt had nothing to do with that in any way. But I like to hear that from his own mouth. I'd like to give him time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u279	I would like to know what specific question this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u280	Well, a number of accusations have just been made, for example by Mrs Agema. They're about interfering with this deal. I would like to give Mr Omtzigt the opportunity to say here: was there any interference? Have there been any contacts with Sywert van Lienden? Did that also influence this deal? Maybe he only needs one answer for that, or maybe he needs two minutes, but I think it's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u281	I don't think my contacts with Sywert van Lienden have affected this deal. I heard two things. It was about the VAT. I have here, for example, a motion from Van Haga and Baudet from April 2020, which calls on the government to encourage the wearing of masks. That's the background to the time frame we're talking about. At that time, there was still import charges on personal protective materials and 21% VAT was levied on them. Yeah, I've been asking Chamber questions here, and I've been working to make it easier to import those things and get the VAT off. If you get that VAT on an account, I'm going to add that; you know that as an entrepreneur and the 21% change to 0%, then the customer will benefit. It also played against the following background. At that time, no mouth caps were delivered to nursing homes, or mouth caps were delivered, but there was a directive that did not allow for a mouth cap when someone in a nursing home came to a corona patient for a contact of less than five minutes. Many of those people now have long covid, and it has led to a lot more infections. It was clear to me that at that time we needed more masks, just like the rest of the Chamber, which asked for them very strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u283	I think that's a very clear answer. I'd like to make one thing right. Of course, I once filed that motion asking for masks. Yeah, everybody's laughing now. Of course, it is not the case that we have been in favour of people outside hospitals and nursing homes and outside dentists and surgeons wearing mouth caps. However, we have looked at ways of keeping society open and not going into lockdown, for example by setting such a cover deal. That's quite another thing than being insinuated here. So I would like to distance myself from the fact that we would have been in favour of wearing masks, because that is absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u284	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u285	The motion states: "Wherever widespread use of mouth caps at a later stage can speed up the lifting of the lockdown, the government calls for the wearing of mouth caps to be encouraged." That is a motion of 8 April 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u286	We go to Mrs Tielen van de VVD, and then to Mrs Paulusma and Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u287	Last Tuesday's Volkskrant article contained something I couldn't believe. It said, "Ontzigt doesn't want to open things up himself." Knowing Mr. Omtzigt always pleads for transparency and openness, I could hardly imagine that this is actually a fact. So my question to Mr. Omtzigt is whether he's willing to make all his communication around this deal public, so we can watch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u288	I am a little surprised that we have to say exactly what needs to be done here as a Member of Parliament, but I am trying to tell you exactly what I have done. I have argued in favour of a lower VAT rate on mouth caps and I have argued in favour of stopping import charges. There were good reasons for this, because the import levies go directly to the European Union. The low VAT rate was made possible by the European Union, because if it can't, it cannot. France had already implemented this and Italy was working on it. I thought it would make sense to do the same here. I have advocated behind and in front of the scenes that this should be done, and also in the customs field. Two, this wasn't until after this deal was closed. So I assumed there was a shortage of mouth caps. I'm talking about death. That means 2,000 extra funerals a week at the height of the pandemic, half of which are from nursing homes. I assumed this was a non-profit case. And this was after the first purchase was done, so I assumed the quality was in order. That's why I said government, do you see if this makes any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u289	My question was actually whether Mr. Omtzigt was willing to share all his communication in front of and behind the scenes, as he calls it, so that we can judge it on our own. My observation is that Mr. Omtzigt actually says, "Well, no."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u290	I would like to discuss this, but I find it very special that you are now asking a member of the opposition for this, while the coalition has 20,000 conversations behind the scenes. I'll give you exactly what communication there has been. That's why I'm here to give you answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u291	I start with a compliment: I have great respect for how Mr. Omtzigt always fights for justice. I also see what that does to you. You are in favour of transparency, for "everything public and public." I was also going to read in for today's debate. That's when I ran into your name a lot. I'd like to hear it from you, because then we'll know what's going on. It read part of it as if you were a pass-through hatch. But I also read that you have been to the Tower for this mouthcap deal, that you have had contact with several rulers via app, email. So I hope you can give me some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u292	I just told you I've been to the Tower. I can also tell you exactly why I made that appointment. It had come to my attention that here in Leiden vaccines were produced by HALIX of the AstraZeneca vaccine. That started in April and those vaccines were finished that summer. I said "I'll give you this lead," just like I sent some other leads from other companies to the p.a., like many people have done here, Baudet even just publicly. For that reason, I asked the Prime Minister: will you look into it? In that conversation, I also said, "What happened to those mouth caps? Apparently, there's another offer." I didn't decide if they bought in at the time, but I'll give you the background you yourself outlined on this case. That background was a great excess mortality and also in April the government's statement that there was still a considerable shortage of mouth caps. So I asked, how can this scarcity be, when everyone around me says that this scarcity doesn't have to be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u293	It has already been said by several colleagues in the Chamber: everyone had good contacts or good ideas. But I also said it in my first interruption: I always admire you for your openness and fighting for transparency. If you have done nothing more than share leads, then for Deloitte's research that communication can be made public, so that we can check it out, so that we know from each other when we talk about transparency and information that we share with each other, the only thing you did in the Tower was sharing leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u294	Yes. And if Deloitte comes to me, I'll be part of it. Doesn't that seem clear to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mrs Paulusma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u296	I shall put the question very briefly. So there's no problem for you in making the communication about the leads public, or perhaps more than just those leads you've had over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u297	If they are made public, they shall be made public. I think that's very clear. But I find it strange that you are going to search the mailboxes or the cases of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u298	I get the impression that Mr Omtzigt's line of defence is not entirely correct. On February 10, our entire stock of protective equipment was sold to China. Shortly afterwards it was carnival and there was a total explosion of corona in the Netherlands. The panic about the protective equipment and the mouth caps started then. That has been a very intense period, in which many very good, dear people have wanted to do things, but also in which the villains have surfaced. I miss Mr Omtzigt's story that on April 14th we were already a little further in time already 75 million mouth caps were in there and that at that time was enough for everyone and also for another six months in order. That's where the crux actually is. CDA'er Van Lienden is Mr Omtzigt's party mate. Both wrote to the party program, both were well acquainted with each other and probably also friends, I read in the book Sywerts millions. Yet at that time, while he has been rejected by the independent National Consortium Resources... There are all CDA's in position, including the minister and his p.a., all of them from the CDA, and the sg. He gets his deal, so that 100 million and 40 million mouth caps deal. And then it's... that's clearly on this tweet and this picture...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u299	I don't see it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u300	That's you, isn't it? Mr. Overzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u301	Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u302	"Today visiting Auxiliaries.nl and Sywert; impressive how millions of mouth caps will be imported within weeks." By the way, they weren't there yet. So that was April 24th. Mr Omtzigt has been there for hours. He talked to Van Lienden for hours. The next day, five days after that, he takes Van Lienden's plan with which he wants a second deal, under his arm to Rutte, into the Tower. He's gonna leave it there, too. Thank God Martin van Rijn then stopped it, I now understand from the pieces that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u303	What question do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u304	My question is whether Mr Omtzigt actually realizes that he was just part of that CDA-friendliness policy towards CDA'er Van Lienden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u305	I've tried to say it a few times now. There was a deficit at the time. Let me take a look at Minister Helder, who was President of ActiZ at the time. At that time, we still had a directive which assumed that even for the provision of small items you did not have mouth caps. So, as far as I'm concerned, there was too little use. That is also what Minister De Jonge, then Minister of VWS, declared in the Chamber in mid-April. I only asked Rutte after that first deal, only after I assumed it was right: how come there are still not enough mouth caps to be used, while, for example, there seem to be more than enough available here and in other cases? That is the question I asked, against the background of the contacts I had at the time. Would I do that again? No, not the second one. The first one was. I would definitely do that VAT cut again. I'm really glad we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u306	That huge anger that there was because the people in the nursing homes, in home care and in community care didn't get mouth caps, I share. That's what pissed me off at the time. It was long and wide known that corona mainly spread by breathing each other's breath. But that's not the jumping point. At that time there were 75 million in pilots in the Netherlands. At first everything was sold, but in the meantime it had come back. With this 75 million, people in nursing homes, community nursing and community health care could also have been given mouth caps. The fact that they didn't do that is outrageous. But my point is that this person, this CDA man, this Sywert of Lienden came into the picture, and that all those other people, for example, that Haarlem organization that started a lawsuit today against the State, had excellent mouth caps. His deal ended on the same weekend Van Lienden got his deal, just like that. We don't know all the ins and outs about it. That's all we need to find out. But they weren't the only ones. There were hundreds of people signing up with all kinds of deals. They could arrange mouth caps and had connections, but they didn't get a deal, and Sywert van Lienden did. Then that deal was closed and you wanted another deal. Then Pieter Ommzigt, then still from the CDA, wanted another deal. He was trying to unhook it. He laid down a plan with the Prime Minister at the Tower. That's what my question was about. Has Mr. Omtzigt sufficiently realized that he was part of the CDA's neighborhood politics at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u307	I did so with the following intention: because it was not said at that time that there were enough mouth caps. I asked the Prime Minister why. Again, like everyone else here and like a number of large companies, I indeed assumed that this was non-profit. It wasn't. If I had known that, I wouldn't have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u308	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u309	Finally. We all know that there are many non-profits who still make tons of money. So that's not really a good argument either. Look, 100 million euros have been lost in taxpayers' money. We have to get that money back, and we're all very sorry about that. But this CDA took precedence over all the other organizations because all the other organisations didn't have all those wheelbarrows from the CDA. It was in a formal chamber on April 14th that those 75 million mouth caps were inside. And of course it was also CDA Hugo de Jonge who, in the debate on 15 April, made the suggestion as if there was still panic. So I still get that. But in the end I ask whether Mr Omtzigt realizes that he was part of the CDA, which formed all kinds of wheelbarrows for this person, for Sywert van Lienden of the CDA, co-member of the party programme committee, and that others, who did eventually have proper mouth caps, were fishing behind the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u310	I assumed I was passing the leads. And I was hoping that the best of them would be selected by the National Consortium Tools. That was my intention. That was the background to what happened. And it wasn't that cozy in that coalition at the time. At the beginning of March I was accused by the VVD group, which is now asking very nice questions, of asking too many questions about corona because there was not so much going on. I was really worried about what happened in those nursing homes. That's why I asked what happened there. I didn't care where they came from. I also have some other leads on the p.a. And I did it on purpose because I thought I'd help with that. I did the same at the time with the fact that vaccines were produced here, vaccines that were eventually exported to the United Kingdom, which could start the vaccination campaign months earlier, because they were not acted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u311	Thank you. Another interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u312	I have deliberately tried to do so, in the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u313	Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u314	Mr President, one more thing. I also assumed it was non-profit, including the salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u316	Let me ask you a quick question... what's still bothering me a little bit? Perhaps Mr Omtzigt can help me. It wasn't this minister's wallet. Can Mr Omtzigt indicate what is the reason why Mr Van Lienden ended up with this minister and not Mr Van Rijn?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u317	I don't know how to report that. I think people are making contact. Just as a number of people seek contact with parliamentarians, a number of other people will contact directors at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u318	I find it really shocking to see how the coalition is suddenly going to act as a sort of inquisition towards Mr Omtzig, when, like many others, he has tried to do the right thing. Of course, a crucial difference is whether Mr Omtzigt, or any other MP in this Chamber, has been in the position, even at the time, to make deals worth EUR 100 million, with anyone else. That is, of course, quite a crucial distinction between the position of a member of parliament and the position of a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u319	Do you have a question for Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u320	I have a question for the coalition parties. If she's so terribly critical...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u321	Mr. Hijink, that's not interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u322	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. If they demand such critical openness from Mr Omtzig, they must also demand that openness from the cabinet. Because if they did, then perhaps this debate would be about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u323	Thank you. Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u324	There's something I can say about that. I get that remark. And I hope that the control that is taking place here in the Chamber towards me is going to happen in the same way towards the government. I'm looking at a number of people. I notice that some of the interruptions take longer than the speaking time I have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u325	I agree, because we all see that happen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is about the notorious mouth cover deal and a lie by Hugo de Jonge. But this debate is a diversion, a smokescreen. The infamous mouth cover deal we're talking about right now, from Sywert, is about 20 million euros. He was able to put that in his pocket, but billions of euros were wrongly tendered, as we said during the budget debate last year. Billions of euros, because the procurement rules were repealed last year. There was perhaps something to be said for that at the beginning, when there was, of course, a huge crisis surrounding the purchase of aid, but we know from a reliable source that that crisis was already over by the summer. In this way, the Ministry continued non-contracting, avoiding the procurement procedures. That went through that consortium, the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries. It's been mentioned before. That turned out to be one big black box that we don't really know about. We don't know which parties are in it. We don't know what deals have been made. The fact that that could have existed, that it was established, is actually the real big problem. Many parties have been able to enrich themselves in this way. Yeah, Sywert's one of them, but also Bunzl, for example. That's a company that supplies goods. That even brags about it in his annual report: we made good money from the corona crisis. Mediq, which was a central spider in the web, is another. That's why it's so important to get everything over the table. They continued, even after the summer. They had a credit card from VWS. That had a purchase obligation. So they've continued to buy. That is why we now have far too many reliefs. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the Minister prepared to do everything in his power to get above water, as far as possible, what happened in that LCH? That's what we're really worried about. This has to do with transparency. Another point we are concerned about in relation to the assessment of the corona crisis, which we are now doing in part, is the trouble that the government and the Chamber have with criticism. Mr Omtzigt said it very well in his speech: I asked too many questions. You already have a lack of transparency and then criticism is also a problem. Mr Van Haga came forward once, and then the Minister for Health said: you cannot say; you cannot say; that is a danger to public health. The Minister also said: critical doctors I spit on their hoops. Mrs. Kuik, who is now critical, even wanted to deprive doctors who are critical of their BIG registration. We're talking about the governance culture. If you link a total lack of transparency to printing criticism out of the debate, then of course you get maladministration, then you get corruption. That makes perfect sense. Last year, as a FVD, indeed in cooperation with D66, we tabled a number of motions to try to attract the reins, at least to allow the General Court to conduct the investigation, to put VWS under enhanced financial supervision. It was all rejected by this Chamber by a large majority. There are only a few parties who have voted in favour of this. In our view, the Chamber also has a great deal of butter on its head. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. As a forum for democracy, we want a real debate on a real issue in which Minister De Jonge can answer for the billions that have been wrongly tendered instead of this "Barbertje should hang" debate on just one dubious million-dollar deal in which the call for tenders has been cheated. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u327	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-07-tweedekamer-3.u328	I'm suspending the sitting until 3:00 p.m., including lunch break.
