ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the debate on the working methods of NCTV. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way. I would like to meet with the spokesmen: four questions or comments to each other and six to the ruler. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf van D66. Furthermore, Mr Azarkan is going to leave the debate in the meantime because of private circumstances. He will then be replaced by Mr Van Baarle. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. What really makes the Netherlands safer? As a Member of Parliament, I always want to put that question at the heart of the matter. Today we are talking about the working methods of the NCTV. It's not the first time. The House always expresses indignation at the almost intelligence work of the NCTV, after which a minister lists what the NCTV does well. Let's try to avoid that today. The NCTV has a number of important tasks: national crisis coordination, monitoring and securing the system and developing counter-terrorism policies. This debate is about the tasks which the NCTV has not been assigned, but has taken on board. In particular, this concerns the independent investigations of people and organisations. Almost all the abuses that have come to light have to do with this. The question is what this activity contributes to our security. Mr. Chairman. "The NCTV is not and should not be an intelligence or security service," said Minister Grapperhaus a year ago, a year ago, in which almost weekly new revelations were made about an NCTV that was suspiciously acting as an intelligence service by encouraging municipalities to have undercover agents investigate mosques, by tracking people online with fake accounts and wrongly labeling various organisations and even politicians as extremists. I would therefore like to begin by asking what the Minister's views are on this matter. Does she recognise that this should not have happened? I expect to get a full yes from the Minister. After all, that was also the answer of the judge in the cases where this occurred. In that light, the new bill is all the more remarkable. The NCTV was caught driving 100 kilometers per hour within the built-up area. The Minister's solution is to build a freeway. But in a rule of law, the government should follow the law and not the other way around. With the bill, NCTV will be allowed to conduct its own investigations into individuals and organisations. But why is that? What can the police, the D.A. and the intelligence and security services not do now? What should the NCTV do? D66 does not see that need. That is why my appeal to the Minister: is she prepared to amend the bill in such a way that it will not be possible for NCTV to carry out its own research into and collect information about individuals and organisations? I'm considering a motion on this point. We often see that it goes wrong with the government when powers are not clearly limited. "I deliberately chose not to settle anything. That's nothing but whining," said a top official at the NCTV's cradle. Then it's waiting for things to go wrong, especially in the security domain. The head of the AIVD, Erik Akerboom, also warned during the round table: "The intelligence of the AIVD must reach the cabinet immediately and unfiltered." Threat images may lose value if it is no longer clear which information comes from the services and which of the NCTV. Mr. Chairman. That brings me back to the question: what makes the Netherlands safer? From an NCTV monitoring MPs on Twitter or an AIVD following convicted jihadists? It's obvious to D66. Let the NCTV stop with quasi intelligence work, precisely so that we can use its expertise where it contributes to our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u4	This is a clear statement by Mrs Van der Werf. I can also hear her where she says the NCTV shouldn't go too far. But does Mrs Van der Werf also see the added value of NCTV in the security domain? I also have to think of her own motion, in which she asks to ensure that municipalities are well aware of what they can do with right-wing extremists or whatever in their congregation. So does Mrs Van der Werf also see the added value of the NCTV?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u5	I'm sure I can see that. The NCTV has a number of coordinating tasks and as far as we are concerned it can also continue to do so. But we do not think that the NCTV should carry out independent research, because I think that our services can do that very well. We don't need a third club that's gonna do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u6	I would like to thank Mrs van der Werf for this answer. By the way, I share this view with D66. But what surprises me is this. I read, "A law that doesn't give that image." I also read from a fellow party member who said, "This law is never gonna make it." So Mrs Van der Werf is prepared to look at how this law should take shape in such a way that the NCTV can do the job it has to do, which you just said he does, in a good way, because now we are in a situation where the NCTV simply can't do anything, not even the things we agree on that he should be able to do well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mrs Michon knows D66 as a constructive party. That's how we look at it. However, I do believe that there is an important difference between coordination and analysis tasks, and so I see the need for legal competence for these two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u8	I endorse D66's argument. We had this discussion last year. We didn't have that law back then. So we're largely in agreement. I tabled a number of amendments to the bill yesterday. At the same time, I doubt that we will be able to amend this law properly and I wonder what that is really necessary for. Or should we start over and start a fundamental discussion about the tasks and working methods of the NCTV? So this law should actually be repealed and we should start again. How does Mrs. Van der Werf see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u9	That's a good question. I was actually going to listen to the Minister's answers today and then look very closely at where the problem lies. I have the feeling that the essence of the problem is that the NCTV is now conducting its own investigation. That is what we are saying now: we do not want it anymore. But I do think that when dealing with the law we should look at exactly how we are going to do that. I have seen Mr Van Nispen's amendments, and I am taking them with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u10	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, in the praiseless podcast De Vollings' and Van der Wolp's voices, this minister complained that the Chamber too often faces cabinet members with mistrust. But of course that mistrust does not fall out of the sky. That mistrust is because, in this case too, the Chamber was misinformed and incompletely informed by the previous minister, and the current minister who bypasses incompleteness through agile acrobatic manoeuvres and tries to cover them up under a dust layer of official language. The NCTV has demonized in secret and illegal political parties such as the PVV and political leaders such as Mr Wilders in reports. These malicious reports were widely distributed in the Netherlands and many policy makers in the Netherlands took those reports into account. But it didn't stop there. The NCTV shared these dirty fake analyses, in which PVV's "brown and black shirts" were made, also with foreign intelligence services. What a shame. Because of the NCTV, PVV politicians are now classified as state-dangerous abroad. The NCTV tried to turn PVV politicians into hunted game until they were abroad. Let me give you two concrete examples. According to an illegal analysis by NCTV, the PVV would increasingly distance itself from the far right. The PVV, as the NCTV lied, would allow right-wing extremists to attend a meeting in Rotterdam. In addition to the fact that NCTV was not allowed to carry out this analysis, this analysis bears witness to the incompetence of the NCTV. The PVV did not hold a meeting during that period. And perhaps even more important: the PVV would rather lift than engage with left or right extremists. The PVV held a demonstration in Rotterdam, on the public road. On that public road there were thousands of enthusiastic PVV's. And among those thousands of fans there were probably some wrong people, extremists from left or right-wing houses that we as PVV have nothing to do with. We as PVV do not check who is on the public road. The NCTV knows that. To accuse the PVV of getting involved with the extreme right is serpentic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u12	Before proceeding, there is an interruption by Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u13	Do I hear that Mr Markuszower complains about the illegal or illegal act of the NCTV?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u14	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u15	That is good, because I tabled a motion a while ago in which I said: 'Considering that NCTV operated partly without legal basis, no supervision was exercised, and the working methods and actions of NCTV were outside the law, the Minister asks the NCTV to operate directly only within the legal framework and to ensure that the NCTV does not act in violation of the law'. What's my surprise? The PVV voted against! You've just given permission for this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u16	That motion came after those facts had taken place. I may not admit it often, but DENK apparently had a good motion at the time. But on the basis of the wrong information given by the Minister to this Chamber, I gave the judgment that we would vote against it. Now, after all the Wob requests and after all the information has come out, I see that the Minister has simply informed the Chamber incompletely. Indeed, it was not only illegal for the NCTV to have followed that; it is also about the qualifications and judgements they gave about, for example, the PVV, and also about DENK. Maybe they were right about DENK. They weren't right about us, but that doesn't really matter. On the basis of the fact that NCTV has also followed politicians and given bad qualifications to PVV, for example, we now come to the conclusion that they have lost the credit on that part. So if that motion were to be tabled today, I would have given a different voting opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u17	The strength of democracy is that we exchange arguments with each other and can occasionally move into others. I accept Mr Markuszower's compliment. He said it was a good motion and that he himself gave the wrong advice. But he's actually saying something else. Mr Markuszower is actually okay with it, as long as it is illegal and it is outside the law that the NCTV is dealing with others. It was often about mosques and Muslims. But if it's about his party, if it hurts himself, then it can't. That's a little hypocritical, Mr. Markuszower, or at least you'll measure with a double measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u18	No. At the time, on the basis of the information provided by the previous Minister to the Chamber, we gave the NCTV the benefit of the doubt, namely that the NCTV was able to handle that responsibility prudently and that the "Single Analysis', as the NCTV calls it, had added value. But we now see that NCTV has not handled it prudently at all and has abused that power. Once again, Mr Azarkan van DENK's motion at the time was correct, but we assumed the good faith of the previous minister and therefore had a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u19	Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u20	Then I also come to compliments fishing, because I also have last year, even if I say so myself,...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u21	There's a limit, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u22	Oh, sorry. I, too, have tabled a motion. I am doing this for the following reason and not for being faint by asking why you voted against it. Mr Azarkan didn't faint either; I didn't mean that. We said at the time: 'calls on the government to ensure that NCTV deals with the original core tasks and does not collect its own information about citizens or bodies'. The reason I'm asking is the following. Would the PVV now say on such a motion: it is a good idea on second thought to say that SZW should go back to its core tasks, namely coordination and the promotion of cooperation? Last year we had 67 seats for this motion. That would be a large majority with the PVV. So I do not want to be faint, but I think it is a relevant political fact if the PVV were to say: on second thought, we would support such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u23	It's not so much "on second thought." We just know more now. That is not because the previous minister has informed us proactively or fully, but because we now have more information through Wob requests. That is why we would now come to different judgments. At the end of my speech, I will also say what we want, but I will tell you now. We no longer want these integrated analyses to be carried out by NCTV. If that motion is to monitor it, then I will probably have to look at the operative part very carefully. I will probably give a positive advice to my group. But in the end, of course, it has to be determined in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u24	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u25	Let me give a second example. According to the NCTV Geert Wilders would make the spirits in the Netherlands ripe for radicalisation. This malicious qualification shows that the NCTV authors can't make solid, truth-based reports. The NCTV has put the PVV and its party leader and therefore all PVV's as half Nazis and thus as state-dangerous. The NCTV wasn't allowed to do this. This was illegal and also false. We are asking for an apology for this today. We also demand recovery. The Minister should take this back in writing and send an apology and recovery letter to all domestic and foreign recipients of the NCTV reports, including the foreign intelligence services or the people working there. I would like to have a commitment on this point. The NCTV has shown that it is unable to conduct integrated analyses in a responsible manner. As far as PVV is concerned, the NCTV, at least on this part, has lost the credit. If State security so requires, the AIVD and STIVD can carry out the necessary investigations if they so wish, but never the NCTV again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u26	Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to Mr. Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u27	What do we have a National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security for? You would say: to coordinate terrorism policy and to promote cooperation between all parties involved to keep the Netherlands safe? However, the NCTV does much more than that. The NCTV is a department of the Ministry, but has grown enormously in recent years in terms of size and tasks, in practice but not on paper. The list of everything that went wrong with the NCTV is getting longer and longer. In violation of the law, people's data were collected and disseminated for years. Fake accounts were used to track activists. Secret investigations into mosques were funded. Information has been collected and reported on political parties and politicians. Recently it appeared that municipalities have started so-called aid talks with people, in reality intended to collect information, also encouraged to do so by NCTV. NCTV even shared personal information with foreign services. You can't do that. The response of the Ministry, of which the NCTV is therefore a department, is always to make revealed problems very small. If the law is broken, there will simply be a new law, so that in future there will be at least a legal basis for the abuses. But it's not just a legal problem. You can't launder something that went wrong. Not everything that gets a legal basis is then fine. I think that is a very radical, right-of-court view: if we put it in the law, it is good. Not as far as the SP is concerned. I am still missing the fundamental debate, let us try to make it a matter of what the tasks and responsibilities of the NCTV should be. The law that is now under discussion in the Chamber is under heavy attack. Experts and interested parties are devastating. In a round table conversation, it was really chopped up. That law would not fit in with a democratic society, too general and too vague, with too broad powers and too few guarantees. Also, the law would not be sufficiently motivated, there would be a lack of robust supervision and so on. The Dutch Data Protection Authority warns that this bill gives a licence to the NCTV and opens the door to a surveillance society, in which all kinds of sensitive information about citizens is collected and shared with other organisations on a large scale and without proper supervision, for example, without people being able to defend themselves properly through a court. Many agreed to that criticism. Of course, it is useful to analyse the state of the country, society and security threats. But the question is who is responsible for this. This is what the AIVD and the police do, of course. Otherwise they wouldn't be able to do their job and they'd be looking for threats haphazardly. I hope that won't happen. Scientists, for example, also make analyses. It is a strong question of what the value added of the NCTV is, except for bringing together different analyses and co-ordinating. What exactly is the added value and why would it be desirable for the NCVT to be legally empowered to carry out additional research itself? What, according to the Minister, is not good or insufficient about the analysis of the police and the AIVD? And why, according to the Minister, is it good that NCTV is critically questioning the police and the AIVD, as we were able to read in the letter of inquiry the day before yesterday? Isn't that a bad place? Do we need the Ministry to keep the search and intelligence services in check? I don't think so, do I? This NCTV proposal is also subject to fewer safeguards. The monitoring of powers is not sufficient. Is that also the answer to the question why the Minister wants to do all this? I should hope not. Of course, you can say, "Well, I don't care, I don't have anything to hide." That will certainly apply to a lot of people. But does the Minister recognise that it can have a restrictive effect on society and freedom of expression and that people feel less free and unwatched if they are followed and watched by the Ministry? This has happened in the past, for example, with various journalists and activists who say about the housing shortage. Isn't that very undesirable? There are now noises to lift the NCTV, because the police and the intelligence services do not need the NCTV at all. However, I feel much more about bringing NCTV back to its core tasks: coordinating the fight against terrorism and improving cooperation. Don't let the NCTV expand into an intelligence service. They're not, and we shouldn't want them to. There's gonna be trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u28	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u29	Mr. Chairman. What's going on with our public services? The IRS has illegal blacklists of 270,000 civilians. For many years, tens of thousands of parents and children have been unfairly labeled and destroyed as fraud. There's been unprecedented injustices. The police have been hacking into the law for three years. The NCTV, which we are discussing today, has been secretly spying on citizens, organisations and political parties for years and has acted outside its legal powers. Mr. Chairman. Why is that problematic? If citizens' rights are violated, we will lose an important pillar under our democratic rule of law. That's what it's about. The Dutch must be able to rely on public services, which sometimes have far-reaching powers, to comply with the law. It is time for a firm and independent investigation into what has taken hold of the shadowy actions of the NCTV. What have they been up to for years? I know there are MPs who don't know the difference, but the NCTV isn't a security service. The NCTV has no powers to follow individuals and organisations. The NCTV must not express itself in a qualifying way about political parties, even if it is only because it is directly under a minister. It is not only problematic, it is deadly for the trust and rights of Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. I really want an investigation. I want a timeline and a fact story. I want to know at what time the minister or the previous minister was familiar with these investigations. Who ordered it? When was that discussed? What does the Minister actually think of the way in which political parties have been followed, interpreted and qualified in the weekly reports? It's actually the reverse world. When a political party like DENK stands up for people who are disadvantaged and treated unequally... We have seen that the cabinet has indicated that there is indeed institutional racism. But when you mention that, the NCTV writes that you are a danger to society. I think it's a disgrace. Mr. Chairman. The illegal operation of the NCTV has now also been forced on municipalities. In Rotterdam, for example, we saw that a team was instructed and funded from the NCTV, with performance requirements, sending officials on the way to obtain information about citizens. They were just used as informants. They pretended to be an aid worker. That's what we saw at the mosques. I spoke to a mosque chairman. With tears in his eyes, he said, "We got a call. Help was offered, and instead of helping us with our security, they hung up cameras and planted bugs. I'll never do anything for the city again." That's what he said. Mr. Chairman. The working methods of the NCTV are extremely damaging to society. Also the judge has finished the misconduct of the NCTV. Because it has been harassed for years, Muslim Rights Watch has filed a complaint. That's what won the glorious. They were being stalked. Donators were interrogated. Employees were opposed by various bodies. Financial transactions were blocked. You have no idea what would happen if the NCTV put you on that list. There's an Argos broadcast next week. I'd say go check it out. Mr. Chairman. How does that work in the Minister's head? If you break the law for years and spy on civilians and political parties, the Minister says: you know what we do, we're going to reward you extra with powers. We're gonna take care of that by law. That's like a pyromaniac who secretly sets fires, gives unlimited access to matches and gasoline. Finally, Mr President. This is also about people's lives being destroyed, people who have been traumatized by NCTV's actions for years. No guarantee without supervision and control. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I speak out against a number of parties, the PVV, the PvdA, the CDA and the Christian Union. In my opinion, these too often pass laws that give far-reaching powers. Then they shouldn't complain that those laws, like the drag law, the hack law, the data law WGS... I saw the PVV just do it: "It was a good law until we were investigated." I expect MPs to stay sharp, even if it's not about themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u30	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u31	There was no law at the time. I didn't say it was a good law. We had another interrupting debate. There was no law at the time. It was about investigations of the NCTV. We then considered that NCTV could handle this power prudently. Now that we have more information, we're judging differently. But there was no law at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u32	It's never wise to rub it in a stain. I did not want to put this question to Mr Markuszower. Mr Markuszower states: the analyses that were made last time about others were within the law; they were okay. But that method is exactly the same as that used in the analyses of the PVV, and then you can't come to the conclusion that the latter method is suddenly going outside the law. So I don't understand from Mr Markuszower in any way that he says: if other groups of people, other Dutch, are being investigated, then it's all okay. I know his aversion to everything that has to do with Muslims and so on, I know that, but it would be awesome to him if he could be empathic, empathic, and come to the conclusion that the method should be severely rejected, not only when it comes to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u33	Well, let's all quote each other right. We do not dislike Muslims at all; we have a problem with Islam. Mr Azarkan knows that very well. That's one. Two: at the time, when the Minister had incompletely informed the Chamber, and so as a Chamber we did not have a complete picture of what that all meant, we felt it was important to be able to monitor a number of threats, such as those arising from mosques or from imams calling for violence. We thought the NCTV could handle that responsibility. Now that we have more information on this, we can see that the NCTV is no longer to be trusted on this point. It's called moving insight. That is not because we have become more intelligent, but because we have more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u34	Thank you. That's what you just exchanged with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u35	Mr President, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u36	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u37	We'll have to argue with each other purely. Mr Markuszower relied on a legal basis. Otherwise, I don't understand him. If he says that how the PVV was written is simply not good at all, then the question is whether that is a qualification that is not good or that goes outside the law. My argument is that the NCTV's actions had no legal basis. Then it doesn't matter who's being investigated. If Mr Markuszower agrees with me, he should have concluded last time that that was the case at the time. Now he says: that is not the case. So now I don't know what was the previous basis on which the NCTV acted. Can Mr Markuszower explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u38	It was an interruption by Mr Markuszower with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u39	I don't think he can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u40	That's gonna come in second term. Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. And good luck today. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u41	Mr. Chairman. There we are again, with the government as the perpetrator. A debate about the functioning of the cabinet, about a government that lies, misinformed us and does not follow the rules. Sound recordings of the OMT are, contrary to the Archive Act, erased and advice from the OMT is manipulated. The Prime Minister has known his texts for 12 years, also against the Archive Act. And then the Chamber is accused by the Prime Minister of distrust. There was De Jonge's mouth cap deal, in which Deloitte catches millions to exonerate him from neighborhood politics. The day after the debate, De Jonge told the press that the Chamber should only trust him a little more, a truly shocking reversal by these rulers: the Chamber should not be so suspicious, because that is bad for confidence in politics. And now a debate on the NCTV, which does what it is not allowed to do. The Minister assured us here a few weeks ago that the NCTV provided only the letterhead, and had no substantive interference. When I asked this Minister about Question Time, her literal words were that I should listen better. A flagrant lie was masked by patronizing. In the wobbled mails and notes we later read that the NCTV was indeed involved from a leading role. Now that it can't be held up, the Chamber gets excuses, and what excuses: in the weekly reports the NCTV went too far, MPs were mentioned and normative statements were taken, and none of that should have happened. The letter continues in a truly shocking way. It says that it is a pity that NCTV should not be allowed to do so, and we should therefore have to regulate it legally. This is necessary because this world is changing, because society is under pressure from rising energy prices and an influx of refugees, writes the Minister of Justice. It's all crises that the government itself has caused. And that's why we should turn into a surveillance society? Never washed a good crisis. That's bullshit. Why is it that the AIVD and the STUDY aren't enough? What is the added value of NCTV if it behaves like this? Mr. Chairman. I have no confidence in this minister and this letter only makes it worse. I am not alone in this; the entire Dutch population no longer trusts the cabinet. And that must change, for the sake of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u42	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u43	Mr. Chairman. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback, and that, I think, is the case in an accelerated way for the government: trust comes on foot and leaves with the speed of a Ferrari. And that's what we see happening here. Trust is systematically violated. We have an organization, the NCTV, which has now built up a worrying track record when it comes to doing things they are not ordered for, thereby violating the trust of the whole country but also the trust of more specific groups. I mention, for example, the Muslim community and the infiltrations that have taken place in mosques with the support of the NCTV. Like Mr Azarkan, I have spoken to mosque leaders. This is also something that's so hard to fix. I am talking about populations and communities that have opened their doors to aid workers who were in close contact with the communities and who are now thinking: who can we trust? That track record has been running for a very long time. It's about investigating non-criminal behavior, naming imams who turned out to have done nothing wrong and qualifying Kick Out Zwarte Piet as "radical," which had to be returned to. It's also about secretly tracking citizens on social media with fake accounts. There has been no proper supervision of this organization all this time. I would also like to mention the investigation and listing of political parties, which is totally inappropriate. And recently there was the news about the approach of the municipality of Rotterdam, with the support of the NCTV. It just can't be. Sometimes I find it almost unbelievable that this is happening in our country, but it is happening in our country. That is why I fully understand what Mr Van Nispen said. Does it make any sense to go further with this bill, which actually legitimizes the violations of the powers that the NCTV had? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to get back to the core. It must be about coordinating tasks, where you can also ask yourself whether they belong to a separate club. Why does it not coordinate on such an important issue? Is that a really crazy idea? Why do we need this club? We also see that it is an organization that has grown ever more. That, of course, is a pattern that you see more often. An organization that has grown ever larger is looking for tasks to keep the organisation busy. That's very undesirable. So as far as GroenLinks is concerned, we have to go back to the core very critically, we have to look at how we organise supervision and what tasks around coordination we should invest where, instead of sticking patches that are very much in line with "something that is not right sometimes happens, we say something about that and then we make it possible for them to do broader tasks." My party is extremely critical of that. Finally, I would like to say something that is also in place here. Where would we be without good investigative journalists? We would not have had this debate if a number of investigative journalists had not gone into this very deeply and we should have relied only on the blue eyes of the rulers. We would not have had this debate. I didn't want to leave that out here. Hail to all those reporters who got this over the table. We need to look very, very critically at how to proceed with the NCTV. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u44	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Mutluer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too have been surprised lately, or should I say I was unpleasantly surprised? When I read reports about the NCTV. Briefly a few examples that just passed the review. Last month, the NCTV was urged by the court to stop linking Muslim Rights Watch in the Netherlands with extremism and the spreading of undemocratic ideas. According to the court, that was unlawful because an unfavourable impression of the foundation is created which is not supported by the facts. Afterwards, the NCTV also reported to municipalities, police, ministries and foreign intelligence services about political parties, such as the PVV and DENK. One would contribute to radicalisation and the other was associated with Muslim fundamentalism. The reporting of political parties by a service directly under the Ministry is at least debatable. It's actually undesirable. We live in a democracy and the colleagues of the parties who have been examined by the NCTV are simply elected representatives, as I do. They have freedom of assembly and freedom of speech. If this goes beyond bounds, the courts can still intervene, as colleagues have seen before. And if a political party or other organisation is associated with state-dangerous activities or other criminal offences, then there is the path that runs from suspicion in criminal law to being banned by the courts of such an organisation. Last year a law was passed, a bill that gave judges more opportunities to ban anti-democratic organisations quickly. I am not jumping over that kind of ban, but they are the ultimate way to silence anti-democratic movements. Unsubstantiated judgements about political parties or other organisations by the NCTV under the care of the Minister of JenV do not fit in. My question is therefore simple: can the NCTV simply stop doing so permanently? Mr. Chairman. Even if the NCTV only uses open sources, the collection of information is not without obligation. It is certainly not when undercover or through fake accounts on social media information is collected. If the NCTV places parties in a certain angle, it is not without meaning. It determines how others and authorities look at such an organization and treat them. It goes without saying that this should be handled more carefully. The Minister has now sent a bill to the Chamber to ensure that the NCTV will also be legally framed. We're gonna deal with that law. But I'd like to issue a profit warning. If that law stays the way it is now, the PvdA will vote against it. The law is too vague and too broad. The Personal Data Authority even referred to it as "a licence for the NCTV" and spoke of "opening the door to a surveillance society in which all kinds of sensitive information about citizens is collected and shared with other organisations on a large scale and without proper supervision." But I also want to step back. We have many services in the Netherlands to ensure a safer Netherlands. From different angles, police, KMar, AIVD and STIVD contribute to this. Not that it always goes well; see the new messages about the AIVD that use hacking software that is controversial. Anyway, it's based on some laws and regulations and it's getting hit by the inspection, the CTIVD. In addition, the NCTV, which also believes it is necessary to follow individuals and organisations. My question is indeed why this is necessary. What is the added value? I must say that I am also not convinced by the letter sent by the Minister to our colleagues on Tuesday and to me. The minister recently announced that he was going to scale down the Multidisciplinary Intervention Team. The motto was: better in half than in complete error. Those were the words of my colleague from the VVD. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to the NCTV. I think that NCTV should really concentrate on the goal it was once intended for and what it is good at: coordinating the activities of police, justice, AIVD, STUD and other organisations. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u46	Thank you, Mrs Mutluer. Then I give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u47	Thank you, Mr President. We need to be able to trust that the government will keep us safe, but at the same time that same government will abide by the law. Almost a year ago I was standing here with exactly this message. Of course, the government has to abide by the law. I would therefore like to make it clear immediately that the VVD believes that NCTV is out of line when it follows someone or gives qualifications about political parties and tweets. That's not up to NCTV, as far as the VVD is concerned. Politicians must be free to do their work. It must be crystal clear what the NCTV is doing and within what framework. Hence my motion last year to bring that necessary legislative proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible; I shall come back to that in a moment. The reality is that we need the NCTV to keep our country safe. The task of the NCTV is to identify and identify threats and coordinate the joint commitment on resilience, no more and no less. I really am getting abdominal pain from the examples quoted by the Minister in her letter this week, the things that we are not doing anymore pending the bill. I explicitly mention monitoring online right-wing extremism, a threat that is growing and growing. I also mention participation in the local case consultation, with in mind the possible release of terrorists who are still in Vught. It's all tasks that no one else does but the NCTV and that are needed to keep our country safe. I repeat once again that NCTV is not, as far as I am concerned, an intelligence and security service. That's the AIVD. The NCTV is not, as far as I'm concerned, an APB either. That's what the police do, under the authority of the D.A.'s office. But the task of the NCTV is clear: coordination and analysis. We need to talk about that analysis. I very much agree with Mr Van Nispen on this. I would like to hear from the Minister a precise explanation of how this analysis task of the NCTV will be carried out in the future. Internet monitoring stays, but how far does it go? Can the NCTV tweets continue to be used for its analyses? Can the NCTV tweets qualify? Can the NCTV create a fake account to collect information somewhere? The Minister repeatedly points out that NCTV analyses are not aimed at individuals and organisations, but at broader phenomena. But how? A phenomenon is filled by qualifying an expression of a person, isn't it? I would like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The tasks of the NCTV must have a sound legal basis. He's not here right now. With this basis, we make clear what this organisation is allowed to do and under what guarantees. As far as I am concerned, the law is not a way to launder the current course of action, but to restrict the current course of action, to go back to the core and then carry out that task properly. I ask the Minister to get on with answering the questions about this bill. I also agree with previous speakers who said that the Round Table also showed that the current legislative proposal actually raises more questions than answers. Mr President, I will conclude. The NCTV does an extremely important job. We simply cannot afford to leave this organization behind with our hands behind our backs. The safety risks are really too great for that. So I ask the Minister to take up the bill soon so that we can discuss it in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u48	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u49	I must say that I am getting a little optimistic about the VVD's contribution. I do not agree with everything that is not possible either, but it is moving in the right direction. Mrs Michon says that the implementation of her motion is not intended to launder the practices, but to restrict them. Does Mrs Michon think that with the law as it stands, which is indeed so much criticism, the Minister has succeeded in doing so? She calls on the Minister to answer these questions quickly, but how does she judge the law in the form in which he was sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u50	I note, partly inspired by the round table, that the current legislative proposal does not lead to the desired clarity. There's a lot of confusion about that. I heard colleagues earlier say that the law legitimizes that we are going to turn this into a new intelligence service. In the view of my group, that is not the intention at all. I want the law to be clear about what this NCTV is doing. We may differ in the sense that he needs to do something more or less, but we need to get rid of the current ambiguity, which gives you the stories that he can do anything unbridled. We can't afford that ambiguity. The tasks which the NCTV must necessarily do, he can no longer do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u51	Mr Van Nispen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u52	Yes, it's even my last interruption, Mr. Chairman. Does Mrs. Michon think we should go back to the drawing board? Is this law still to be saved or should a new attempt be made after we have agreed on exactly what the tasks and working methods of the NCTV should be? What, according to Mrs Michon, is at the heart of what NCTV should do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u53	Those were actually two questions in one. Mr Van Nispen does that very cleverly; he has been around for a while. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she also believes that the current legislative proposal can be amended. She has undoubtedly heard the criticism. I'm very curious how she's handling it and how she's taking the bill further. I'm asking for speed because I'm so worried about the tasks the NCTV isn't doing right now. I mentioned some of them. It is simply very vulnerable if these tasks are not carried out. That is the real dilemma. I continue to argue for speed and I ask the Minister whether he can do it with a new law or with an amendment. To be honest, I don't care as much as they do, as long as they hurry. Mr Van Nispen's second question: what should that law say? I do not think it should be said that NCTV can secretly follow people and organisations. It must not be said, it must not give the impression that NCTV tweets qualify politicians. There is an analysis and coordination task. In this task of analysis, I have asked a number of questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What's that job? How do you do it? What do you do? If you're using open sources, can you do that under a fake account? We need to be clear about this today so that we can weigh up what they have to do as far as we are concerned. We don't all have to agree, as long as it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u54	I, too, welcome Mrs Michon's input in terms of 'better in half than in total error'. I do have a question. You state that the bill is very necessary for safety. Let's get the threat picture. Last time the NCTV could only sail on the intelligence of the services. What would be missing in your view at this time? What didn't get in?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u55	I cannot fail to respond now to the saying that I put forward 'better in half than in total error'. It was precisely D66, it was Mrs Van der Werf who did not support my motion last year in which I said: hurry up with that bill, so that that legal basis is there for the work of NCTV. I still want that today. The legislative proposal before us still leaves room for discussion about the implementation of this task of analysis. That is what we are talking about today on the basis of some terrible examples. Now I have lost Mrs Van der Werf's question because I first went into her reflection. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u56	You can repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u57	I wonder what you think is missing from the current threat picture. The NCTV had to do it last time with the intelligence of the security services. And your speech was, in fact, that all these powers of analysis are needed. I wonder if in this case you think that this has led to errors or to things to be repaired.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u58	I'm now reviewing the information that has come to us, but the threat picture is not just based on information from the AIVD. It is also based on information from ministries, police and science. That threat was created with the help of several sources, and the reason for this debate is not so much about that threat image as it is about those weekly messages. It has given qualifications to tweets of politicians. I see that as two different things, where I do not like the latter, the qualification of politicians' tweets. That is what I said in my speech. They don't do that anymore, and they shouldn't do that anymore. The fact that this threat must be created and that it must be created by using several sources is something that I think we should preserve, for us here in the debate, but also for local government, which can also include the measures on resilience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u59	Well, those weekly messages, of course, weren't the only thing that went wrong. Anyway, that aside. I asked the question because I do not understand very well why we would like to invest in a ministry for information. We already have two excellent services. So it has not become clear to me exactly what the need for it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u60	Okay, now I understand the question better. The fact that he's using intelligence as a source doesn't turn NCTV into an intelligence agency. In fact, it shouldn't be. We have used the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands, the DTN, in debates on terrorism, and that is the basis of the NCTV. That is wider than just the information from the AIVD, but that is what we are basing our debate on. So it is precisely the filtered and also the more administrative, I would say, washed information from the AIVD and others. On this basis, we are then holding our debate, and I think that is very valuable. We do that with terrorism, but we do that with the threat picture of national security, which we talked about recently. That was precisely where the rise of right-wing extremistism occurred. So these images come from several sources, and so they are not an intelligence or security service themselves, and they should not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u61	I am asking because the AIVD itself indicated that she did not see the added value of that administrative filter, or whatever you call it. They indicate that they have their own information and that they want it to go directly to the right place. There is no point in putting a third person at the table to throw his own sauce over it. So what exactly do you mean? What is the exact added value of the NCTV, which indicates information that the services themselves have already indicated and given to the NCTV or the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u62	But then you say: we can actually do without all the debates we have on these threats. I wouldn't say that. I am therefore basing this on the sources on which we have our debates: the threat images. I'd like to keep it, because they're very valuable to me. I also hear it from local administrators who take action on the basis of these threats and are, in any case, alerted to emerging threats. I think that's very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u63	Mr Michon-Derkzen of the VVD rightly states that NCTV acted outside the law. This has far-reaching consequences for organisations, because they have sometimes gone to court. But it also applies to the individuals who were arrested at the border. It also occurred that they suddenly saw their name come back in the weekly messages that were exchanged with the secret services. Those organisations and individuals actually have very few rights, and the question is not so much how to restrict the legal framework by looking ahead. That's a pretty forced way, too. But also look back: how does the VVD spokesperson feel about our responsibility to the people who have been trying to get access for years and who has actually not been informed and on what basis? How are we going to support these victims? What is Mrs Michon-Derkzen's idea of correcting that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u64	First of all, Mr Azarkan is talking about the legal framework, but that legal framework does not exist. Last year we therefore said: come up with a clear legal framework, because what the NCTV has done so far was based on the organisational decision. And that was way too thin. So we do not fix a legal framework, we need a legal framework. What we do about victims, that's what I get from the pieces. That's what I'm talking about. You read that, too. You'd better ask the Minister. They are all now given access to where and with whom this information has been shared. That is what I read in the documents and I repeat it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u65	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u66	I wanted my question answered, but I would like to make this right. There is indeed a legal framework, namely the GDPR. That is simply the legal framework that applies to all organisations. If you want to collect information about citizens, it should only be allowed if citizens consent or if it is done by a security service, within the legal framework guarded by the CTIVD. That is the legal framework. There was, but they didn't stick to it. We are now going to try to set up a different legal framework. That's just a correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u67	At the AIVD and STIVD there is a review, in advance, during, afterwards and then again by the judge. I'm curious how the VVD sees that with the NCTV, because that doesn't happen there at all. In fact, they do nothing, without control, and then we hope that the Minister of Justice and Security will have some supervision or something. I wonder how the VVD sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u68	Thank you for this question, because then I can say it again. The NCTV is and will not, in the view of my group, be an intelligence and security service. The pattern, the legal framework, of an intelligence and security service is very different. The powers are different. They are allowed to follow and observe. They may secretly follow and observe. And when they do, they have a tight legal framework for that. That's permission in advance and exactly what you're saying. I'm not gonna repeat that either. The NCTV does not have that competence, nor does it have that competence as far as my group is concerned. So that is just another organisation with another task, an analysis task and a coordination task. That task of analysis is what the debate is about, because the NCTV, in the terrible examples that lie ahead, has partly behaved in that task of analysis as if it were an intelligence and security service. And that was wrong. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u69	Exactly. But if you're gonna take all those things they did right now off, which is completely justified, why don't we just go back to the situation where you had the AIVD and the STUD and not NCTV? 'Cause at that time, it was totally fine, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u70	That's what Mrs Van der Werf just told me: do you really need the NCTV? But in my eyes, you're gonna need it tremendously. I think the NCTV has existed since the early 2000s. 2004, I say out of my head. The arrival of the NCTV gave you integral threat analyses, we started looking ahead. Terrorism was of course a huge hot issue, but it was also about threats from the climate or threats of any origin. We are thinking of threats, which made the whole government more integrally advise towards us here, as MPs, but also the local government. Apart from this task, of course, they also have the task of monitoring and securing. They are also in the structure of the crisis approach. I think the NCTV as an organization is doing an incredibly valuable job. That is what I want to say here once more. Those are people who, day in, day out, make sure that we can live safely here in the Netherlands. I don't think that's to be underestimated. That can also be said here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u71	Now I hear something strange, namely that threats from the climate must be monitored by NCTV and that they will take action on them. Maybe the VVD went wrong here, but threat from the climate isn't at all a task of the NCTV? They have to stay out of it. It's about security, and I hope they'll contribute something to that. So far they have done so well out of line, but the NCTV and threats from the climate seem to me to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u72	I would advise Mr Van Haga to read the national threat picture once. That is very interesting and there are all kinds of threats in front of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u73	Thank you, Mrs Michon-Derkzen. Then we go to Mrs. Sylvana Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The NCTV makes the Netherlands less safe. That is the simple conclusion that we can draw after an accumulation of abuses. In 2017, anti-racism activists were mistakenly incorporated into the Threat Picture of Terrorism. This had enormous consequences for the personal safety of these people and for the image of those organisations, who do nothing but fight daily for an equal Netherlands. A year later, an imam from Arnhem was wrongly labeled as a salafist. In addition, the broad meaning of that word "salafist" was ignored. It cost him his job. Unfortunately, he indicated that he had heard a lot of similar stories. This was later accepted when NCTV employees made the call about executives who "behind each tree saw a salafist." "Institutional Muslim hatred," that's what I call it. And it turned out to be right. Municipalities were secretly assisted with an illegal undercover project in which mosques were infiltrated. Special personal data have been processed, against the rules. After this revelation, many of those data were destroyed. This raises the question of whether we will really get all the facts out of the table, for example about which national and international services all these data have been shared with. And there's more. Activists and campaign leaders, including my party, were watched illegally and without any authority whatsoever. Because if you are fighting for an affordable home, equivalence, better trans-care or climate justice in the Netherlands, you can be watched by the NCTV. That's the conclusion I'm drawing. The NCTV then shares your data with, for example, municipalities and the police, but also with foreign intelligence services. We haven't been closer to a surveillance society. You'd think putting on the penance rug would be a logical consequence. You would think that it is recognised that NCTV is a danger to the functioning of our democracy in this way. But nothing could be further from the truth. Instead, a legislative proposal was passed in order to extend the powers further. And that while this Chamber supported my motion which demanded exactly the opposite. There's been an adopted motion, and the opposite is being done. That is simply the power of the House of Representatives. I ask this Minister whether she intends to comply with this ruling of this Chamber. When I said in a debate that it could not be done so much longer, that this situation was affecting people and destroying their lives, former Minister Grapperhaus claimed that this was not happening at all. That was a shameless lie. I got so angry about it that people wrote in chocolate letters how hysterical and furious I was. Yeah, I'm getting angry with lying ministers, especially if it has such big consequences for people's lives. But it didn't stop there either, because a few weeks ago it was hit again. Political parties including mine, as it turned out, were secretly monitored. And Minister Grapperhaus also lied about this. Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, as far as BET1 is concerned, that's enough. Scandal after scandal, lie after lie; it should be done. The NCTV has shown that it has a damaging effect on the lives and safety of many people, but it has not shown that it can contribute effectively to increased safety. Lacing by the rules. Do whatever they want. The Ministry of Justice and Security has played an active role in hiding and facilitating this for years. My question to the current Minister is whether she explicitly renounces it. Does it recognise that numerous abuses and unsafe situations are being created rather than prevented? And does she want to consider the fact that more goes wrong in her ministry, including the police, the MIT? How does she look at that? I told you, Mr President, as far as our party is concerned, it is ready and we are drawing the line here. No one here can answer the question of what the NCTV is doing. What's he doing here? Their terror must end. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u75	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u76	Thank you. Mr President, citizens in the Netherlands and the people in the gallery, I think it is a school class. In the Netherlands we have always had security services that guard our security: the AIVD, the STIVD and their predecessors. Since 2012, a new agency has been added: the NCTV. Where I slept more or less at ease with the AIVD and the STUD in mind, there I get some restless and nasty dreams of the derailed way in which the NCTV sometimes performs its work. In April last year it was announced that NCTV with fake accounts is following citizens on social media. These included religious people, activists, even Groningers who fought for their security with regard to gas extraction, you can hardly imagine it and political campaign leaders. The NCTV was way out of line here when it came to BBB. By systematically following different citizens, the NCTV behaved like a secret service, while the NCTV is not at all. Unlike the AIVD, the General Intelligence and Security Service, and the STIVD, the NCTV is not under the supervision of the CTIVD, the Supervisory Board of the Intelligence and Security Services. Sorry about all the abbreviations. I've already become part of The Hague! Maybe we'll go on our website and make a list of the abbreviations. Then you can just find out what everything is. So I apologize for that. Mr. Chairman. As a result, there is poor monitoring of the information collected by the NCTV and how this is done and handled. In addition, it is not clear how far NCTV can go in collecting and processing what are called "open sources," such as tweets and other social media reports, including democratically elected representatives of the people and journalists and citizens who have no knowledge of this at all. In the same year, the NCTV went over the line again. Ten municipalities had undercover researched mosques, without the consent of the prayer houses and their visitors. The NCTV paid for these investigations and brought the municipalities into contact with a research company. In these investigations special personal data have been processed, which is contrary to the privacy law, the GDPR. Unfortunately, it hasn't stopped. Last month the news came out that NCTV, of course secretly, warned municipalities and police about polarizing political parties. So we are dealing here with an organization that thinks itself a secret service, collects all information in the luwte, which, as far as I am concerned, is not clear whether they are allowed to do so at all and how this information is processed, and then goes on to pass on an opinion on democratically elected parties. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the BBB sees an organisation in the NCTV whose purpose is unclear. Secondly, it is unclear for everyone where the limits of what NCTV is and is not allowed to do. The deeper one digs, the greater the jumble of responsibilities and vagueness in its legal frameworks. As far as we are concerned, this debate should not be so much about the working methods of the NCTV as about what the NCTV should be. Do we need an extra security detail? Should it be an organisation that focuses on crisis management? This is an important question. Only when this question has been properly answered can we look at what powers the NCTV may have. And if we know what powers he may have, we can set better frameworks in which the NCTV can and can operate. The NCTV was created with the best intentions. But can the Minister explain to me exactly what its added value is at present in addition to the capabilities of the AIVD and the STUDY? I would also like to know from the Minister what fake accounts have been used. What were those fake accounts? I'd like names and numbers of those accounts. And have there ever been any excuses to FDF, Farmers Defence Force? The NCTV first called FDF "extremistic," but later corrected it into "activist." But farmers are very much affected; they are still called "terrorists." Did that apology come? And finally, last question. I note that there is very little support for the NTCV in the Chamber, and I would like the Minister to give it a comprehensive reflection. What does the Minister think about the fact that there is little or no support for it anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u77	Thank you. Last question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u78	Then I'm gonna have to be very careful how I'm gonna do this. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs van der Plas on this flaming speech. She is right to say that there is an apology to be made. I would add that this apology must be made to everyone who has been followed, probably also to Mrs Van der Plas herself and myself. I also see Mr. Van Meijeren sitting there. They've all been followed. My question is this. Mrs Van der Plas has already asked a few weeks, perhaps even a few months ago, during Question Time: what did this NCTV have to do with that? Then the Minister said: no, he only delivers the letterhead. Now we've seen all those Wob requests. How does Mrs van der Plas feel about this question during Question Time and the Minister's answer, with the knowledge of the present?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u79	Well, look, of course that scared me. Back then, when the news came that I was being followed, I was startled. Then there was an explanation here in the Chamber. I thought it was a little vague here and there, but okay. I also had a conversation with people from NCTV after that. I was content with that; they explained it a little bit more. And then other things keep coming up, and now I don't know. We are indeed talking about distrust in politics, and here in the Chamber there is distrust of each other, but of course this does not make it any better. So I have a bit of an unheimical feeling and I hope that feeling can be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u80	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. There is another question from Mrs Van der Werf. That's her last question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u81	This unheimical feeling, which Mrs Van der Plas describes, was also felt by my group last year when Mr Michon put forward a proposal in June to urgently establish a legal basis for the NCTV. Mrs Van der Plas then voted for it. At that time she did not find it any problem that all this had to be dealt with quickly. And now you say: yes, Farmers Defence Force and a few other arguments are the reason why I have become a little more reluctant. Can you explain exactly what happened between June last year and now? Then you supported that motion, and now you are standing here with this criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u82	Well, I think I just explained that in the answer to Mr Van Haga. Last year, of course, it was a different situation. Last year I didn't know I was being followed myself. Whatever the reason, it did happen. I did end up in reports at the VWS Department. It was said, "You are an influencer. We need to look at society's opinion a little bit. This is important in a crisis situation." Those are things that happened. Meanwhile, Farmers Defence Force has been called "extremistic," which is completely incorrect when you read the definition of an extremist organization on the website of the AIVD. There really is a huge difference between an activist organisation and an extremist or terrorist organisation. Extremist organizations deliberately use social-undermining actions and violence to overthrow society; let me put it this way. That doesn't make me feel any better, no. Mr Markuszower said it in two words: moving insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u83	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: the NCTV has to abide by the law. Nor are normative positions on MPs and other people who interfere in the public debate. In an ideal world, in which people share and adhere to our values, we don't need agencies like the NCTV. But the world is not ideal. Threats also come from different sides in the Netherlands. Based on the NCTV threat picture, we know that the most acute threat against the Netherlands comes from the corner of jihadism, extreme right-wing and anti-government extremists. This makes the existence and work of the NCTV necessary in an open society. Social media are also used to attack our open society. To defend our open society, the NCTV is therefore urgently needed. Among other things, they have the task of analysing phenomena and trends, for example in order to support municipalities in the wider context of radicalisation. In order to do so, the NCTV should be able to collect and interpret data. The Authority has now stated on 8 July 2021 that the organisation decision JenV cannot serve as a basis for the processing of personal data by the NCTV. As a result, NCTV no longer identifies and indicates these phenomena and trends in the field of threats, which are inextricably linked to expressions and behaviour of persons. The NCTV has also ceased its participation and contribution to local cases. Finally, NCTV has ceased its participation in the Task Force in problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign funding. In the letter of 2 November, the Minister stated that this did not serve the interests of national security. That is why we would have preferred to talk today about the processing of personal data law, a law that should provide a framework for NCTV employees when it comes to processing and acquiring personal data. Hence my questions. When can we expect the note on the basis of the report? To what extent is the Netherlands at risk as a result of suspending parts of the work of the NCTV? To what extent are the possibilities to halt potential attacks in a timely manner now limited? And how can the Minister guarantee that the threat level of 3 is right if it is not based on as much information as could be obtained before the suspension in 2021? Mr. Chairman. The world is rough, and it's getting rougher. Our values seem to be less and less accepted. If you want to fight this well, we believe that three things are very important. Firstly, that is sufficient capacity. Current circumstances call for the strengthening and strengthening of the capacity for international detection and judicial cooperation at European level. The coalition agreement provides an impetus for this. Secondly, we are dealing with appropriate legislation focusing on the possibilities of new detection methods. Information processing increasingly requires staff from the services. The CDA has previously called for more attention to be paid to new detection methods such as financial data analysis and artificial intelligence. This includes knowledge of laws and regulations. Thirdly, it is a question of focusing on ethical action. Laws are often lagging behind when it comes to technical possibilities and information exchange. An ethical framework will then provide an opportunity for action. How does the Minister view the idea of paying more attention to new detection methods such as financial data analysis and artificial intelligence in the training of employees? To what extent does the training focus on privacy and ethics laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u85	Thank you. Mr Azarkan van DENK's last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u86	My question to Mr Slootweg of the CDA is: why be so complicated? I think the AP is talking about government data hunger at every round table. We've established that almost every public service collects too much information. Sometimes it's information they can't collect. Now we have together a college for the supervision of intelligence and security services. On behalf of you and I, on behalf of the Dutch, that supervises all data collection by the AIVD and the STUDY. That makes a proposal. Then it turns out that the security services always want it to be wider. We have said to the College: you supervise that. In addition, the college determines how long that can be kept, because that weighs the privacy. Why are we being so complicated? Why are you asking us to create something that puts it outside that framework, doesn't have all kinds of safeguards and we run huge risks of privacy violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u87	I see the additional value of the NCTV very much in the task of analysis and coordination. From the analysis task, I think you can see a number of developments in society that point to radicalisation. Where STIVD and AIVD are really focused on direct threats, I think it is important that the processes of threats and radicalisation are analysed and that you have an organisation that supports municipalities with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u88	Thank you. No, you have four questions like everyone else, Mr. Azarkan. Thank you, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u89	I had 24 seconds to ask a small question, but hopefully it will come in the second round. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u90	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Then we will listen to Mr Van Meijeren, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u91	Thank you, Madam President. "Unrighteous action is not punished, but pays." It is a literal quote from a letter about the working methods of NCTV that we all, all Members of Parliament, received yesterday from privacy watchdog Bits of Freedom. That letter was also signed by Amnesty International. So illegal acts are not punished, but rewards. I think it describes the core of a lot of problems facing our country today, but certainly also the core of the problem we are discussing today and that we have discussed much before. It is not the first time that this has been about the problems at NCTV. Since last year, numerous Question Times, debates, round tables, chamber letters and cabinet responses have been devoted to them, but nothing has been improved in the meantime. In fact, the cesspool continues to open. Last year it appeared that NCTV has been tracking citizens and even politicians for years and has even been using fake accounts for that purpose. That's against the law. The NCTV is not an intelligence agency and is therefore not authorised to play secret agent at all. What happened next was fairly predictable. We first had a Minister of Justice, who wriggled in all sorts of turns and lied that the law was not broken. There would only be a basis that would need to be strengthened. But a few months later, thanks to internal documents that have emerged from Wob requests, it was again confirmed that the NCTV was indeed in breach of the law. And not only did it prove that, but also that lawyers at the Ministry of Justice have already warned against this. They saw this: there is a violation of the law. The Minister was personally informed about it. But instead of putting an immediate end to the illegal practices, the Minister deliberately chose to continue. A risk analysis was carried out which briefly outlined the option of simply accepting the risks of a fine, investigation or reputational damage. This touches on the basis of the rule of law. The fundamental principle of a rule of law is that the law has the highest authority in a country and that the government must also abide by the law. In a functioning rule of law, reports of unlawful state intervention should be taken seriously. In case of doubt as to whether the government is acting in accordance with the law, it must be said immediately: stop in doubt. The fact that that does not happen is unjust. But that there is knowingly and knowingly, purposefully, it is decided to act in violation of the law is not unjust, but anti-rights state.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u92	I have been encouraged by the words about the rule of law, which is also very sweet to me. I would also like to ask Mr Van Meijeren the following. After the news that those weekly messages aren't careful, those weekly messages stopped immediately. So at the moment when the bad news came out, that's what it is, that's how it's done. We have also said here as a Chamber: we do not want it to go on without a legal framework. We'll have a discussion about that law here. In that sense, I would like to ask Mr Van Meijeren the following question. He's using big words. Does he agree that the things that have gone wrong there have been dealt with in a good way, because I do not want anything to be done about it either? How else would Mr Van Meijeren have liked to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u93	There has been no proper action. It was not decided to stop these practices when they came to light. Then it was decided to make a risk assessment and continue. It wasn't until Wob documents came out and proved that the law was broken that it was said, okay, then we're gonna stop. The follow-up reaction was not to stop permanently, but to make a recovery bill as soon as possible. So it hasn't been decided to whistle back the NCTV: back in your booth. But it has just been said that we are going to broaden these limits to allow for this illegal action. I will come to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u94	Mrs Michon-Derkzen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u95	I did not have the illusion that we would agree, but all I want to say to Mr Van Meijeren is that we are going to discuss with each other the law that gives that framework for NCTV. So we're here with each other determining what these safeguards should be and that test should be. He says, "Let's pass the law on coats." We're all there ourselves, I just want him to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u96	We are going to talk about this bill in detail, but in response to Mrs Michon-Derkzen's first point, I would like to quote from NRC of 16 September: "In the Chamber debate in June," which was June 2021 "Grapperhaus was repeatedly asked if the NCTV had broken the law. 'No', said Grapperhaus, 'the foundation could only be a little firmer'." At that time, Grapperhaus already knew that the working methods of the NCTV had already been called "unrighteous" by his own lawyers in February, four months earlier. There is therefore a lack of adequate action. There is no consideration of whether the law is being violated or whether it is lawful. No, they're looking at it. Are we gonna get away with it? That is the problem, and that affects the basis of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u97	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u98	Mr. Chairman. This minister is doing exactly the opposite of what she should be doing. I told you before: instead of whistling back the NCTV, she is now bringing forward a bill to incorporate that illegal procedure into the law. In fact, a third intelligence service is being rigged, and no one has asked for it. I repeat the solution I mentioned in June 2021. The problems are much bigger than we are discussing now. The NCTV is rotten. There is no question of an incident that can be solved with a recovery bill. Employees complain about intimidation, an unsafe working environment and a small group of top officials that make up the service. Criticism can't be tolerated. Critics are even fired. That's why FVD only sees one solution, still the same as last year. My closing sentence is: clean the NCTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u99	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about half an hour to prepare, so I will suspend the sitting until 5:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u100	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. In order to safeguard the security of our society, we need an early view of what lives or grows in that same society. Are there groups of young people who have a great chance of radicalising? Do we see any new threats from dangerous states? How is anti-Semitism developing in our country? Analyses by NCTV on these threats can work as a compass. We not only want to be able to identify such issues, but we also want to be able to understand them and, where necessary, we want to be able to act. Of course, we do so in cooperation with security partners such as the police, the prosecution and the intelligence and security services, the AIVD and the STUDY. The NCTV has the direction and coordinates as the spider in the web, as Mrs Bikker rightly said last June. From this role, the NCTV also shares information with partners as municipalities. The weekly messages were therefore prepared until 2021. The recipients could use these messages to gain insight into the themes relevant to national security. Think of the indication of salafistic movements or of calls for violence from right-wing extremist angle. Public sources, such as scientific articles, news reports and social media channels such as Twitter, were used to produce the weekly messages. Public expressions of relevant players came into view. These were messages that received a lot of attention or led to strong discussions. They came back in the weekly messages. A number of Members of Parliament have also been mentioned in the weekly reports. In these messages normative statements also sounded about MPs. You shouldn't have. Members of parliament, as well as journalists and critics, must be able to trust that they can do their work independently and freely. The work of the NCTV should never interfere with this. I hope you know by now that I have always fought for freedom of speech. This should not only be there, but it should also be experienced. Analyses and testimonies must be of a factual nature. There is no room for personal opinions, certainly not about politicians. These weekly messages have not been made since last March. As far as I'm concerned, they're not coming back either. That is why we are working on strong safeguards. Several MPs have already referred to the legal treatment we will have this autumn. That is where we will discuss the matter of how and what. By the way, I had a lot of questions about that. So I'll think about that later. Mr. Chairman. I have three folders: the weekly messages, the bill and other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u102	Thank you. We will first listen to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u103	Of course, this all sounds very nice, but I wonder: does the Minister not think that there might have been a criminal offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u104	In what sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u105	Well, illegal things have happened. There may have been a situation in which the minister might have known about it, but he didn't report it. There may have been a situation where she didn't know about it, but there have been cases that could be covered by an offense. So I wonder: does the Minister suspect that there may have been a criminal offence? If so, is she prepared to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u106	Last year, when it was seen that there was no good basis for the weekly messages, there was an immediate stop. I mentioned just now that I think that there are normative findings in some of the wordings in the weekly reports. That's what I'm saying: it shouldn't have been. I believe that this has been done correctly. I would add that these weekly reports are not going to come back. If you ask me, and Mr Van Haga does, we have handled it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u107	We have just heard Mr Van Meijeren even read out that it did not stop immediately, but that it continued. It was only when the Wob requests were answered that it became clear what was really going on. It didn't stop until then. If I were responsible for this department, I'd be really scratching my ears. So I'd do a good job of looking into it. In fact, I would like a promise from the Minister that there will be an investigation into whether there has indeed been a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u108	The Wob request we're talking about, the weekly messages, has been made public in my term. I have been Minister for four months now and with the weekly reports we stopped last March.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u109	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u110	I'll be at the weekly message folder. There are a number of different questions in that. Let me start with Mr Azarkan's questions, now replaced by his colleague, as has already been mentioned. He asked me: is the Minister prepared to investigate the action of the NCTV in recent years? Can we get more explanation on that? What exactly happened there? Recently, following the publication of the weekly reports, the MP Omtzigt has also asked about all the information collected about politicians: how about who was the information collected, how did that go? In this week's letter, I announced that I will, of course, respond to the request made by Mr Omtzigt. Of course, I will implement that. Right now, I'm looking at how best to shape that. May I answer to DENK that I take this request with me? Then we can see how we can make it a feasible request, because if you want to know what has happened in recent years, it is very broad. So let's look together to see how you could conduct a proper investigation. The work I am already doing in order to meet Mr Omtzigt will be included. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Markuszower had a number of questions, but they came down to one central question: are you willing to apologize? I think I put it very clearly in the letter that this simply should not have happened this way. I do not think that ideas, opinions about politicians or anyone else are part of the NCTV's remit. I also understand the criticism and the indignation. I have not only indicated that this should not have happened, but also that this type of product will not come back. By the way, perhaps in abundance, but it is good to say that this also applies to other products of the NCTV, which we also come to after the legal treatment. Opinions on politicians and the like, for that the NCTV is not at all. That's what people think, so those products won't come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u111	We actually have two specific requests to the Minister in this debate. One is recovery. It's a good thing the Minister says it shouldn't have been, but two is: how are we going to fix that? I'll get back to you on that. But before we can fix it, as a party, as a group, as a Chamber, we need to know who the malicious, false reports about the PVV and Mr Wilders were sent to. That applies to all PVV people. The party chairman, Geert Wilders, has been dragged through the mud; that is why all PVV's have been dragged through the mud; so 1 million voters have been dragged through the mud. We want to know who these reports are sent to: to which embassies, to which intelligence services, to which services in the Netherlands, to which policy makers. Who have all received those lists, those malicious, false messages about the PVV? I would like to have a list of this from the Minister before the start of the second term. Then we can also talk more clearly about the recovery: how is the Minister going to recover? But first, the information request: to whom were all these malicious messages sent? I'd like a list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u112	I have already indicated that I understand very well the criticism and inconvenience of Mr Markuszower and his other colleagues. In his question he suggests that we only shared very targeted information about the PVV. Of course, that is not the case. Those weekly messages are widely distributed. It's also in the letter. Perhaps it would be good if Mr Markuszower took another look at that letter, for it says that it went, for example, to municipalities, to other partners and indeed sporadically to foreign colleagues, colleagues from NCTV; not systematically to foreign services. The countries concerned are also included in that letter. So if you want something additional on that, I am obviously prepared to see if I can deliver it even today, but I was assuming that it was already good in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u113	Thank you for that. I read that letter, but I don't see any names and numbers in it. I see categories, but no names and numbers. We just want to know who it was sent to. To which municipalities, to which intelligence service or agent of an intelligence service? Maybe it was sent to embassies? Maybe it was sent to organizations? Who was it sent to? I've seen the categories in the letter, but I'd like to know specifically. Then we can go on, because I hope the Minister will promise that she will restore it and check that it is well restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u114	Two things. The letter states which countries, for example. I cannot also raise the names of civil servants, because I would, in my opinion, do something that we already conclude with each other, which is precisely the kind of thing that you should be very reluctant to do. But those countries, such as Belgium and Germany, are also included in that letter. The most important thing is to say that it shouldn't have been. I hope the Chamber shares that with me. Stopping it happened last year. Furthermore, we must ensure that it does not come back, because that is real recovery in practice. I thought that was rather relevant myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u115	I need to be a little careful with the number of interruptions. I hope that the Minister will now become concrete. I just want to know specifically: to whom? So not: which countries. If the names need to be blacked out, I'll understand. But I'd like to know which intelligence service that official was. That can be shared. To which agencies in the Netherlands has it been sent? Maybe it was sent to embassies, too? Again, the letter is very broad. Perhaps in the eyes of the Minister very specific, but I think it is still too broad. I would like to know specifically who received those messages when. Names and numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u116	I say to Mr Markuszower that I am looking at whether I can become even more concrete between now and the second term on this matter than we already are in the letter. A small profit warning: I thought we were pretty concrete, but I'd like to take another shot. Now that I'm saying this, I know there's all kinds of people watching us get it even sharper. Let's see if this worked out in the second term or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u117	Thank you for that. Then to recovery. We, as PVV, are actually demanding very concretely: restore those messages. Bad reports have been sent, for example about the PVV and about the party leader of the PVV. Malicious allegations; we've been demonized. That actually applies to all our constituents. As a result, 1 million voters have been demonized and dismissed as half Nazis. We consider that to be incorrect, but in addition to the fact that it is incorrect, it was also, of course, illegal. It shouldn't have happened. It shouldn't have happened. Will the Minister say: that has been illegal? We would like the Minister to send a letter to all those services and to all those employees of those services, both at home and abroad and to all those recipients of that list, saying that we should not have done so, and it is also wrong. But anyway: we shouldn't have done it; we shouldn't have said this about Wilders and about the PVV and about all those PVV's.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u118	We stopped last year, so all those recipients have not been receiving weekly reports since March, because we have also said: there is no good basis for this. Now I am also saying here as a minister in plenary: this really should not have happened. I do not know whether we are going to find each other on this, but in the second term let me come back to the question of exactly what this is about. Then I can make it a little more concrete. But quite honestly: if I say here and put it on paper "this should not have happened, we are not going to do it anymore and it hasn't happened for over a year," that is quite a recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u119	You will return to this in more concrete terms in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u120	We do not think that this is enough, especially not to go abroad. What the minister is saying here in this Chamber may not reach all those employees of all those intelligence services who have been reported by NCTV about the PVV. On this point, I will table a motion. It is very disappointing that the Minister does not want to correct the mistakes she has made and the false image that has been outlined about the PVV in front of all the recipients of those messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u121	Mr Van Baarle van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u122	I really do not understand how the Minister concludes that what she says would be sufficient: simply the expression 'we should not have done it and we are not going to do it anymore'. And that while a political party here in parliament has been dismissed by a government service as a threat to the rule of law simply because that political party stands up against discrimination. That's a serious accusation, and surely you won't get away with it by simply saying "we shouldn't have done that and we're not gonna do that anymore"? Well, then, excuses are in order. Then it is indeed in place to find out exactly who that is shared with. The government has spread this image to others and then it is in place for the government to correct that image. Then how can the Minister indicate that what she is doing is sufficient? It's not even the beginning of something that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u123	I think that is the same question as Mr Markuszower's. The elements I can go into more concretely will be dealt with in the second term. Then I say again that I do not think it should have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u124	If the Minister states that something should not have happened, it is an admission of guilt, that something went very badly, that something illegal has happened. Well, at least you'll straighten that out. Then at least you'll put the pertinent lies right with the parties you've shared those pertinent lies about. My question to the Minister is as follows. She's gonna find out if she can be more concrete about who it's been shared with, but why isn't she willing to put it right and do the message to all those parties: what we've been spreading is a lie; we're not behind it; this is not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u125	I have already told you, and I have just said that we stopped this week's messages last March. I have indicated that personal opinions about politicians from any employee on our side cannot apply anywhere. And I said that those weekly messages aren't coming back at all. And that's not even part of the signs. So I understand that there are MPs here who say: this bothers me; I hate this; I do not want this to happen anymore. But that's exactly what's happening here. It stopped over a year ago and it's not coming back. Moreover, we are right to talk about it again today and I say: this simply should not have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u126	Let me make it very specific with the gross accusation that our party would be a threat to the rule of law. I believe that we are a political party elected to parliament and we are doing our job on democratic principles. That is simply because we are fighting against discrimination. That's what was said. If the Minister is not prepared to rectify this on behalf of the Dutch Government to anyone who has these messages circulated, then I can only conclude that the Minister still thinks so. After all, a service of the Dutch Government has distributed these messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u127	Those weekly messages were made on the NCTV's own initiative. Those aren't mine. The assignment wasn't from my predecessor either. And it is certainly not for me, not today or later, to explain to what parties would or would not stand for. So I think it is very important to say from my role: those weekly messages rightly stopped more than a year ago. It is right that we should stress once again that these personal opinions do not belong in them. And it's even more justified that they don't come back either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u128	Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u129	Of course, I fully endorse Mr Van Baarle's comments and requests. The thought that as an individual, being part of a group that is systematically marginalized and demonized, you are committed to making the country in which you live better, and then actually being punished with the automatic suspicion that you are a danger to the same rule of law that you so much want to serve, is a very painful conclusion. If anything causes polarization, it is. My question is this. There are MPs here who really want satisfaction for their own party. They have been followed, demonised and reflected in terrorist profiles. But what about civilians? If Members of Parliament are asking to know who the information was shared with, the Minister says: well, I would like to see if I can meet it in the second term. But there are citizens who have also been unjustly followed by NCTV and whose information has also been wrongly shared with all kinds of services, including international security services. These people don't have a leg to stand on and find zero on the reeks everywhere. How do these citizens get their rights, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u130	It's not like the people Mrs Simons is talking about don't have a leg to stand on. Definitely not. They may have access to the NCTV to what is or is not on paper about them. I have to say that there are no separate dossiers, not citizens, not politicians, not parties. But if you want to know what your name is in, you can submit a GDPR request. That's official. Then you can see that. Then if you like that, you can just get right. That is the process and people have used it in the past. Anyone who wishes to do so can, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u131	It is good that the Minister presents the paper reality here. That's how it's done. But a lot of citizens, including citizens who are watching now, know that it doesn't work that way. They've been trying to figure out how they've been watched by NCTV. They have tried, in all kinds of ways, including through the right, to find out with which foreign security services information about them has been shared. But they're getting zero on the record. So we are actually seeing what we see very often, namely that we think that we have managed things well, while citizens are systematically getting the lid on. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she would not like to go into that procedure again, whether she is prepared to do so and whether she is prepared to let us as a Chamber know how all the obstacles have been removed and what results this will lead to. Are there any citizens who have managed to achieve their rights along the usual paths? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u132	I will certainly dive into that, because the point that Mrs Simons is touching is a very important point for me. You should always check whether what we think we know here in this house, or what I think I know in my office, actually works out that way in practice. I'll always share that. I base my answer on previous cases, which I know people have done such an appeal and have been given access to. But I think it is a good question from Mrs Simons that she says: look how far that has gone and whether others will get there too. If it allows me, I would like to include the explanation from my side in what I have promised to Mr Omtzigt and Mr Azarkan: we will continue to see how we can look at it. It is a very broad, complex question, and I do not want to repeat it here in three years' time: it is still being examined. That is why I am looking for a way to answer that question in a good, but also manageable way for myself and the Members of Parliament. That is exactly how I deal with Mr Omtzigt's question, and I am taking this question with me, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u133	Of course I am very pleased with this answer, so thank you for that. Then I have one more question. If I received an e-mail three years ago, which says 'beware of Minister Yeşilgöz, because that is a very dangerous woman', and that e-mail has not been contradicted in the last three years by the same channel, then it may be that a year ago people came to the conclusion that it is not all that bad, but that I am still on that assumption. The fact that these letters have been stopped is not yet a recovery. That's not like admitting it wasn't right. I would very much like to come back to that. The fact that those letters have ceased does not mean that the picture has been corrected by the different parties who received them. I hear the Minister say to MPs: it's fixed, because we don't do it anymore. However, I would like to stress that an error is no longer an error until it has been corrected. So I would like to ask the Minister again whether she is prepared to send out a message, so that the people who have been followed and what files have been made about politicians, citizens, activists, you can at least be sure that they no longer have a sticker on their head.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u134	I am happy to include this in my second-term commitment to see how and what I can make of it. The fact that I explicitly say that these are also personal opinions of employees who simply should not have been in there shows that there is not an analysis underneath which is also carried out by all kinds of other services, so it should have been included. In this week's letter, I am explicit about that. But I hear what Mrs Simons is saying. Allow me to return to that in the second term, combined with Mr Markuszower's question as to what more we can do. Maybe we disagree, but then I also have something more concrete for myself; and maybe we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u135	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Markuszower. It was just a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u136	That last answer then prompts me to ask a small question of order, so no interruption. I thought the Minister would only come back in second term on my request for that list, but is the Minister now saying that she is also going to look at a letter to the Chamber about recovery in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u137	No, I just want to come back to that point. I want to be able to discuss whether we know... because I hear here that it has to go back to exactly everyone who has ever had it. I wouldn't know if I could. I wouldn't know if it adds anything if I sent an extra letter to the Chamber on top of this week's letter and what I'm literally saying here. So that's what I'd like to discuss with my people at JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u138	You will return to that in the second term. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u139	I would like to continue with the point that Mr Simons has just made. Minister Grapperhaus promised me during Question Time last year that citizens whose personal data had been wrongly used would be proactively informed about it. It's been over a year now. As far as I know, that still hasn't happened. I would therefore like to urge the Minister to take this with him, because there are people who have suffered a great deal from this. I would find it very strange that we can arrange here for a few parties to get some kind of satisfaction, but that we forget the people who spent ten months here with attorney fees and I know what was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u140	I'll check the state of that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u141	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u142	I immediately ended up with Mrs. Van der Werf. She had a rather bigger question: how does the Minister look at all these abuses? We are talking about weekly reports today, but I know that your Chamber also had a lot of debates last year. I know we even had this subject here when I was a Member of Parliament myself. Mrs Van der Werf asked: do you think it should not happen anymore? She said she's hoping for a full-scale yes. Of course, I can say that: yes. Analyses of the NCTV should be factual and remain within the framework of the General Data Protection Regulation. When preparing the weekly reports, Internet monitoring also sounded, as mentioned, in a number of cases, opinions about politicians. You shouldn't have. I agree with the question. I think you should have a clean slate here in that sense, so that we can go on afterwards and also know with the legal treatment what we come up with and whatever we decide with each other, that is the way that you will do it right in the future. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u143	A question from Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u144	Perhaps the Minister will come back to it, because, of course, she has just begun her introduction and is already subject to a barrage of questions. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u145	It's part of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u146	...that's what we're here for. Farmers Defence Force, FDF, is also initially called an "extremistic organization." The definition of extremism is that goals or means are deployed outside the legal framework, including sometimes violence. "This often makes them undemocratic and even antidemocratic and a threat to the democratic rule of law." That was literally said about FDF. Politics has taken it, the media has taken it. Then that was corrected and the NCTV said: no, they are not extremists; it is not an extremist organisation, but an activist organisation. In the case of activism, it is also quite clearly stated that this is within the framework of the democratic rule of law and that no violence is being used. There has been a trial and there has been a correction; I do not know if there has been an apology. But the NCTV also had the obligation to send a memo to the minister about this and to send that memo to the House of Representatives. Well, I've been looking for it myself for a while. It may also be that I missed that, because the flow of Parlis messages here... People in the Netherlands: Parlis is a system through which we get notifications and that is really a lot, just for the sake of clarity. That may be so, but I am curious to see if that memo has come to the House of Representatives, because it still happens here in the debates that MPs speak in the vein of "terrorist" or "terrorist" farmers. I just want to put a line on that right away. I just want us to stick to the facts here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u147	If that note's been there, I'll check it out. I don't know. I also remember when I was a MP that Parlis was a real avalanche sometimes. So I don't know, but I'm checking. I can go into it now, anyway. Then we can see if that note has been there or if we still have to write it down. Where the NCTV makes mistakes, as I just admit here, also on such a subject, you mention that of course. The NCTV has also been pointed out by the organisation of the Farmers Defence Force. That was about the Threat Statue 52. If you read that, you could read that the Farmers Defence Force would be an extremist organization. That is what Mrs van der Plas is right to say, and she is right to say so. There has been a great deal to be done about this, and that really is a misunderstanding. So it's a good thing that's on the table. It should have been described as... no, it stands as an activist organization. No, let me do it differently. Now I'm gonna read it all to you, but that's confusing. In any event, the NCTV clarified that this was a mistake. This has been clarified on the NCTV website. I think it is important to check this out, including for Mrs van der Plas. I know that's what she's looking for. We hope that this will have removed any misunderstanding. I'm about to check whether that was shared on paper, or if that was promised, exactly how that went, but I've certainly been informed by the NCTV that there has been a lot of contact and that they have looked carefully and said: this shouldn't have been in it. That was corrected online anyway. Then I was with Mr Van Nispen, who asked: does the Minister recognise that people can feel less free and watched, especially when you look at what we are talking about today? Yeah, and that's what I wrote in the letter. Freedom of speech, feeling free is also something you need to experience. Otherwise, it's nice to say it, but it's not worth a damn. If you look at the things that haven't gone well here, I imagine there are MPs or journalists who say, "Wait a minute, what happened here?" That is why I think it is so important to be very clear about it and to say that it has stopped and that will not come back. As far as I am concerned, after that, we are still a little detached from the foundations, because here is never a basis for the NCTV what the NCTV will and will not do. So, yeah, if people have that feeling, I can't admit anything but that. I was also assuming that I was very clear about that in the letter. I think it is extremely important that people at home do not feel watched, just like MPs here or anyone else. I think that actually covers the load. This is just the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u148	I welcome the generous recognition of that important fact. And yes, it was in the letter, but sometimes I think you should also be able to express and repeat important questions in the debate. I think it's going a little further. Let me illustrate this as follows. For example, there are activists in Groningen who were activist against the ruins that the government organized, so earthquake victims whose houses were not repaired, people who took action against them. Those people face a government that crushed them and then refuses to solve their problems. Super bad for trust in the government, as far as it's still there. And then you'll find out that same government, the Ministry, is following you. What does that do with trust in the government? With that, I want to illustrate how bad this is. So it goes one step further than freedom of speech and the importance of expressing yourself and thinking you're unwatched. So it's the same government that's crushing you and not solving your problems that's watching you again because she thinks you're a security threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u149	Mr. Chairman. I don't want to take anything away from that feeling. Period. There's not gonna be a "but," but something's gonna come up. Mr Van Nispen says that people are being followed, watched, followed. It's not like that here. That didn't happen. There's a reason I stay away from that all the time, which is that I get the feeling. I will also look at what I think at least these tasks should look like for the NCTV, knowing that we are going to have a great deal of work on this in the autumn. I think it's good to name that, too. There has been no question of targeting people here. What did happen is that the moment you try to map phenomena, what happens in society? It may be that Mr Van Nispen tweets about something, gets thousands of likes and gets a huge effect. Then you know: okay, this lives in society. At the same time, I think that at least the government should understand these elements, otherwise you're in your ivory turret and you think you know what the world looks like when you don't know it. But, of course, I also understand what happens next, which is why we are having this conversation. That is why I use a little more words to say: it is not so that from the NCTV there are people who say they are going... No, it's not. But it is a reason why we are having this conversation, so let's come back to what exactly this autumn should look like and what safeguards are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u150	I'm not the best example, because I never get thousands of likes. Maybe that's because I don't twitter. This raises the following question for me. The minister says: if you describe, analyze and point phenomena, then sometimes personal data come up. But the AIVD does of course already. If you look at all the AIVD's annual reports, you will notice that in some of those annual reports it is also about right-wing extremistism, about accelerationism, about left-wing extremism. So that's what the AIVD does, of course. I'm worried about that, and we might hear more about this later. The minister says: no, targeted tracking of individuals and organisations does the AIVD, but analyzing phenomena does the NCTV. I'm trying to avoid overlaps. I want a clear difference between those two. Because no, that analysis of phenomena is exactly what the AIVD does. That's why I think it's so risky. I am a little afraid that we will come to the conclusion that we will continue to do what we did in the future. And then we say: yes, we need a legal basis anyway, because individuals and organisations still come out without following them. That's a very risky thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u151	Yeah, I'll come up with that later. But I fully share Mr Van Nispen's view that you should not have a kind of intelligence service next to the intelligence services that would not be covered but would be a bit separate from it. That is certainly not my approach, nor is it the approach of my predecessor or of the NCTV. And that is certainly not the reason why the bill has been completed as it is now. I know that there are differences of opinion on this and I will come to that. I also come to the difference between the AIVD, the STIVD and the NCTV. But I fully share this point of departure. So if this isn't tight yet, I'd rather see how you get it tight together. Because the task of the NCTV, such as mapping phenomena, is actually a separate task, which is not actually taken up by anyone else. But Mr Van Nispen also said in his first term: whether we do it now or in the direction of legal treatment, or in the course of the legal treatment, we should really consider these tasks. Then what is the added value that is desperately needed? I'll share that. So I'll come to the difference, but I think this is just going to be an important part of the conversation that we're going to have in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u152	I would like to come back to the question of trust, which Mr Van Nispen also mentioned. The worst is perhaps the loss of confidence that has caused the NCTV to act, for example, with an activist in Groningen or a mosque director. That is all the more painful because the NCTV is, of course, directly a minister. So the minister is directly responsible for her administration the NCTV. That is why I ask the Minister whether she has also had a conversation with mosque leaders in response to the messages that have been infiltrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u153	Those conversations were already going on and were already being held by my predecessor. So there had been a lot of conversations already. Then Corona stepped in. As a result, I think the conversations were somewhat less frequent than initially planned. This also came along at the beginning of my period and was also on the table in this context. As far as I know, SZW, so my colleague Van Gennip, had also taken over and arrested those conversations. So there was already a whole trajectory going on. And there have also been a lot of contacts from the NCTV, from the officials. So yes, I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet. That is why I am trying to tear things apart very purely. I'll tell you what didn't go well. That's what I'm saying. That's what I think, and that's not gonna happen again. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise the importance of the elements that I do want to maintain. I'm trying to tear these things apart so we can talk about that. But there have indeed been a lot of contacts with drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u154	That's good to hear. I myself have spoken to a number of people about these mosques and I have heard what this has done to them. I think that we should be deeply ashamed of that and, above all, see how we can restore that trust. Is the Minister prepared to hold some of these talks himself, or to have one conversation with mosques directors? After all, the Minister is directly responsible for the NCTV. I think that can help restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u155	Of course. If that helps restore trust, then so be it. It's part of my job, including as Minister of Honor. We'll plan that conversation anyway. I hope it works for the treatment of the law here. Otherwise it's gonna be, but I'm definitely gonna take this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u156	On the subject of mosque authorities investigations, which my colleague Azarkan also referred to in his term. As far as DENK is concerned, it is a great shame that secret investigations have been conducted into mosque authorities. The Minister states that it should not have been. Does it also share the conclusion that these collusive investigations were totally unlawful?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u157	I think this was discussed in detail last year. I don't know if we should go through this whole debate again. Apologies have been made. It's all on the table. Exactly as Mrs Ellemeet says, a great deal of confidence has then begun to be restored. I think you do that by staying honest if things don't go well today, we're talking about the weekly reports, and by being very careful about how you're going to do it in the future. If I am not mistaken, this has already been discussed in great detail with my predecessor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u158	That's right. It has been discussed in detail. But I'm asking for the Minister's qualification right now. Is it prepared to indicate that this approach, namely the secret investigation of mosques, was unlawful? Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u159	Where the NCTV or other organisations which are not competent to do so carry out collusive investigations, this is unlawful. Then you shouldn't. There will be other organisations competent to do so. If they consider that necessary, I am not talking about mosque authorities, but in general they should be able to do so. I understand the question, but he's so general and this was such a clear case that I've been talking about very carefully, that I want to make sure that I'm going to say things that are going to interfere with that. But I fully agree with what my predecessor has said about this and with his actions afterwards, also towards the governing bodies. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u160	Your last question, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u161	Well, that's the last question. As far as I am concerned, the conclusion that there has been unlawful action in the direction of the mosque authorities means that the government must have a much more active role in the direction of the people involved. I get the impression that a lot of people are still not getting clear from the side of their congregation whether this happened, exactly what happened to it and when it happened. The letters I receive from the government always refer to'municipalities must take care of it', while this has been done on the recommendation of a national service and by national means. Can the Minister not promise that it is time for the government to investigate this externally, so that we know on what scale that happened, where it happened and what happened? Then we can also give this to the people who did this, because they still run into the problem of not being told what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u162	Mr Van Baarle himself says it: because it can be very different per municipality. I know that this conversation has just taken place in many municipalities in a very honest way and that it has done well. So I do not share the view that nothing would have happened, quite the contrary. That is precisely why I refer to the extensive debates here and then to the actions of my predecessor and SZW colleagues who have done so. I also think it's good, but that would be my idea and my advice... We're very clear about what didn't go well, but I'm also very clear about what I do need the NCTV for. That's what we'll be talking about in the autumn. I would very much like to have that conversation with each other in a way that allows everyone to have confidence in it, if we then move on with each other. This is a longer journey than just looking back. I want to be able to look forward, too. I want both. But indeed, municipalities have all been in the lead. I know that a lot of congregations have spoken. We are talking about it again now, so if there are any municipalities at the moment with a new council thinking "we need to set this up again," then I would like to call on them to do so. But I can't pull it all towards me from here. Then I wouldn't be able to live up to it either, and that doesn't help confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u163	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u164	Then I have a question from Mrs Mutluer, and I think Mr Azarkan too. Mrs Mutluer's literal question was: can NCTV permanently stop reporting on political parties? There are no reports about political parties, so that makes permanent stopping clear. As far as the weekly reports are concerned, I will say again that they were permanently discontinued last year. They're not coming back. It might be good to stress that there are no separate reports about individuals or political parties. I've had a lot of questions about the bill. I will go into that, but I have chosen to do so briefly. I have had a lot of questions from the Chamber about that proposal. I'd like to do justice to those questions. I know that there are Members of Parliament who say: make pace, because there is still important work to be done because we cannot do that. I agree with that. But I would like to look carefully at those questions and also see how the law can be adapted so that a large majority of people would be totally happy to accept them. I think it is very important that we share what the NCTV is for and that it does so in a good way. Of course I have written down all the questions, but this was a small introduction why I do not go into them in detail, namely because I would like to be able to answer all the questions properly. That's what we're in the middle of. Mrs Ellemeet's question was immediately a fundamental one: does the Minister think it would be useful to continue with the legislative proposal? Oh, yeah. With a bill, I'm sure. I think that the proposal, as it stands, offers good frameworks. I have heard the comments and questions from the Chamber, but also wider, well. That is why I say: let me look closely at what is being proposed from the Chamber and where the concerns lie, so that we can see how we can adapt it in a way that can be more widely accepted. I'd like that the most. The tasks of the NCTV, both the coordination and the analysis tasks, are really very important. I hope that I can give a little kick-off on that for now, but we need to think about it a little longer. Those tasks are so important that I want to anchor them well. Those are not tasks that I suddenly want to add. Nor are these additional powers, as I have heard today. None of that has anything to do with it. It's about anchoring the original tasks the NCTV always had. But we have been many years since 2004, Mrs Michon said so. Much has happened in our society. We have also brought together all kinds of new legislation, such as the GDPR. That's perfectly right. So it's also good that they looked: is it still enough? No. That's what we've noticed. A majority of the House has said: come up with new foundations. I heard people say here and there that the behavior is rewarded with a law. Frankly, I find that rather disrespectful about the role of the Chamber and what we are doing with each other. There's a room motion to come up with a good foundation. That's what we're trying to do now. That's actually what it is. Mrs Van der Werf asked: is the Minister prepared to amend the law so that no investigation is carried out into persons? She added the latter. The bill as it stands now states that there is no investigation of persons. So that's already in the law. If that is not clear enough, it could certainly be one of the elements that we are involved in in order to strengthen it even better. Let me put it this way that research aimed at individuals or organisations is reserved for the AIVD and STUDY regarding intelligence, and for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office for investigation and prosecution. Those aren't tasks the NCTV takes over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u165	What I'm looking for is what the NCTV's unique added value is when it comes to the analysis task. I read your letter from Tuesday, the day before yesterday. Then I can see that it's about watching social media, checking phenomena online. It is about public information that we can all actually see. Is the Minister saying that the added value of the NCTV is that the AIVD's intelligence is being checked on Twitter or viewed online? Because that is what it comes down to every time in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u166	No, anything but. That was also a question from Mrs Michon. I took it with me right away. She asked: what is the explanation of the analysis task of the NCTV? In order to be able to identify and identify developments in the field of national security, and to get an integrated picture, you need an analysis task. That's the explanation. I have some examples, but maybe it's good to explain this in more detail. So it is extremely important that NCTV has an early view of what lives in society. It is not aimed at individuals or organisations, but it is precisely the broad development in society that can affect national security. Our intelligence agencies are really working on other things. They are not concerned with this broad development, with anticipation and with seeing what is coming. They do when it starts to be very concrete with intelligence. That's something else. The NCTV analyses are carried out, in addition to its own open-source investigations, through information which the NCTV receives from the intelligence and security services, but also from municipalities, police and the public prosecutor. For me, a very concrete example was the following. Last May there was a terrorist attack in Buffalo, in the United States. Ten people were killed. Logically, several people then look at the NCTV for an explanation. Are we currently at risk in the Netherlands that there are groups who feel affected by this and want to translate it into our society? The shooter posted a manifesto online. If you could read and interpret that, you can then, with all the information and knowledge you have, also of the surroundings as I just outlined, make a translation. But in the manifest there are personal data, because that guy wrote it down. That's why the NCTV can't read the whole manifesto right now. They're gonna drop holes like that right now. If that could have been done, that analysis could have been a very quick action. The AIVD makes specific information messages about the danger. The AIVD cannot then share widely with municipalities, with local actors, so that they are alert. That's exactly the job of NCTV. It doesn't have the power to sit behind the comma on personal data, but with its power it has the role to help municipalities by saying: okay, now you have to pay attention; this can happen in your municipality. We can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u167	The minister is now pretending that NCTV is the only organization within the security domain that could act on an attack as happened in Buffalo. The police and intelligence can do much more than the NCTV. They can also, of course, simply look at public sources and make analyses. Our whole point is right: you don't need that specific analysis task at all. The minister is always acting like we need some kind of third-party intelligence service and are failing now. What exactly do you say to the AIVD and the STUDY?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u168	They hear this story very well. They see this added value, because they have a different task. What they do is then dive in, track down people. But what the NCTV is doing is bringing together all the information from open sources and the information it gets and thus actively from a different role, that of coordinating, getting into work, which two roles are quite relevant together, for example with municipalities, for example with other local partners, for example for the government. It's just a different interpretation. The other services mentioned by Mrs van der Werf, quite rightly, are at that time working on something else, something very important, namely the concrete, immediate security of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u169	The AIVD indicated in the round table itself that they are not waiting at all for the NCTV sauce about their intelligence. What is de facto happening is that the services and the police arrive at NCTV with their facts. I say it disrespectfully, but that is what it comes down to in your letter: the NCTV is going to tweet what people and some phenomena are looking for. And that would be supposedly necessary to indicate the information he has long received from organizations that have far more powers to look for it than the NCTV itself. Isn't that crooked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u170	Then I would like to invite Mrs Van der Werf to visit a few mayors alone. What the AIVD said there was: we want our messages and messages to land unfiltered where we want them to land. Of course, that's what's happening. The NCTV adds information to that if necessary. And that is the element that the AIVD is rightly not doing at all. That's what the AIVD literally said. The point is that they want that unfiltered... Where necessary, the NCTV, AIVD and STIVD work very well together, because they all have their own, separate role. Well, I also hope that we will be able to reflect on this later, when the law is being dealt with. The crux of what we have seen going very well in recent years and what is missing now is the early detection of phenomena. That's why the NCTV was once set up. That's what it's meant to be. I know. Mayors have been speaking to me for months now: when is this law coming, because I miss the role of NCTV. That is why I know that it had added value. I'm not trying to create a separate intelligence service here, anything but. I am not waiting for that myself and the NCTV, as I know, is not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u171	For the clarity, for the viewers. The Minister is confusing a few things now. I think there are two different things. On the one hand, that is the whole intelligence story, in which the Minister states that open source research adds value to the intelligence of the services. But the first step in the investigation of the services themselves is also to consult public sources. That's what the services say. So that's not something unique for the NCTV at all. They don't need that either. When I ask critical questions about this, the Minister keeps reminding me that the mayors need the NCTV so badly. This is the coordinating role of the NCTV, but that is not what we are talking about. The Chamber is critical of this task of analysis and says that it is not necessary. I don't hear a satisfactory answer to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u172	Well, Mrs. Van der Werf will hear that, but she doesn't agree or she doesn't want to hear it. That's something else. Municipalities, local authorities, partners, on the contrary, also need this early analysis task of NCTV. It's one coordination and analysis. And that's what they say. So, yes, you don't have to take it from me; you can visit the mayors. If a municipality hears that a phenomenon is developing and learns what it looks like, it can act on it much earlier and take much earlier and much more targeted preventive measures. That then has nothing to do with personal data or with information that an NCTV should not be included in. No, that's the task of analysis that was once thought up for that reason. Well, as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna see how we can define it so well that this discussion... I get it, because you don't want it to go like this; you want it to add something. It has done very well in recent times, and I also believe that it can do so in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u173	Finally, Mrs Van der Werf. One last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u174	Do I understand the Minister that that particular addition she's talking about is on the analysis branch? Or is it part of the coordinating task?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u175	I'm not talking about a specific addition. I am talking about anchoring the two competences, coordinating and analysing whether it can indicate what is going on in society. I have an example with Mr Klaver. I am standing here, three weeks, four weeks ago, during oral Question Time. He says to me, "I want you as a minister to analyse the NCTV about what's going on with the far right in this country." He says, "I want an analysis of how that develops now." I am partly stuck on that, because the NCTV cannot analyse some of those elements. That's what it is. I will come back to that example a little longer. But when we deal with the law later, I'm not looking for additional powers. I'm gonna say that again. I've said that a few times. I understand that it comes back to the questions, but perhaps I should emphasise it a few times: I am not looking for additional powers. That's just not what the law is about. It's about an anchoring of what we already needed the NCTV for. Now we look again: what does our time now say and what is needed for a good foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u176	I think this is at the heart of the whole debate. What we are all critical of now is the added value of the NCTV, if you compare it with an AIVD and a STUDY. The example of the attack in Buffalo was also in the letter. But why shouldn't the AIVD or STUDY be able to consult that kind of open source? I would simply like, through you, Mr President, to have a concrete answer from the Minister. These open sources can then simply be placed next to a closed source of those services. Then an equally good and in my opinion perhaps much better picture can be obtained of a threat from a certain angle. This example is based on proper regulation. And there's surveillance. That is the heart of our debate here. There's our criticism. I just want a clearer answer from the Minister on this added value and why all this cannot be done by an AIVD and a STUDY. Maybe they can even better and better secure that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u177	I never said that the AIVD and the STUDY couldn't understand such a manifesto. Of course they can. They're investigating that. But they have a completely different assignment. They're covered by the Wiv. The research they get out of it and what they have to do with it is at a completely different level. With their research results, they cannot say at all towards municipalities: I see such a development now. Because they are based on very special personal data, to which they are competent. That's not their job at all. So it is not at all that the NCTV can do other things than an AIVD or a STUDY. The AIVD and the STIVD can go much further and it should stay that way. The task of the NCTV is simply another one. That task is analyzed so that you can have that analysis yourself and thus take steps towards municipalities and towards local partners. Mrs Mutluer is right that that is the essence of the debate, but that is not this debate. Because we're not discussing the bill today. I have just said that I have heard several comments, but, more importantly, I have had a lot of questions from the Chamber on the legislative proposal. I'd like to be given the opportunity to find some of that. So she is right that it is a key issue, but not of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u178	I think it would be very good if the Minister listened to the criticism. Because at the moment when this criticism is not taken into account and does not lead to any amendment of the bill, I suspect, having heard my colleagues, that the bill is not going to make it. But that aside. The Minister also made a comment about the phenomenon analyses. That was just about phenomena and not so much about people. Look, the weather is a phenomenon. But people are always involved in the phenomenon of left-wing sextremism. Does the Minister agree with me that you can't just do phenomenon analyses? Maybe I am ahead of the legislative proposal, but when that is not properly secured in legislation and regulation and is not properly supervised, then we are going to have some sort of surveillance company. That is the fear that we now point to as Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u179	That is precisely why the Internet monitoring has stopped and why the Chamber has asked for a basis. That is to be able to do exactly what Mrs Mutluer refers to. She is right in saying that phenomena are not just general abstract stories. For example, you can retrieve them from open sources, and those open sources may contain personal data. That was said last year and the years before: wait a minute, because this must be given a better basis. That is why your Chamber has said that we must come up with that. That is exactly what the conversation will be, hopefully in the autumn: what do you need to point out those particular phenomena, which we do think are important for them to be detected early, in addition to what is already happening in the security domain? What information do you need for that? And do you agree that the NCTV can work with that? If so, what basis is needed for this? Those are the steps that go with that. I said literally to Mr Van Nispen: give me the time to give a proper answer to the questions that have arisen about that law, to see how I can adapt it. So it is clear that I am listening to the criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u180	We are going to see this in the light of the legislative proposal that will be submitted to us, whether or not in a modified form. We'd love to see that. I just want to get back to the core. I think the Minister is really getting ahead of himself. Ultimately, the core of the question and of the criticism is: should the NCTV carry out these tasks? Why can't the AIVD and the STUDY do that? Then we give the NCTV the coordinating role to organize the place. At the moment, the Minister has not convinced me of this. I just want to say that. It's a comment, not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u181	I would like to thank the Minister for clearly outlining the added value of NCTV, where there is currently no analysis and coordination. With the letter of 13 May in mind, I ask: how can we be sure that the threat level is currently 3? The Minister cannot make whole parts of these analyses now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u182	That was indeed one of the questions. The threat level is not only created by the analysis of the NCTV, but also by cooperation between different partners. I am convinced that if one of the partners can temporarily do a little less, the other parties will be able to accept this. They shouldn't replace each other or do each other's work, but they should complement each other. At the moment that is not ideal, but I am convinced that threat level 3 is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u183	That's partly reassuring. The analysis and coordination tasks cannot therefore be carried out now. Does that mean that some of the municipalities will not be able to take up their preventive tasks? The AIVD and the STIVD cannot share the analyses with them at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u184	It could be. The tricky thing is, I don't know what I don't know. That's the situation we're in right now. That is probably why Mrs Michon says: hurry up with that law. I get that. I want to get out of this situation, too. We had thought that the legal treatment would take place before the summer. However, I said that I want to do this after the summer, because I want to know exactly what is happening. But it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u185	Rounding up. I understand, therefore, that it does not mean that it is, but that there is a possibility that some preventive tasks can be carried out less effectively, because the analyses are not available to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u186	Yeah, it could be. It is not that we are looking for extra work and that is why we say that the task of analysis is so important. It is precisely because it really adds information, so that municipalities can take preventive action in this case. There are, of course, a number of things that are still going on in connection with the coordinating task. As far as I'm concerned, that's just as worrying. Think of the case-discussion in the municipalities about the concerns that there are about people who are released after detention. These consultations can be fed by intelligence from the intelligence services, but that can of course also be done by caring for other partners. It can be said in a case-by-case consultation that attention should be paid to certain areas. There's no need for the NCTV. That stays with the municipalities, while you actually want someone who can lift the task to a higher level. It could then look at what is happening in the area, whether it is happening further in the country, and whether people have been released from prison for terrorism at the same time. Then we can look at how to act and what we need to do. These are all tasks for which such a National Coordinator is really needed. However, this cannot be done now, because of the personal data. That is, of course, right, because the basis must be properly regulated. But I just want to point it out in addition to the question. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a philosophical discussion, but something's really going on. We can discuss whether the NCTV should fill that out. I get that. There are concrete proposals for a legislative proposal. The question is whether this is the framework or whether we should do it differently. I understand that conversation. I respect that; therefore I ask for time to see how I can adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u187	I understand the latter, but I do find it problematic what is happening here. Nothing to the detriment of Mr Slootweg, who may ask the questions he wants, but there is a kind of unrest and almost a bit of panic being sown. There is an attack in Buffalo, of which the minister says: yes, and now the NCTV should not even look at such a public message, because there are names in it. And Mr Slootweg actually provokes the statement that NCTV should no longer consult with municipalities, and all kinds of municipalities now turn to the minister and say: well, poehpueh. So an image of fear is being created, which I really wonder if that is the reality. I believe that municipalities will turn to the minister, but then something else will go wrong, because then I have to worry deeply about the work of the AIVD, and I have no reason to do so. I wonder if the Minister does. Because also the AIVD could of course look at what has appeared about the attack in Buffalo. And also the AIVD of course makes those reports in the annual reports and those threat images of what is going on and what is going on. Just the NCTV... that's what I said, among other things. I'm a critic, but I also said you should be able to coordinate. So if there are municipalities with certain problems, then the NCTV, after the information of for example the AIVD, the police, the prosecutor, the probation, etc., would have gathered, which of course should be able to share with a municipality. So let's not pretend national security is at stake now, while everyone is doing their job: AIVD, police, OM and also NCTV, within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u188	I did not have the impression that I or Mr Slootweg pretended to be at stake in national security. I had the impression that we were talking about the fact that the National Coordinator is moving in the field of national security. That's his job. Cyber security, national security, counter-terrorism: these are the areas in which NCTV engages. I see this as a very important task for the NCTV. At the same time, I note that, for justified reasons, some of the elements that I consider important remain silent, because we have not yet had the basic discussion. That is a fact. In doing so, I indicated that it is always supplemented by information from partners, for example when drawing up the terrorist image, so that you are on level 3. I hear several MPs reacting very much towards me as if I were saying that the AIVD is not going to do something or that the STUDY cannot do something. The opposite is true. They have specific tasks in this regard. That's what it's about. A specific task was devised years ago for the NCTV. I believe that the NCTV is necessary and I note that it cannot now carry out part of its task. Part of the solution lies in my hands, because then I must quickly come up with the answers to the questions. The reason I need time for that is because I understand that the law as it stands now requires some amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u189	Again, the latter is a profit anyway; I think that is very good. But I keep having a lot of trouble with the reasoning. In fact, the Minister says: the AIVD conducts research into individuals and organisations and not or to a lesser extent about general phenomena, so we should give NCTV the power to investigate individuals, precisely to describe those general phenomena. It's weird that we're gonna fix that that way, isn't it? There's something else, Mr. Chairman. If the Minister says that these are tasks in the context of national security, then you can say 'we do not call that a third intelligence service', but if they are tasks in the context of national security, then they do include supervision and guarantee tasks. None of this has been organized so far. I have tabled amendments to fix all this, but if the Minister can do better, of course I am open to it. In my view, that is at the heart of today's debate. We cannot talk about the legislative proposal, but we must talk very thoroughly about the tasks and the working methods of the NCTV, otherwise we will really not get anywhere. Then it lingers in the fear: we have to, because otherwise they can't do this and otherwise they can't. I really want to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u190	Yeah, but I want to get rid of that, too. If we have had this fundamental discussion and have perhaps come to something with each other, I want it to be just calm and everyone can do their job. So I want to get rid of that, too. That is not at all something I want to maintain, quite the contrary. That is why I am quoting several examples. It may well be that, in the end, we simply disagree on whether this is a good solution. But then we put it all on the table: what are the tasks and what is needed here? Mr Van Nispen, for example, referred to supervision. I know that's not in the proposal right now. I also know what his proposal is. I do not know if that is the best proposal, to involve the entire Wiv, but I would indeed like to try to see from my role how you could regulate supervision properly, in such a way that the Chamber has a good feeling about it in terms of: okay, then that is in any case secured in that way. So I understand what is being sought, but it is difficult to debate these documents, my supplementary proposals and the answers to the questions put by Members of Parliament are not on the table today. They're not on the agenda. That's why I say, let's have this whole discussion when we have everything on the table, because it's so fundamental that you just want to see it in front of you. That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u191	I understand what the Minister says: we don't have a bill, so what are we talking about? But I very much sympathize with colleagues that this is at the heart of the matter. I would like to make my contribution to this, also to ensure that we will be able to properly assess the legislative proposal in due course. I do not think terms such as analysis and coordination are appropriate, precisely because of the analysis and the independent research role that remains in it. Then we're talking about public resources. Look, that's all bullshit coming out of there. I would say that there is also coordination in analysis. The analysis function is to a large extent the use of existing sources. That's what I read back in the pieces. It's about bringing things more like administrative reporting to us in the Chamber, like the DTN, and to the mayors. I would like to ask the Minister to look very closely at the amendment of the bill to specify those general terms, which are behind all kinds of images and feelings, which, in my opinion, leads to discussions in this kind of case. That's just too bad, because there's no need. These reports are highly appreciated by both the Chamber and the local government. I can at least confirm that, so we have to keep it. The discussion is about the independent task of the NCTV in the analysis function. It's gotta be crystal clear. I would like to ask the Minister if she will take this with her in the amendment of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u192	Definitely. That's how I look at the questions the MPs put to the bill. I understand that it's all very common: "phenomenes" and all that. For those in that field, it is undoubtedly very concrete, but we all need the same picture. So what is it about, do you want to be able to explain certain developments in society? I would point out another difference between what the NCTV and the AIVD deliver. The NCTV reports, whether it's DTN or the cyber security image, that we also release, are not only about threat, but also about resilience and prevention. So it is much wider than what an AIVD is aimed at for example. Then you can say: then the AIVD must do all that. That is a major task extension. Their reports are often state secret and go very deeply into something. The NCTV reports are always public. What I am trying to explain here is that it is two fundamentally different tasks, which we ourselves decided to do years ago. It may well be that you say, "We don't want to do that anymore," but it's not that it suddenly arose as a phenomenon, and then we say, "Is all this really necessary?" It is, of course, the case that the way we look at things has been greatly strengthened and changed over the years. I just mentioned the GDPR. I have, of course, been following and getting the discussions around the NCTV, but also the discussions that the NCTV has had internally, now also from this role. That is why it has been said at some point by the Chamber, but also by the NCTV itself: we stop with a number of products, because that simply requires a good basis and there is no such basis. A number of products, such as the weekly reports, are not coming back either, as I just reconfirmed to Mrs Mutluer. So I think it is very good, but Mrs Michon is right: you must all have the same idea of what you are talking about. I say now: that is easier if we have the legislative text ahead of us, my suggestion for changes and the answers to all these questions. There's been a lot of good questions. I'd like to be able to do justice to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u193	I think we're gonna have a few more questions. Mrs Ellemeet, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u194	I have been very reluctant to go through with this, because I understand what the Minister is saying, namely that otherwise you will have the same debate twice, but I really want to emphasise Mrs Michon's point very strongly. I think she put it very well. It is precisely about that task of analysis and all the vagueness that comes to mind, which allows you to interpret it in different ways. Then you get situations, as we've seen recently, that we don't think are desirable. I still have a need to make one more comment. I hear the Minister say a few times that nothing is added and that we are keeping it as it is, but I think we can all see that, in recent years, as from 2004, there has actually been an increase in the number of jobs. This has gone wrong several times and, to some extent, the Minister now chooses to create a legal basis for some of those additional tasks which the NCTV has allocated itself, but which were not part of the original definition of the powers of the NCTV. We're going to talk more about that. I believe that the way in which the Minister has put it now does not reflect the development that has indeed taken place within the NCTV. We here, about the entire Chamber, have, of course, also appointed a number of abuses. It is therefore a question of exceeding the original powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u195	Almost once, because Mrs Ellemeet leaves out two things. One is that, for example, tasks and products have stopped, such as the weekly messages. So it is not at all that I say: everything that was ever done, I would now like to anchor with the foundation. On the contrary. Furthermore, not only has the NCTV's working methods changed, but everything around us has changed. For example, did you have Twitter in 2004?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u196	I'm afraid so. No? 2004?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u197	I just want to say that our environment has changed enormously. Wherever we can signal the threats, there's been a huge change. The pace with which the threats are going has changed enormously. How the phenomena come to blow over has changed tremendously. You don't need weeks if it happens, because it can land here in half an hour. That doesn't mean you just have to say it all out of the blue: so we have to be able to do everything here. That is why I did not say to Mrs Ellemeet 'I do not agree with you' but 'almost'. There's been a lot of changes, and that's why I think it's... It is a pity that we are going to have the discussion about the foundations as a result of everything that has happened, but it is a good thing that we are going to have it. That is why I want to do this carefully and not stick to: how my predecessor or I had thought of it, that is how we are going to do it. I'm listening, too, because more has happened than what I just said. There have also been cases of privacy violations or other elements. I want everything together: what do we need the NCTV for from my responsibility? Can I convince you of that? Yes or no? And if so, what basis is needed for that? I think that is the point, and that is what we should be talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u198	By the way, Twitter started in 2006. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u199	Of course, there are circumstances that change and, of course, this affects the way things work. But I started of course that we have a track record of situations that as far as my party is concerned just really can't. Let me be honest with you, we're taking that with us. You're looking at the history of an organization. We then ask ourselves: do we still have sufficient confidence in this organisation? I also agree with Mrs Van der Werf and Mr Van Nispen: could you not just invest a number of tasks in the AIVD? I understand that the Minister says that that is another and that some things are completely confidential. But you can also say that some AIVD reports are completely confidential and others are based on public sources. But that's a discussion that we're going to have more extensive when we deal with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u200	If, in anticipation of that discussion, I may add one thing: I hope that... Let me put it another way: I believe very much in the usefulness and necessity of the NCTV and I also believe in the moment in 2004 when it began and developed. I also realize that the same time has changed. We have a different problem, but I think we would be doing a huge shortcoming by saying: well, let the AIVD do something about it. I think this is a lot more fundamental than that. That is why I said to Mr Van Nispen: I understand that you have to look carefully, not only at how you are going to define it, but also at how you are going to ensure it and how you are going to supervise it. So I think that conversation is just part of the legal process, because it's not part of it right now. I think it is good to take all of this along with us and then my final remark... we can give that confidence to the NCTV. That is why I brought it up towards Mrs Ellemeet. If you see the involvement and the way those people are in it, and you also see that they really need a basis through which they can just get on with their work, which is really valuable, then I think we can build that up with each other in that way too. At least, I'd really like to make that effort. That's why I'm telling you so openly and honestly: this wasn't good; that's what we're stopping doing. But I really believe in this and I will come back to it with an adjustment. That's why I'm doing it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u201	We have already discussed this at length, but a short quote from the letter of inquiry: "Immers, if we cannot read what terrorists publish, how can we counter this threat? If we do not remove this threshold with a basis, this will lead to the removal of tasks in the field of national security that cannot easily be taken over by another organisation." The Minister refers, for example, to tweets. But how did we do that before 2006? Were we in a huge danger then, because we...? We couldn't read that back then, could we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u202	I thought there was a concrete reason for the formation of the NCTV, which was then called NCTb.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u203	But it is not true that we did not have any other good means of averting a terrorist threat before 2006. Wasn't that the same way back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u204	We're a long way from here now. We are a long way away, and I mean the intelligence services and how deep they can look, up to and including the expertise the NCTV has. A terrorist threat - that quote can be taken out in different ways - is, of course, also a core task for the AIVD. The AIVD does the same, but the NCTV adds other elements and images, also when it comes to resilience and prevention. None of that is the direct task of the AIVD. In this way, the NCTV can really be a partner of municipalities, for example, to prevent things from happening that we all do not want. That's what's in there. We are not talking about this now, perhaps one sentence is good for the completeness of this debate on the other tasks of the NCTV, for which there is simply a basis. For example, for guarding and securing, you just have the Police Act. But NCTV also plays a role in the application of the Anti-Terrorism Act, if I use the words in the correct order. For various tasks of the NCTV there is therefore simply a basis, which I do not think is at all under discussion. It is perhaps good for the sake of completeness to say that, because the example of terrorism has been cited. But a lot of things have changed around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u205	I would like to add my voice to what Mr Van Nispen said, namely that it looks a little like national security is really at risk because of it. That's what I'm getting myself a little bit out of that letter. But that can't be the case, can it? And that is not how we should convey it to the Dutch, is it? I mean, that alone gives us a sense of insecurity, while I think we have very good services called the AIVD and indeed the D.A. and the police who can bring that all into view, without working with things such as those weekly reports that we have worked with in the past, but from now on we no longer want to work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u206	Mrs van der Plas asks me a question with words I have never used. I've heard that in a few interruptions. Like national security would be in acute danger right now. Of course, I never said that, but if the question is repeated ten times, it will be a thing. So that's what I'd like to give her. What I did say, literally, in my answers here, but I think it is also in the letter, is that NCTV plays a role in the safety chain. AIVD, STUD, P.D., I wouldn't know what to do without the people standing there day and night for our safety. And we have the best in our country. I would add the NCTV, with the specific task we gave the NCTV in 2004, in the period when I believe the first terrorist attacks took place in Europe. If you're looking at the threat of terrorism, then that's what every expert will tell you better than I just moved to online. It's online now. That's where you'll find the perps. That's where you can be preventive. That's where you can see developments. We are talking about Islamic terror, but it can also be about the extreme right or the extreme left. You really need a partner, who coordinates and analyses in a way that the other partners could, but which they are not for. Their products, their services, their tasks are very specific different. That's what I'm trying to say. To Mr Slootweg's question whether I can guarantee that nothing will be missed because these tasks are not being done, I say: I cannot. I believe in the usefulness and necessity of these tasks, but I also said: I do not know what I do not know. 100% security doesn't exist, but I am someone who believes you need the whole domain to keep us as safe as possible. And that is why in the autumn I will at least come up with a proposal on how the NCTV can contribute to this from those specific roles. That's all I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u207	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Van Nispen. I suggest we go to the other category afterwards. Then I think we've talked enough about the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u208	Indeed, I have answered quite a lot by now. Perhaps a very specific question from Mrs Simons. She asked: is the Minister prepared to do justice to the Simons motion? I think she means the motion of 15 June, which states that no additional powers may be conferred on NCTV. Yeah, once. I've been trying to explain this all along: I'm not working on extra powers, but on things that I think are necessary from my part. I hope to be able to explain and anchor them here. But I'm not looking for additional powers, which add something completely different to what the NCTV... Well, what we've been talking about all afternoon and night. Then I think I have answered most of the questions, thanks to the many interruptions. In this folder, huh; I'm not finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u209	I thank the Minister for that, but I will give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u210	You are welcome, these interruptions, I would like to say on behalf of my fellow Members. At the end of this block about the bill... The Minister is going to change the letter sent to the Chamber, which can count on so much criticism. We'll get it in the autumn, together with the answer. But that raises the question as to whether a law that is based on such a misreading is really something to be repaired in the round table. I seriously doubt that. I think, for another reason, that it is wiser, if a law is already needed, according to the Minister; I think some people are still doubting it, so that we can come up with a new law. And also for the following reason: I would be very sorry... "Too bad" is still understatement. I think it would be very bad if the Council of State were to be bypassed, for example, by such a far-reaching letter of amendment and if it were not to be able to consult the parties who are also frequently cited here, who have, in my view, been so critical, rightly, on the first version. I urge the Minister to take advantage of all the fundamental criticisms that have already been made, which are echoed in this Chamber debate today, and to come up with a new law, precisely in order to avoid a waste of time. Because the minister might say that all that takes a lot of time. I think that if you come up with a radical change in the autumn, it may take more time than if the Minister starts again and uses the summer for a Council of State advice, for example. Then perhaps we can come up with a better law faster than an amendment. I just don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u211	I'm not dogmatic in this. I only ask for room to think about it for myself and to see what lies behind it, what has been said and what is wisdom. But I hear what Mr Van Nispen says. If he's okay with it, I'll take it to trial. I myself think it is very important to at least see how we can be as clear and concrete as possible about what this is about, because I share that everyone has a different view of what is now there, and that is not good. We also need to see how you can secure it properly, with proper supervision. Let me see if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay, if it's okay. But I have heard Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u212	Once again, I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Van Nispen of the SP. My question follows on from that. Because the Minister has just said in reply to a specific question I asked: Mrs Simons, don't worry, your adopted motion is safe and is being implemented, because we are not asking for new powers. That brings me to a great compliment for this ruler, because she shows here that in a short time she has become a seasoned ruler under Rutte-so much. 'Cause it's a handy trick. NCTV's out of line. Where he has gone beyond his bounds, the Minister now wants to make adjustments to ensure that these same activities are no longer out of line, but fall within the scope of the rules. So not new compared to what was there, but compared to the commercial practice of the NCTV. In fact, I cannot come to any conclusion other than that we should indeed look at a new law, for the reasons which Mr Van Nispen just mentioned, for example, bypassing the Council of State. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether she understands that it is not entirely pure to say that we are not asking for new powers; we just want to safeguard the powers that we did not have, but we did, in new legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u213	I think we've been debating for hours. I'm trying to put down my dilemmas here as honestly and honestly as possible. If then the reaction is "it must be; you want to get around the Council of State and I don't believe you" then you can, but that makes it difficult for me. I just said that I would very much like to come up with a proposal to amend the law. Then Mr Van Nispen says: there is a lot of criticism, so consider a new one; an advantage is that you could then consult more parties. If I say honestly here in the Chamber 'I would like to listen to that criticism and see how I can change it', I do not think I would want to avoid the Council of State. I don't think it's fair to use that word towards me. The NCTV was established in those years, precisely because there was a great need for a coordinated approach to combating terrorism. We suddenly got to do with something we didn't know on our continent, in our country, in the neighborhood, in the neighborhood. That was right for coordination and analysis. That's not a job that's been thought of. Gradually there have been products, of which we say together: that simply does not fit. Think of the weekly messages, for example. So that's what we've stopped doing. They won't come back, not even with a new law. I'm not gonna lay the foundations for that either. That's just not gonna happen. I'd like to get back to the core task. I therefore agree with the intention of Mrs Simons' motion. I didn't say anything about the exact same thing. Nor does the operative part of that motion require any additional powers. I'm not doing that either. It may well be that Mrs Simons was not in favour of the powers I want to anchor now, ten years ago and in 2004. Then we'll have a discussion about that. I'm not in the middle of a complicated game here. I am trying to find a good anchor for something that I think is very important, namely the use of NCTV as a contribution to our security. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u214	Neither Mr Van Nispen, but he can speak for himself, nor I myself claim that it is the Minister's intention to circumvent the Council of State. It is a result of possible action. So this is not about pointing a finger and saying, well, well, well, you can't be trusted. The point is that it is a result of any well-meant action. That's a consequence we have to take with us. We talk too often in this Chamber about the consequences of moments when we have not been sharp and have not walked pure roads. They have led to policies that have put hundreds of thousands of citizens in incredibly in trouble on all kinds of dossiers. So I ask again that Mr Van Nispen should speak for himself, but that is how I interpreted it to be careful. Let us not now, because we feel hasty that is not there or because we do not want to fully figure out what it is, take steps that can have far-reaching consequences. So I'd really like to get rid of that misunderstanding. I, too, hear that a number of other MPs have also appointed an open attitude to the Minister. But if the Minister answers me 'Mrs Simons, you asked me a question and this is the answer' and I think 'yes, that's a nice answer that should reassure me, but that doesn't reassure me', I'll come back to that. Because we do not have a clear starting point and do not know what the NCTV can do, what the NCTV is doing and what we can expect the NCTV to do, it is very easy to say: we are not looking for new powers. I know the minister's gonna start talking about the weekly letters again. We're all happy, hosanna! They've stopped. We have heard this example a lot now. They're not gonna happen again. But that does not mean that we should not be alert to policy habits that have crept in and become part of the new framework that must once and for all give us clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u215	Two things. I have indicated that I would like to see how I want to adapt the law on elements from my responsibility. Mr. Van Nispen hears: beautiful, it goes completely upside down; come up with a new law. I understand, because I know his criticism. I wasn't there. That's why I say to him, "I'll take that." But for the same reason, I do not come up with such substantial adjustments, but with a few adjustments which I think we have defined well; I hope that the majority of the Chamber agrees with me. I haven't been able to have that moment, because all those questions have been sent in. That's right, but they need to be answered. I've got to get it. Then I need to be able to look at it that way. That is why I am not going to say now: I withdraw it; that law is no good at all. I want the space to see if I can change the law in a certain way or if I have to do it another way, but I don't know. That's one. I think that would at least be my wish for the autumn debate; it is up to me whether we can make that very clear, so I hope that we can do that. You have to look very clearly at what this whole domain looks like, what role the NCTV should have to take to my advice and whether the Chamber shares it. Then you can look at the powers and the basis for them. But I note here today that we are looking at this very differently. I also hear several Members of Parliament giving different definitions in terms of words. Yes, then Mrs Simons is absolutely right; then there is no common starting point. I really think that this should be discussed at the moment that we have that law in front of us, in any form whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u216	Thank you. The Minister has a few more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u217	I think I'm going to the folder with other very important questions. I never want to call it "the folder of other questions." Mr Slootweg asked what I think of the idea of giving more attention to new detection methods, such as financial data analysis and artificial intelligence, during the training of employees. Apart from the foundations and the powers, I can say that it is always good if our people are also well trained throughout JenV, at the NCTV and everywhere in the security domain and can be well aware of the new developments. 'Cause if you don't, you're always 10 steps behind the criminals. The legislative proposal as it now stands imposes some limitations, precisely on these elements. The bill contains a limitation on the use of technical tools that collect personal data on the basis of profiling. That's not possible. Analyzing, combining; that is all excluded. All this has been included in the proposal. I say very specifically: this means that there is no use, for example, of software designed to profile. So algorithms and the like can't be used. That is also laid down in the law, and that is, for example, a very good thing that I would like to keep in that law. So it's important that people are always up-to-date, including in terms of their development and their education. The question is whether this always fits perfectly with what the NCTV should be able to do at that time. Mr Slootweg also had a question about privacy and ethics. Yes, there is ample attention to privacy and ethics within the curriculum of the NCTV Academy. This is, of course, something that must be constantly evolving and constantly evolving. The NCTV also has a privacy team, which is committed to raising the awareness of privacy laws and regulations among employees. I have already said that this has, of course, been a highly developed domain in recent years. It is very focused on the subsequent application of these laws and regulations in the daily work of the NCTV employees. So, yeah, that's a really important part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u218	I do puzzle a bit about how some statements and normative statements that have been taken relate to the fact that in the course of training attention is already paid to things such as privacy and yet also ethics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u219	That's a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u220	That would upset me very much. I'd think, "How did this happen?" As the Minister himself said, this is actually an excrement in the structure. I'd really like to see us keep each other focused on not doing this. How do we get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u221	I totally agree with that. I couldn't agree more. Eventually, it's also people who work there. They are people who can make trade-offs about which we could say afterwards, or at the time they are made, that this is not good. I can assure you that this debate and previous debates make a great contribution to this. Because of course this is not the intention. I also really hope that, when we are past the debate and the discussion about these foundations, on the left or right, there will be peace for the NCTV and they can just do their job well there. And I hope that from everything that has happened so far, the lessons have really been drawn. And I can say after four or five months of ministerial office that I can already see that they are very keen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u222	I would like to thank the Minister for this answer. And I am actually very pleased with the limitations that this new law would have in terms of, for example, the use of algorithms. But I still think this is important. We didn't have Twitter before 2006. Every time, new techniques come. In fact, we will always be a little behind in the legislation. How do we ensure that, in the spirit of how we all want it to be done here, we can still act, and you can actually use these new detection techniques as well as possible? Does the Minister have an idea for that? How could we do that? After all, the law is pretty solid and the world is dynamic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u223	It is almost a fundamental question, so towards the end, but of course this is the core. I'm looking at it within the security domain as follows. Our services, such as the intelligence services that we talked about this afternoon, but also the police and the justice system, can switch to them more quickly. To some extent, they have certain powers which allow them to be more flexible and to be able to switch faster. The NCTV just has a different role in that. They must be able to interpret phenomena, so they must be aware of them. That too requires a lot of development and expertise, but that is another. I think what Mr Slootweg is looking for is really good with the other services. Of course, it remains a conversation, a question of how we, I in my role, the Chamber, the NCTV and everyone else in there, are constantly keen on this. I cannot, of course, guarantee total error, ever, but Mr Slootweg does not ask me to do so either. But I see very passionate people, who are very involved, who have learned very good lessons from this and who are also doing very relevant work. I see people eager to pick up the other work they can't do right now. I think I've passed through most of the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u224	I suggest we suspend for a few minutes. Then we'll move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u225	The next item is the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van der Werf, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u226	Mr. Chairman. In the debate, the Minister was just a little indignant about the suggestion that NCTV should add a social media analysis to the intelligence of the services, but it is literally stated in her letter: "An increase in the threat can also be derived from public information on social media (such as Twitter). That is what the Minister says about the analysis task of the NCTV. D66 considers that unnecessary and undesirable. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security (NCTV) has an important coordinating function as a link between the different security partners;]] [[noting that NCTV has for years also investigated independent individuals and organisations, including political parties, without having legal competence;]] [[Whereas the monitoring of persons and organisations has been entrusted to the intelligence and security services and the police in the interests of national security;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure in the upcoming legislative proposal that the NCTV's analysis branch no longer conducts independent research or collects information on persons or organisations and leaves this to the services already provided for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Werf, Mr Azarkan and Mr Mutluer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u227	I would like to ask Mrs van der Werf about this. What she's saying is consistent with her input today. Are you saying that NCTV should not use open sources, what I heard the minister say in her contribution? Are you saying the NCTV should stop doing analysis and only use other people's sources? This is just to get what you mean by that phrase in that operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u228	That seems logical to me, because we already have two other parties that can do so. I do not understand very well where the Minister's suggestion comes from as if we need NCTV for this and other intelligence services would not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u229	Agreed. But then I understand Mrs van der Werf's suggestion as a suggestion to the legislative proposal, which will be amended, and that her group will continue to look favourably at the amended legislative proposal. In that sense, therefore, it waives the right to reject the bill in any event. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u230	We're gonna look at the bill in due course. That will also depend on what will be adopted on this evening's motions for resolutions. I'm not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u231	I really want to understand this. If NCTV is not allowed to do all this in a moment, does this mean that Mrs Van der Werf no longer wants to invest the analysis and coordination in NCTV and that things cannot be shared with municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u232	I would advise the colleague to listen back to my first term. I said that very precisely. For us, the coordinating task of NCTV is not a problem. The problem for us is it's on the analysis branch, which at times has really gone too far. We want the NCTV to stop doing independent research on people, individuals and organisations, also because that is simply unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u233	I understand that, and Mrs Van der Werf has indeed said this before. Only, the point is that part of the information is meant to be shared with municipalities, for example when it comes to radicalisation. Then I think there are two tastes: either it's not gonna happen again or it's gonna have to be done by the AIVD. But I believe that changes must be made before they can do so. That's what I'm looking for on the occasion of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u234	I think it's very clear. We have no problem with coordinating tasks. Our specific problem is not to find a form in which the NCTV can function as a linking pin between municipalities and other services. Our problem is that the NCTV is going to do research on its own and has also made many mistakes, and that it is simply not necessary. It's not a complement to what we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u235	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u236	Thank you, Madam President. I was walking a little slower, because I thought there was another letter coming in from the minister. But it may come just before the start of her second term. In anticipation of that, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NCTV has developed illegal and false qualifications about the PVV and its party leader in reporting;]] [[requires the government to send a recovery notice to all recipients of those reports, both at home and abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-228]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u238	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u239	Thank you. I have a few more questions. First of all, with which foreign services are the weekly messages exactly shared? I think that's very relevant to know. I specifically ask: is it also shared with the CIA in the United States, for example? I would like an answer to that in the second term. The weekly reports have already stopped, but is the Minister sure that no environmental analyses with exactly the same types of Internet monitoring have been published afterwards? I'm very curious about that too. The minister said the NCTV was set up to identify early threats. But is that true? That's not what NCTV was ever founded for, is it? The tasks were to coordinate and provide public information. I'd like a reaction to that, too. Mr. Chairman. I remain concerned about the demarcation of tasks and the prevention of overlap, including with the AIVD. We're not getting out of that right now. My question is, isn't there any more of this? Does it have anything to do with the past tribal struggle between ministries? The police went from Home Office to Justice and Security. The AIVD is still with the Home Office. Is that why Justice and Security seem to want their own intelligence service? I hope not. Mr President, I would like to conclude with the motion, otherwise I will run out of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas NCTV acted in breach of the law in obtaining information about people and, in response, decided to legitimise and provide a legal basis for this illegal act;]] [[Considering that this bill was strongly criticised in a round table with experts and that, among other things, it was said that this law is not appropriate in a democratic society, that the law is too general and too vaguely formulated, that it is not sufficiently motivated to do so, that there are too few safeguards and that robust supervision is lacking;]] [[noting that NCTV should not become an independent intelligence or investigation service or carry out such tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to repeal the pending and criticised bill and to ensure a fundamental rethinking and discussion of the tasks and working methods of the NCTV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NCTV has recommended an agency to municipalities which have been used by municipalities, among other things, by national means, to investigate mosques secretly;]] [[whereas the fact that this method of investigation is unlawful has been recognised by NCTV but there is no indication of the scale of unlawful methods used against mosques;]] [[considers that responsibility for this cannot be shifted to municipalities, as an unlawful methodology has been recommended by NCTV and funded by state resources;]] [[calls on the government to conduct an external investigation into the secret investigation of mosques by municipalities in order to clarify what has happened to all victims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u241	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NCTV has been collecting information on individuals, political parties and other organisations for years without a legal basis;]] [[rejects this course of action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u242	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NCTV has been guilty of unlawful surveillance of citizens, organisations and political parties in recent years;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the victims of NCTV with a hotline, legal assistance and access to their files as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u244	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for her commitment to engage in talks with mosques directors to be so genuinely committed to restoring confidence. I appreciate that very much. I hope the Minister will also inform us if that conversation has taken place. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is really concerned about how the NCTV has interpreted and applied its role in recent years. That gives little confidence for the future, let alone trust for all Dutch who are at the mercy of this service. I am therefore pleased that we have had a very critical discussion, a debate, with the Minister on what exactly is the added value of the NCTV: what does that mean, what does it mean to coordinate, what does analysis mean, what really should be invested in NCTV and what can just as well be invested elsewhere? For this reason, too, I have tabled a motion with Mr Van Nispen on the withdrawal of the legislative proposal that is now before us. I believe that this debate has shown that there is a reason for the Minister to reconsider what is really needed now and then to go through the route in one go. Otherwise, it would seem that we are buying time, but in the end we have lost much more time to achieve a good, possible legal basis for the tasks of coordination or analysis. I wanted to leave it at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u246	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Mutluer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am actually glad that we had this debate before we dealt with the legislative proposal in the autumn. When I went to work myself at the NCTV, I really saw the valuable work that was done there when it came to the coordinating task, to guard and secure it. But then too, I expressed my doubts about his analysis tasks. In my view, these doubts were simply not removed during this debate. I just don't see why the AIVD and STUDY wouldn't be able to consult that kind of open source. That is why we co-sign Van der Werf's motion. We really do think that you can place these tasks among these organisations. They do have good supervision and they do have good laws and regulations, and this threat can also be avoided. Here's what I'd like to say. It may be an appeal to the Minister. The Personal Data Authority and the CTIVD, the inspection, have explicitly stated that the need for this law is lacking. The powers are too vague and too broad and the independent review is impossible. I hope that the Minister will also take these critical comments from these two important organisations into account in her reflection period and in any amendment to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u248	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u249	Thank you, Mr President. The NCTV has a clear added value as far as my group is concerned. I mention the threat images, but also the support of local government in the measures on resilience. But the tasks of the NCTV must be clear and complementary to those of other organisations in the safety chain. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this now. That appears to be the case here today, and we simply cannot afford to do so. In the forthcoming bill, we must rectify it. As far as my group is concerned, speed is and remains necessary. Mr. Chairman. I have the next motion on the tasks of the NCTV. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas NCTV serves national security by coordinating the cooperation of the various parties involved in the fight against terrorism and by identifying and identifying threats and risks;]] [[Whereas NCTV should not extend its tasks to actively track individuals;]] [[whereas NCTV is not an intelligence service but should use information already collected from other services and open sources for its analysis;]] [[considers that the current proposal of the Data Processing Act could give rise to the impression that the tasks of NCTV continue;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify that the tasks of the NCTV are coordination and analysis and to better reflect this in the Processing of Personal Data Bill Coordination and Analysis Counter-Terrorism and National Security, thus adapting this bill and sending it to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u250	Mr President, allow me to explain why you keep saying my name in full. We are talking about Mrs Michon-Derkzen. There's another MP with the last name Simons, which is why I need my name in full. But, if you don't know that, it might seem a little weird. Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a very spicy debate with each other today. It was a debate in which, on the basis of different insights, the Chamber came to the conclusion that it could no longer do so with regard to the NCTV. I have also heard a number of good motions, which BET1 will wholeheartedly support. But just to be safe, I've got two more of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NCTV has been outside its legal powers several times and has thereby put the image and safety of individuals and organisations at risk;]] [[noting that despite these repeated violations, there is a legislative proposal to further extend the powers of NCTV;]] [[considers that the accumulation of abuses renders the granting of additional powers and greater responsibility to NCTV irresponsible;]] [[Whereas, by means of the Simons motion adopted (30821, 140), the Chamber has already stated that the NCTV should not have any additional powers;]] [[calls on the Government to honour the Simons motion adopted and not to extend the powers of the NCTV in any way, not even through existing frameworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sylvana Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u251	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV has followed people outside its legal powers and has collected, analysed and disseminated sensitive personal data;]] [[noting that the Minister indicated that this should not have happened and that people affected by these offences should always have access to the information collected and disseminated about them;]] [[Whereas there are signs that such requests for inspection are not always met;]] [[considers that everyone has the right to access and to object in order to obtain his or her right;]] [[calls on the Government to actively inform the persons concerned of the fact that they have been wrongly followed, to identify the obstacles they currently face in obtaining access and to ensure that their request can still be met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sylvana Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u253	Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u254	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to allow an overview of the fake accounts deployed at NCTV to track people to come to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u255	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas different functions within the NCTV may result in task confusion;]] [[noting that central crisis coordination remains crucial in a crisis situation;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine how the functions of the NCTV within the national crisis structure can be further separated from the analytical functions of the NCTV, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u256	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the AIVD and STIVD are the only intelligence services in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that NCTV does not develop into a third intelligence service,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u257	Fourth motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to apologize to anyone illegally followed by the NCTV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u258	Thank you. I also asked a question about the first motion on that list of fake accounts. If the Minister can make a commitment in the second term, I will simply withdraw that motion, because then it is not necessary. But I had not yet received an answer to that question. Hence the motion, just in case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u259	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Slootweg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. Despite the fact that I do not tend to cause panic at all, the words of November '21 do weigh heavily, namely that some of the analyses do not benefit the importance of national security. I am thinking in particular of the issue of resilience and prevention. Like Mrs Michon, I would like us to have good foundations for the work of the NCTV. I am not comfortable with what happens to supervision when we place a number of tasks at NCTV. I have the feeling that as a Chamber we will be able to exercise less supervision over the NCTV. I hope the Minister can reflect on that. I wonder what changes in surveillance at the moment when some of the tasks lie not with the NCTV, but with one of the intelligence services. Mr. Chairman. My last question is about a letter from SZW. It states that nineteen municipalities have made use of the reinforcement funds. Did that happen as a result of actual threat images? And to what extent did these municipalities report after 8 July 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u261	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u262	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u264	I see Mr Markuszower running straight to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u265	I have a point of order, because I have not yet received the promised letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u266	I didn't promise a letter, but I promised I'd come back to it. That's what I'm gonna do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u267	Then let's listen to the Minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u268	Coming right up, coming up. Can I just keep the order of the motions? I think this fits in well with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u269	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u270	I'll start with the motion in part No. 227 by Mrs Van der Werf, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Mutluer. It has a long operative part. I think we agree that NCTV should not conduct independent investigations into individuals or organisations. I hope I have been able to make it clear that this is simply not the case either. However, NCTV should be able to view open sources, such as news and science articles and social media. They need to be able to combine them with the input they get from elsewhere, such as statements made by individuals. Again, there will be no active follow-up. It is precisely information about what is happening around us, about obtaining information from open sources. If I may read the motion in this way, I shall share it in full and receive that judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u271	I'll take a look at Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u272	In fact, I would suggest that the Minister read it as it stands. Now a kind of sauce is added, but in my opinion there is exactly what the proposers mean by this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u273	I read that there should be no independent investigation into individuals or organisations. We agree on that. If you want to be able to coordinate and analyse, you cannot expect all other services to do all your work, so they should also be able to read pamphlets that appear online, but which could contain personal information and stuff like that. Those are just open sources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u274	I don't know if it's conscious, but the Minister doesn't read the part about gathering information, the second part of the sentence. It just says here: we are going to leave it to the appropriate services.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u275	The intelligence services do indeed collect targeted information on individuals. I've been explaining that all afternoon. I also share the view that NCTV should not follow people in any way or conduct independent research into individuals or organisations. Because I want to avoid misunderstandings, I add that the NTCV should be able to do its job. This also applies to crisis management, but there is another basis for this. But everything the NCTV does requires access to public resources. Because the discussion was about that all afternoon, I thought it wise to indicate more precisely how I read it, how we do it and how we anchor it as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u276	I'll check on Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u277	In all honesty, it has not become clear to me exactly which part of the motion the Minister might not wish to carry out. Maybe I'm mistakenly suspicious, but I don't quite understand what her nuance is in that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u278	Intelligence can track someone. An intelligence service will have to follow someone if there is reason to do so and will also collect information about it. The NCTV doesn't do that. But if the NCTV wants to know how they react in the Netherlands to an attack that took place in Germany, they should be able to look on Twitter, for example. That's got personal data on it. Then they won't look for exactly what Mrs. Van der Werf thinks, but they will look on Twitter. If Mrs. Michon has sent a tweet about that with a huge range, it stands out. That's what it is. I want to tear that apart. I also suspect that that is the intention of this motion, but I am also looking at the discussion and what we see here together, namely that we can sometimes look at the same thing differently. I do not think that the NCTV, the National Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, can do its job without having access to open sources. The fact is that there are also personal data in open sources. It is also the fact that last year the Chamber said: you must have a basis for that. And then I fully share the intention and the literal words of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u279	Thank you. I see Mrs. Van der Werf nodding. And now a hesitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u280	So it's not a nuance difference. I'm sorry to interrupt, Mr. Chairman; I didn't mean to. So it is not a nuance difference, but given the debate I have just had, I would like to name it very precisely. I want to prevent us from facing each other in six months' time and Mrs Van der Werf says: I meant something else. It doesn't say anything else. It's not a nuance difference for me either. The NCTV should not follow people or actively collect information about Pietje or Marietje. That's not on NCTV. But if those people do something in public resources that stands out because of a phenomenon study, they'll see it. The Chamber has said: you need a basis for that. I'll come back with that in the fall. That's the whole story. I think that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u281	I am inclined to stick to the literal interpretation of the motion. Because I think it is a little strange that the Minister is now opening the door again for NCTV, so that he can bring in independent public sources again, even though it was precisely the intention of the motion not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u282	So, if I understand correctly, the motion doesn't say that now, but that is the interpretation of the authors, which means that the NCTV cannot consult open sources, from science articles to manifests, pamphlets and social media. Is that what the motion says? That's okay, but then I'll know how to react to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u283	I hesitate because I don't know very well whether we're talking past each other or not. The intention and intention of my story was that we find that the other signatories of the motion also... that the piece of information collects, does active research, does not belong to the NCTV. They should therefore rely on information provided by the services, the police and other bodies. We do not therefore want to see an independent analysis on this subject, which in fact detracts from the originality of the source of the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u284	That's quite different from the way it's written here, but it can be. Does this mean that NCTV, if it does this research in order to be able to coordinate and analyse, or to carry out other tasks, may or may not consult public sources? I really do. If that is cancelled now, we really need to see what remains of what the NCTV can do about the Chamber. This really goes a long way. The AIVD is not going to do online phenomenon research. They're really doing other things, but they're doing research on a person, which the NCTV isn't doing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u285	I would like to give the opportunity to focus on this, otherwise we will not know what the interpretation and intention of the author is and how it will be voted. I shall therefore give the floor again to Mrs Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u286	We do not want this to happen in the area of individuals and organisations. Maybe I'll be clearer in my wording. I think the Minister and I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u287	But tweets, for example, come from people. A pamphlet is written by a person and may refer to other persons. So the NCTV can't take notice of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u288	It's not about getting acquainted, it's about interpreting it. We do not want NCTV to interfere with individuals and organisations in this way and to process them as information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u289	I have serious doubts about our differences of opinion, but given this afternoon's debate, I would very much like to respond to what is being asked here. Maybe I should have just read the motion, kept my mouth shut and given the motion judgment Chamber. Perhaps we would have had a discussion in a few months' time, because Mrs Van der Werf expected something different from me. I agree with her that NCTV should not do the work of intelligence services. I agree with her that NCTV should not actively seek out individuals and organisations. I think I agree with her for a long time. I also understand very well why she wants to record that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u290	May I suggest that we suspend a brief moment so that we can have a moment of speaking with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u291	Yeah, that's great. With me, too, or is it a matter of consultation of the proposers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u292	I think it's from the petitioners, but if you're needed, it'll come naturally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u293	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u294	There is a brief discussion and perhaps it is good... I think this is exactly what we saw this afternoon. I'm actually glad that this is happening because we're getting somewhere along the same lines in the core. Either we come to something or we think: we all just want this done properly. Or sometimes you come to places you say: okay, but we really look at this differently. This is where I'm not sure. So I'd like to give the proposers a suggestion... I think we're gonna get a long way together. The NCTV is not intended to become a kind of intelligence service and to seek out individuals, information and organisations. That just shouldn't happen. Nor should they be able to learn about open sources with two hands behind their backs and totally lame. So perhaps, with what I'm about to hear from Mrs Van der Werf, I could suggest that at least she should be involved in the legal process. Then I can at least put it on paper where I think those elements are. Then we can at least break them up and see which ones remain and what we do not agree on. I think that is a very large part of it. Nor do I want the NCTV to become an intelligence service and, by the way, the NCTV itself does not want that either. So I guess we're gonna get along a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u295	So your request is to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u296	I think so by now, yes. To involve her in the legal process, so that I can respond to this text in the direction of legal treatment. It's not like I'm gonna move her aside. But then I'm gonna involve her in the legal process and I'm gonna go into all those elements so we can break it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u297	We're gonna listen to Mrs. Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u298	In my view, filing this motion and involving it in the legal process do not necessarily bite each other. I think it is a good thing to hear a statement from the Chamber, because today I am in this Chamber and I am not the only one here. What we do not want is for this sector of analysis to interfere with individuals and organisations in this way. And that has, of course, always gone wrong in recent years. We are, of course, mainly concerned with social media, Twitter and the matters that you, Minister, mentioned in the letter as important enough to be able to do. And we don't want that. Mr President, I do have the impression that there is some light between how the Minister interprets this motion and how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u299	If that motion is tabled and taking note of this discussion in which I am still looking, I am going to dissuade her. I hear it this way: the NCTV should not take notice of open sources. That means not being able to do independent research and not being able to look that way. And then no more DTN can be made. Then I don't know if we can paint another cyber image. Well, then I guess you're gonna wipe out all those functions. For that reason, and because it could have such consequences, I'd advise against her. In this case, I find this really unwise for what we are doing in this country about security. So I'm dissuading the motion, but essentially... I'm sorry, though, because I think we were on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u300	We're going to vote next Tuesday on the motions. So there is still time to hold the motion, I say to Mrs Van der Werf. But if she's filed, the motion will be dissuaded. I think we've had enough discussion. Mrs. Michon-Derkzen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u301	Mr President, I think it is a good discussion. The essence of this afternoon also comes down to this. Of course, I have to advise my group and I read the motion in such a way that what the service does, the NCTV does not. You said it yourself, Minister. That self-defense investigation isn't intelligence. So what the services do, the NCTV doesn't. We all agree on that. Now we are talking about open sources all the time and whether or not they are allowed to enter the analysis branch of the NCTV, but nowhere in the motion is there anything about open sources. I find that very complicated for both of us, both the petitioner and the minister, because we are talking about something that is not in that motion at all. When I read that motion myself, I think: yes, what the intelligence services do, the NCTV does not. Yes, please! So I find it complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u302	It's getting complicated now, I'm just saying. I think it would be a good idea, given the differences in interpretation, to really think about it and see if it is involved in the law. The Minister has indicated that otherwise she will discourage the motion. I want to end the discussion now, because there are just multiple interpretations. And it would also be a waste of the careful debate that I think we have had with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u303	Mr President, I promise not to spoil it, but I would like to add one more sentence to what Mrs Michon is saying. The reason I said "if I can read it like that" is precisely because of the discussion we had. She says: what the intelligence services do, the NCTV does not. That's right. The intelligence services can target someone and come up with the same sources as the NCTV's on in an open source investigation. That's what I'm trying to make clear here. If you say to the NCTV: you can't touch anything, don't look at anything with personal data in it.That's the other extreme and I wanted to rule that out. Then it stops. Then there will be no more DTN and no more Cybersecurity image, because then they simply can't reach anymore. I do not think that is entirely the intention, but since I do see that risk in that motion, I must, for that reason, discourage that motion. Then I was at the Markuszower motion in part No. 228.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u304	Before you continue... Sorry, that's really the last question about the motion in part No. 227.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u305	Last try. I have the feeling that the Minister is now exaggerating, because she is actually insinuating: the NCTV could not make a DTM or a Cybersecurity image, if they are not allowed to watch the tweets and messages of persons on the social media. They'll be crippled. I really don't think that's true. The NCTV does a lot of things, where this particular piece is really not necessary, or is invested in other services...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u306	I fear that you will not be able to get out of it now, at least in this second term. I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u307	No, Mr. Chairman. I have to rely on those who work with this every day and who say: if we have to read it like this, you will get a consequence that I would absolutely not advise. I don't know if the motion wants to go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u308	We're going to the motion on part number one. 228.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u309	All right, on the previous motion, I will, for the last time, give 'hold' as consideration, because I think we will come to an end together. That'd be nice. The Markuszower motion in part No. 228. Mr Markuszower asked if there was any response to this. Yeah, there's gonna be one. We have stopped the weekly messages and are not going to start again. What we're going to do is that we're going to send everyone on that address list that's 500 addresses and a couple abroad, and we're going to send a message saying that in those week's messages personal considerations and indications came back and that that wasn't the intention. That's what it says in the letter I sent to the Chamber. I think that is exactly what Mr Markuszower wants. For those who want to know what those addresses have been: we will make them available to organizations, so one level higher, so that everyone who wants to see them can see them. Then you can also see the address file, at organizational level of course, and anyone who has ever had such a weekly message, at least the people on the most recent list, will receive such a message.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u310	And that will be made confidential for inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u311	The address list is then confidential for inspection, at organizational level, I say again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u312	Thank you for those two commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u313	May I have the motion to part No. Then you're just gonna take over 228?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u314	You can give her judgment room, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u315	I've always learned that if I'm gonna do it anyway, I'm gonna take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u316	If there is any objection, I should ask. That is not the case, so the motion will be... Oh, we're going too fast. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u317	That's probably me. I don't know if I'm gonna object. This depends on whether this is true for all concerned or only for the PVV. If that's the case, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u318	No, it's about the weekly messages... Sorry, I'm talking through it. I'm not supposed to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u319	If the answer is yes, so when it comes to all the weekly messages containing qualifications, not only in relation to the PVV, but also to other people or other parties, then it is generic and I have no objection to taking over. As long as it's not about one political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u320	No, but in that e-mail or in that message, I don't deal with a political party at all. That wasn't up to me then, and that's definitely not up to me right now, so I'm not gonna do that. I am going to say that there were wrongly personal indications of officials about organisations and individuals. And done. We're gonna handle that as pure as we can. One message, in which we point out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u321	So it's broader and general.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u322	Then I won't object to taking over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u323	That's nice, Mr. Van Nispen. I'll take a look at the rest of the room, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u324	Then I have one more question that relates to this. If the Minister undertakes to keep confidential the addresses that have been sent to him, I can imagine, because this concerns personal data. But I do not know whether the Minister will come back later to the question of which foreign services have had this information, or whether this question has been resolved. In fact, I think that we should know in public which countries are involved, other than the ones mentioned in the letter as a footnote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u325	Those are the countries. Those are the countries. We looked at the most recent files we had left. It's the countries I put in. I'll see if the entire address file deviates from what's in the letter. Then, of course, we'll correct that publicly. I'll do a double check on that just to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u326	Thank you. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 229. Excuse me, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u327	Thanks again for the commitment. It is very good that there will be a recovery for all those who have received the garbage disposal about the PVV and its party leader. I would like to go a little further on what Mr Van Nispen also referred to. "Confidential": we can't do anything with that. Why can't that list just go public? I understand perfectly well that we will then have to cover up the individual recipients, because I believe that the letter says 'investigator's staff'. Those names can be taken away. But we can still just the countries, but also the services... What services were they? Were those the counterparts of the NCTV abroad, as far as they exist? Or were they the counterparts of the AIVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u328	Why confidentially is your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u329	Yes. Why confidentially? Why be such a pain in the ass? The garbage disposal was very easy, but now that we want names and numbers, it's hard to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u330	In the letter I sent, it already said where it was going. Then Mr Markuszower said: no, names and numbers. Exactly because I didn't feel like standing here in a few weeks about why I shared names and numbers without foundation, I thought: we're doing it confidentially. But I will anyway... For I am always of that, and I hope that Mr Markuszower has seen this with me by now: anything that can be public must always be public. We'll do a double check on that too. But at least I want to do it nicely, so that would be the only reason. In the letter that went to the Chamber, it was already indicated what kind of organisations and which countries were involved. But I would like to inform Mr Markuszower that I also think that what can be done in public must always be public. Let's do another double check. The organisations can undoubtedly also become public, so let's see how we organize it best. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman? So what we can do in public, we do in public, and otherwise there is still a list in front of us where we couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u331	Thank you. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 229.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u332	Yes. I understand that it is being submitted, but I think we have discussed this in detail. It will not surprise Mr Van Nispen that I betrayed him. Then the motion to part No. 230. I believe that Mr Van Baarle does this with some regularity: he submits a handwritten motion that I can hardly read, hoping that I think "huh?" And then... but this one I'm going to dissuade, because I really think this is the responsibility of the municipalities. This has been discussed so extensively here in your Chamber and taken up in a certain way, that I do not want to go back to that again. The motion in part No. 230 has therefore been dissuaded. At the motion in part No. 231 I was wondering: is that a speech-exmotion or is that a question to me? That motion is about rejecting the NCTV's course of action. I read that as a speech-expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u333	Looks like a speech-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u334	Yes. The Chamber expresses its disapproval. It's not an assignment to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u335	You had another question about the motion on item No. 230.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u336	Yes, with your permission, I had another question about the motion that looks into the NTA investigation. In fact, I am not surprised that the Minister is not in a position to advise the motion. Nor will the Minister be surprised that I do not agree with that for two reasons. First of all, the reason why it is not appropriate to set aside the responsibility for this is because the Bureau has been advised by a service belonging to the Minister. Two is that state resources have also been used to fund this by municipalities. You don't want illegal things to happen to your national money. That's one. Two. Not all municipalities deal with this in an equally transparent way. I know cases where people say that the municipality isn't clear. The victims of these collusive research practices at mosques are still waiting for clarity. That's why I'm asking the Minister to take control. Read an investigation to clarify what happened and what illegalities there were, so that victims can be made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u337	I don't think we're gonna agree on part of the process. This has been dealt with in detail here. A lot of action has been taken. The responsibility lies with the municipalities. I understand what Mr Van Baarle is looking for, but I do not think this is the place for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u338	I apologise for going back to the previous point, but that is also because we did not hear this commitment until late in the debate. I hope you'll give me that space. I took a look. What's in that week's notice can be read in two ways, as can the motion just exchanged between D66 and the minister. It says: "This week's messages have been sent to countries such as Canada, Belgium and Germany." Should I read that as an exhaustive list or as an example of countries? That's question one. My second question is: why these countries? Why not the other countries? Why specifically those countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u339	I think I said to Mr Van Nispen: I know that the countries are, but we are doing a double check, as far as we can go back to that. I will make sure that everything we have been able to find is on the list that we may or may not have to keep publicly or confidentially. I understand this happened. They have not been structural exchanges of information between services. It went from individual to individual, because there were contacts. That was the reason. There is no more substantive story than that. As I believe in the letter somewhere, those weekly messages have never been translated. They are never meant to be shared with other countries. So I don't know if they could read that, but it was at a time when people were very interested in what is happening here, especially about jihadism and radicalisation, to be able to point that out. But that was done by individuals. So I have no substantive story as to why they are precisely those countries, because there was no structure or strategy behind them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u340	There was therefore no specific request from those countries or other countries. Then there was no specific request from a previous minister or the NCTV to send it to those countries. It was just a coincidence. There were contacts and they sometimes exchanged pictures and sometimes weekly reports. Is this how I'm supposed to read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u341	That's how I understood it. I've been asking around. I asked: were there structural questions from, for example, security services or other services related to NCTV? It never was. That's why I thought it was an important addition to the letter that they were never translated. There was never any point. They've been peer contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u342	Mr Van Nispen, SP, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u343	About the same quote. It even says, "This is how the last week's message was sent to partners from Belgium, Spain, Germany and Canada." But that goes for all those weekly messages. This applies not only to the latter, but also to all weekly messages in which there were not lawful indications. If it did go to other countries, for example the United States or any other country that is listed exhaustively, we will soon be hearing it from the Minister. Did I understand that as a proper promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u344	The reason why there is something about the latter... Of course I have also asked: can we not do all that? But just because they're peer contacts, you can't figure it all out. So it's not like it's a fixed file, that it's fixed appointments and a strategy, like: we inform each other, so here are our weekly messages. This is what we were able to pick up. I know the United States wasn't in there. From the last one, this is it. I've turned off something of everything we can figure out, but that won't be complete, for the reason I mention. At least, it may not be complete, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u345	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u346	So that means that not only is that last week's message being looked at. There is also a search for the one-after-last week's message, the week's message before and those of the past years in which these findings have been made. So an ultimate attempt is being made to find out to which countries all this has been spread.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u347	That ultimate effort is definitely being made. I think that's important myself. In light of what I understand about how that system and those contacts work, I just note that that history will not be complete. I find that annoying to say myself, but I should also be honest with you. Ultimate attempt: once. If there are other countries in it than in the letter, we'll just add it, but I have to mention this profit warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u348	Thank you. We're going to the motion in part no. 232.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u349	I don't recommend that motion. The motion in part No. 233 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 234 is actually a retable of Mrs Simons' motion that we were discussing. I do not agree with all the observations and certain wordings, but I would like to take over the motion on the basis of the intention I made this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u350	I would like to look at Mrs Simons to see if she agrees to her motion being taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u351	My first reaction is yes. But I am concerned, precisely because of what we exchanged this afternoon, about the undefined space that has now been occupied, and how it relates to new frameworks. So I see this as a very positive gesture, but I just need something to make sure that the non-framework freedoms that have now been raised to a standard are not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u352	The Minister, without going through the discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u353	Yes. I am taking over the motion in such a way that I have the tasks of origin of the NCTV for me is to anchor coordination and analysis. I share the intention, so I'll take her over in that sense. I do think there is a chance that during the legal process we may differ on what I am putting there; I cannot name exactly what I am about. But my intention is not to lay down all kinds of new powers, even if they suddenly arose last year. I can see that with the deployment of NCTV so many years ago and the development in it, a lot has indeed happened. Some things we don't do anymore. Some things I want to anchor. I'm sticking to the core tasks. I would therefore like to accept the motion with that intention, but I, like Mrs Simons, absolutely do not rule out the fact that we have differences of opinion when it comes to drafting it and perhaps we simply will not agree at all. But I do share the intention. I think I can go this far. I can't put it into practice now either. That's why we need the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u354	The motion calls for a motion which has already been adopted, so I would like to give the Minister the benefit of the doubt. We will undoubtedly have a strong debate on this if it turns out that there are serious differences of opinion here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u355	Fair enough. That's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u356	Let me look at my fellow Members to see if there is any objection to adopting this motion. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u357	Sylvana Simons motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u358	The motion in part No. 235, I don't recommend. Then the motion to part No. 236 by Mrs van der Plas. She said, if I get an answer, I'll withdraw the motion, but I'll put the motion down now. We've been able to trace that it was about one entity; it turns out it's a technically very complicated story, which I can't tell completely now either. Moreover, this has been the subject of extensive debate in the Chamber in the past. We haven't been able to trace any other entities, but I can't rule it out. What I can completely rule out is that it is still being done. We're not, and we're not gonna do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u359	Is Mrs. Van der Plas prepared to withdraw her motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u360	Well, I'm not sure it's one. I just don't believe that. I believe the Minister, but I just can't believe it's one. I would like to ask the Minister if she would give me the undertaking that she will see if it is not there after all. It seems very strange to me that it is only one. Anyway, that's my gut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u361	Will the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u362	Sure, absolutely. Perhaps we can agree that if it can be traced or found, we will come back to this fairly soon after the recess, or at least in the autumn I will involve it. I do think it is important to say that I can say with certainty that fake accounts and what this refers to are no longer the working methods. It's not gonna come back that way or any other way. Of course, that is what we are going to talk about in the legal process. I can give you that. I'll have another critical look at it. If there's anything more we can trace, we'll involve it in the pieces of the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u363	Mrs van der Plas, then the motion becomes item No. 236 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u364	Since the Van der Plas motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u365	The motion in part No. 237 by Mrs Van der Plas I must advise against. Then the motion to part No. 238 by Mrs van der Plas. I agree so much that I want to take over. Because I don't want NCTV to become a third intelligence agency. The NCTV and all those people who work there don't want that either. So I see this as a huge support for what we are trying to do here and what we are trying to put down in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u366	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas. I see she's giving permission to take over her motion. Let me look at the Members to see if there are any objections. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u367	The Van der Plas motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u368	Then all I have left is the motion in part No. 239. I think I've actually done it already. If I have to derive all kinds of other actions from this, I say: dissuade. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar met alles wat we hebben gezegd en met de weekberichten, zou ik deze …]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u369	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u370	It seems like a little nitpicking what I'm doing, but saying "it shouldn't have happened" or "we don't do it anymore" doesn't make me think of anything other than just making a really public apology for it. I think that's something else. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u371	I get that. I say two things about that. My predecessor has indicated in many places where things did not go well, has spoken with people and parties and has also apologized. We're also putting out the weekly messages now. In that we say: these kinds of personal signs should not have happened either. So I would also like to ask that we should be able to move forward with a clean slate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u372	"Sorry seems to be the hardest word," Elton John already sang. And maybe someone else sang that, too, but I know the lyrics to Elton John. I'd like to file the motion anyway. Then she'll be dissuaded. I think it is very important that there should be an apology.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u373	I don't find it difficult in that sense at all. I'm just saying, certain things have stopped and we don't do anymore. That's what we said here. We're not gonna let things come back either. We're gonna let all those recipients of those weekly messages know that, too. I think I'm going to be much more specific than, say, a random apology. Not that Mrs. Van der Plas meant it that way. And I think it's more to everyone that we're really not gonna do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u374	Mrs van der Plas said she was going to table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u375	It's for me and-and, and not or-or. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u376	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u377	Those were the motions, Mr. Chairman. I have three more questions to answer. I think it was Mrs Van der Werf who said that the previous Minister of Justice and Security to citizens whose personal data were wrongly used made a commitment that they would be proactively informed. I promised to look up that commitment again. My predecessor promised to proactively approach people and organisations whose personal data have been wrongly used if this is required by the General Data Protection Regulation last April. The GDPR does not contain such a notification obligation. That's why it didn't happen that way. What has happened is that the letter of 22 November dealt with how people can get access to data available from NCTV. Now I have an answer here and towards Mrs Van der Werf, and towards Mrs Simons: 270 people have done so by now. So those access requests have been made. By the way, they have also largely been dealt with. So I think that this is another concrete step that is going to come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u378	There is a short question from Mrs Van der Werf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u379	Last year it was said that it could be proactive, and now I hear that it can only be done by invitation and that a group of people has made use of it. But what is the Minister standing in the way of doing that proactively?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u380	I've got the whole treatment here last year. It wasn't said at the time that that would happen proactively. A number of conditions have been mentioned. On 15 June, Mrs Van der Werf and my predecessor, Mr Grapperhaus, exchanged that. He also referred to this possibility, and he said: we are going to do it this way. And so 270 people have already made use of it. So that really was the change of June 15th. I think it is important to see what was agreed at the time and whether we have complied properly with it. We do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u381	I wonder if the Minister can also indicate the size of the group of people who have not yet done so. That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u382	I can't because we don't keep personal files. That's also one of the reasons why you're not gonna make it all of a sudden, and then start approaching people proactively. Nor should the NCTV. We don't keep personal files. There may indeed be a name. Someone can then make an AVG request; that's what it's called. I know 270 people did, and I know people in the Chamber did. If such a request is made, the NCTV will do everything in its power to do everything in its power, from all the files that it has, to put together everything that the applicant has in a file, so that it can be said: this is all we have of you. For example, if Mrs Van der Werf made such a request, such a dossier would include parliamentary questions. That's how it works. We don't keep personal files. There's not a person at the NCTV who does it that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u383	Let me look at the colleagues to see if there really is a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u384	Yeah, because I had another promise from the minister that she'd look at that memo.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u385	Sorry, I forgot. There have been good conversations between Farmers Defence Force and the NCTV. They've worked together. That's what NCTV posted online. That was in accordance with the terms of the agreement. There wasn't any way it had to go to the room. It really happened between those parties and according to the agreement, the NCTV shared it. What I can do to Mrs van der Plas.... I do not know if it is very easy to find, because I have not been able to google for a moment.............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u386	Following a lawsuit that has been filed, I understand that the NCTV is obliged to send a memo to the Minister and that the Minister sends that memo to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u387	I think the deal was for this to happen online, but we'll check it again. I'll get back to Mrs. Van der Plas on that. We're just gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u388	I don't know if the minister had already arrived at Van Nispen's folder of unanswered questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u389	We're all done now, so I think we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u390	Then I'll have to repeat them. Those weekly reports have been shut down, but is the Minister sure that after that, I think it is true that no environmental analyses with exactly the same Internet monitoring have been published in March 2021? That was the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u391	No, but of course many more functions have been shut down, also because of the debates here in the Chamber and because of the internal analyses. The NCTV cannot now access internet monitoring that includes personal data, so they do not. That is why we shall have the debate on the basis of which we shall be discussing it later. So internet monitoring is not done wider either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u392	So the Minister says here: since March 2021 that has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u393	Yes. Then it's about monitoring online. Environmental analyses are done by every department. I get an e-mail from NCTV every day containing the most important newspaper reports that affect security. That's the kind of thing every department does. Before we get back into a new definition discussion, let me take this as my starting point. Those environmental analyses that everyone does, so do we. That's what JenV does on a broader scale, and so is NCTV. But about the real active monitoring as was done, it has been said by the Chamber: make sure that you have a basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u394	The second question I asked is the following. The minister said the NCTV was set up to identify early threats. I had asked if that was true, because I believe the tasks were coordination and the provision of public information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u395	Shall we do it in a way that involves me in the action I am about to take and towards the debate in the autumn? 'Cause I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u396	That's okay. Finally. I had asked whether there was a struggle between the ministries, as we saw in the past. It even became visible in debates at the time. I remember that well. Is that the reason why it looked like it? Let me say carefully that the Ministry of Justice and Security wanted some sort of own intelligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u397	I don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u398	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u399	I really don't experience it that way myself. Last but not least, we, as ministers, JenV and NCTV, do not want our own intelligence services. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u400	We have just taken a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u401	Now that I am sure we are at the end of the debate, I still have an interruption. I asked one question because there has been a lot of discussion about whether the analysis tasks of the NCTV could not be better done by the AIVD. I'd like to know what it would mean for the oversight of the moment the law comes to the Chamber. If that is the choice, then I really want to know what that means for monitoring it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u402	I heard him the other way around. Maybe I should check that out. I think the distinction between the intelligence services and an NCTV should be very clear. We must then come up with an opinion, a suggestion or a proposal on how to deal with supervision of NCTV. You know that the AIVD and the STIVD are covered by the Wiv and have their own supervision. I think it's very clumsy to mix that up, but I understand that there's a need for supervision. I'm gonna come up with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u403	That may have just been formulated from another point of view, but that is about the answer I wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u404	I'll be brief. Following on from the meeting the Minister has just made with Mr Van Nispen. May I assume that, with her new proposals, she sets the starting point as well: the NCTV's intention was this, they are and they are going to do that, this and we did not like it and that is why we want to do it now? Then we can also see what our starting point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u405	Totally. And yet we may also differ on this, because we believe that analysis was part of this. But we're just gonna write that down, so everyone can follow that, find some of it, and figure it out somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u406	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security for her comprehensive reply. I would also like to thank the spokesmen. I think it was an extensive, useful and good debate, for which I thank you. I would also like to thank the people who followed the debate and the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-18.u407	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. Thanks again. I wish you a very nice Whitsun weekend.
