ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen, Mr Paternotte and Mr Tellegen amending the Law on Abruption of Pregnancy and certain other laws relating to the legal medical termination of pregnancy by the general practitioner (34891). Today we are discussing the first term on the side of the Chamber. I would like to welcome the initiators. It is always a considerable achievement if an initiative law can be dealt with again. I understand that this is Mrs Ellemeet's third initiative law. The third is still to come, but three own-initiative laws in a few weeks is, of course, a lot. It's always very nice to be able to treat that. I would also like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for his presence. He's an advisor to the Chamber. I also welcome the policy supporter Daniel de Rijke, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Today we are discussing the first term on the side of the Chamber. We will plan the follow-up in good consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	I now give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about how we can further improve abortion care in the Netherlands. Last week we found that abortion care in our country is of extremely high quality. However, we can take further steps to increase the accessibility and accessibility of this care. That is why I would like to thank the initiators for the proposal that the abortion pill should also be made available to the general practitioner. In the Netherlands, about 30,000 abortion treatments take place every year. Now they're being performed in the clinic or in the hospital. These are places where very good medical-specialist care is available for women who want or consider a pregnancy break-up. The majority of pregnancy breaks occur at an early stage of pregnancy. For up to nine weeks it is possible to break off pregnancy by taking medicines. The purpose of this bill is to enable the general practitioner to prescribe these medicines. As far as D66 is concerned, this is a very good proposal, because we believe that it can improve aid, care and aftercare for all women. Over the last two weeks, we have had a debate on the content and respect for each other. I hope that we can continue to do so today and in response. Mr. Chairman. When I think of the GP, I think of accessible care close to home, of someone who knows me and knows what my history is, a doctor whose phone number I have in my mobile and who doesn't have to search through Google Maps where the practice is. Not only me but also others know how to like the general practitioner. It turns out that more than half of the women who are considering abortion also visit the general practitioner first. This group shows that more than half of them are eligible for over-time treatment via medicines. That is a considerable group, which could have been helped by the general practitioner if that were allowed. This brings benefits, because this means that women no longer have to go to the hospital or the abortion clinic. There are women for whom that abortion clinic is not around the corner. For example, women who have to travel from the islands to the mainland or someone from Zoutelande who has to travel for almost five hours to get help at all. There are also women for whom the abortion clinic is emotionally too far, for example women who live in an environment where there is a taboo on the termination of pregnancy or women who are afraid to be recognized when they go to an abortion clinic. For these women, the GP is literally and figuratively closer. Mr. Chairman. The abortion pill is a safe, effective treatment that can also be offered by the general practitioner. The WHO states in its guidelines that over-time treatment with medicines does not have to be carried out by a specialist. This is also confirmed by the Dutch Family Doctors Society, which writes that scientific research shows that the general practitioner can effectively and safely prescribe the abortion pill. The same NHG also writes that there are no substantive arguments why women should not be able to choose between treatment in a hospital, an abortion clinic or a general practitioner's practice. Last week we also talked about the care and quality of care when aborting a pregnancy. Family doctors play an extremely important role in this quality. Previously I was talking about women who first go to the doctor before they are referred to. These same general practitioners also provide aftercare. They discuss with women the possibilities for contraception. This contributes to the prevention of repeated abortions. In addition, these same general practitioners can also provide psychosocial care and support. In my view, further cooperation, especially between general practitioners and abortion clinics, will only benefit from good abortion care and thus benefit the care of women who are in an emergency due to unwanted pregnancy. I do have a number of questions for the authors. I read that general practitioners are getting training about prescribing the abortion pill. Can the applicants explain how the profession of abortion doctors is involved in this? Can the Minister also indicate what steps he is going to take to ensure knowledge and quality of the entire abortion care system in hospital, abortion clinic and general practitioner? I am also curious whether the proposers expect repeated abortions to decrease if the aftercare takes place in the same place as the care is offered. I also read in the two evaluations that the abortion pill can be purchased more easily on the Internet. With this, women miss out on information and help they would get from a doctor. Does this mean, for the proposers, that we are failing to make the current abortion care available? Are we meeting women looking for help by making the abortion pill available to the general practitioner? Mr. Chairman. For D66, it is important for women considering termination of pregnancy to remain available through the abortion clinic and hospital, but the current offer is not appropriate and adequate for all women. By creating an offer of three, including the GP, we make care accessible and available to different groups of women. However, I do have a number of questions about the financing of this proposal. I understand that offering a doctor's treatment is cheaper than at the abortion clinic. Can the proposers explain this further? Can the proposers also explain how medication through the GP contributes to making it more affordable and accessible for women who do not have Dutch status? The applicants indicate that the funding of the proposal comes from the same subsidy as paid for the abortion clinics. Can the Minister give a reflection on this? Is this the right way to finance? What does this mean for long-term abortion clinics? Or are there perhaps alternatives in funding that have the pre-approval? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. With this bill we extend the freedom of choice when it comes to the place where a pregnancy break is offered. This makes care accessible and accessible to all women in an emergency due to an unwanted pregnancy. Because the right of women to decide for themselves is only worth something if that right can actually be exercised by all women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	There is an interruption by Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have a question about the funding of the abortion clinics we already have. If it were the case that this law would result in more women getting to the general practitioner for an abortion, it could mean that the clinics would get less. That also makes sense, because we do not assume that the number of abortions will suddenly increase enormously. My question to D66 is: how do you think it is necessary to ensure that the number of existing clinics does not fall, or that the opening hours or accessibility of abortion care as it is today, do not decline by broadening the supply? I hope you understand my question. This is a very important point for the SP. We would find it very bad if the abortion clinic became less accessible by moving part of the care to the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	In that, Mr Hijink and I find each other completely, because for us, accessibility, accessibility and quality must remain unchanged, but the offer or the place where a woman can get help must be extended, precisely because of that accessibility. The question of funding is a very good question. I've just given it to the Minister. So I am very curious about his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	I think that the question is being asked, but I would also like to hear from D66, because the proposal is partly from the D66 case how it looks at it itself. Do you think, for example, that there should still be some form of availability funding for the clinics we have now? And do you think, for example, that there should be some kind of guarantee scheme, so that, if the number of treatments in the clinic decreases, we will be guaranteed that no clinics will close in the future as a result of this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	For us, it remains absolutely essential that this care remains accessible at every stage of female pregnancy. This applies both to the hospital and the abortion clinic as well as to the general practitioner. As far as I am concerned, this is not going to be any less, but that accessibility remains as it is today. How exactly we should finance this and how the Minister and the field itself are going to respond to it is something I am very curious about, because as far as we are concerned it should not be any less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr. Hijink, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	Then I hope that D66, like the SP, will agree that, before we decide on this, we will get good agreements and guarantees from the Minister, otherwise it will be complicated to vote for it if we are not sure that the abortion clinics have guarantees in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	I agree with Mr. Hijink. As far as we are concerned, it is not getting any less, but we are expanding the offer. I am therefore very curious about the reaction of the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	The SGP is pro-life and D66 looks at it differently, but I think that has become clear over the last few weeks. What D66 and the SGP do find each other in is that we attach great importance to the opinions of the Council of State. That is what my question is about. The Council of State is very critical of this bill and says that the proposal does not pay attention to ensuring careful decision-making on the medical termination of pregnancy by the general practitioner. What they are saying is that, in the current legislation, this changes the balance that is affected between the importance of protecting unborn life on the one hand and the right to self-determination and the right to help unwanted pregnant women on the other. How does D66 weigh this? How does she see the balance of that unborn life? I do not hear that in the contribution, and I would like to hear how D66 looks at this and whether she still sees that balance somewhere. Because I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think we will certainly not agree on a number of points, but perhaps we will agree on a number of other points. In the abortion law we have, a very careful law, there is sufficient balance for us. Mr Stoffer says that the SGP is very pro-life; we are very pro-choice. In any case, I believe that this law is a careful balance. In my view, the addition to the place where the break-off can take place does not alter the balance that we have to deal with very respectfully in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u14	I'm actually imagining that. A woman comes to a doctor in difficult circumstances for a consultation of ten minutes, or let it be twenty minutes, and then you've already made the weighing up. Does Mrs Paulusma look at that quite differently? Or does she agree with me that when one has had such a consultation for a while and then the abortion pill is prescribed, it is very quick, quick and in my opinion careless? Or does Mrs Paulusma see it quite differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mrs Paulusma sees that quite differently. The GP knows the woman who comes to him very well and knows her history as well. There's a relationship of trust. I'm sure it's not the first time that woman's joined the GP. So I think this is a very careful place for such a difficult decision. It is also not the case that women walk into the doctor's office and get an abortion pill. There's another ultrasound. So there's still time in there, too. So I want to keep my distance from: woman walks in, gets the abortion pill, and it's done. I think that the general practitioner is a very careful place for a very careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u17	Doesn't Mrs. Paulusma have a romantic image of the general practitioner? I live in a small village. The general practitioner who sits there knows me since I was little, but he also has a number of people who come "interimmen" and so on. If I have to be there every once in a while, I'll come to them. They don't know me and they don't know anything about me. I have that romantic picture of the general practitioner a little less than Mrs Paulusma apparently has. If a GP just doesn't know you, just shows up for "interim" or, for example, comes to work there for a year, you don't have all that, do you? Then there's no historical connection at all, is there? Then you start talking to each other in 10, 20 minutes, and then you think, "Well, this is it. Are we completely different in that now? That's the reality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u18	I don't have a romantic picture of the GP, because it's very hardworking women and men doing very important work for us. I especially have a very professional picture of general practitioners. Every general practitioner makes the careful assessment in his or her practice, even if you don't know someone so well: what is behind this question? What does this woman need? Is this the right time? And if the GP is in doubt, the GP can always refer. So I don't have a romantic picture of a GP, I especially have a very professional picture of a GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u19	During the previous debate, our parties were able to agree on the importance of medical care. I hear Mrs Paulusma speak about this again. That's what my party actually thinks is most important. We struggle a little with two things. I would like to hear how Mrs Paulusma thinks about this. On the one hand, it is about the expertise of the general practitioners. Mrs Paulusma briefly mentioned the role that abortion doctors can play in training, in prescribing the abortion pill. We are particularly concerned about the echo, about how it is going to be carried out. We wonder if many general practitioners have that possibility. Besides, a term clause isn't something you just do. Especially at an early date, that is very narrow. It's literally millimeter work. We were very much wondering whether general practitioners should do so themselves. Should the obstetrician do that? Then you have another step in the trajectory. That's what we're struggling with. I would like to hear Mrs Paulusma on that. And then there's another point. I can do it in two parts. Which makes it easier for you. Then we'll get right on it. I have also read the position of the NHG. We think it is very important that there is support from the profession. But the last point of view is specifically about the over-time treatment. Then we are talking about 45 days instead of 63 days. Let me read out what they themselves say about this so that I do not distort the words: 'Effectiveness and safety up to 45 days is greater and the risk of complications is less than 63 days'. We're struggling a little bit with that, too. I wonder how D66 sees that, knowing that they also consider medical care so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u20	I could fully follow the first question, even though Mrs Pouw-Verweij thought I might not, but the second one did not. So perhaps you could explain it in a moment. In my speech, I very much emphasized the cooperation that exists between general practitioners and obstetricians, the first, second and third lines. I think it is very good that the NHG and the LHV also give that cooperation to be improved where necessary. So these questions about where and when the echo: I think that the professional group should give a good answer in that cooperation, so that women do not get caught up. I think that is also the concern of Mrs Pouw-Verweij. If you come to the GP with such an intrusive question, you should also be well helped. I see very positive developments in these cooperations, but I am also looking forward to their further implementation. I would like to put this question on your behalf to the authors, because I think it is a justified one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you. Let me clarify your other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u22	Yes, the other question concerns the position of the NHG. You also mentioned that they say that an overtime treatment with the abortion pill can take place safely in the general practitioner's practice. They specifically talk about an overtime treatment, i.e. up to 45 days after the last menstrual period, 16 days of overtime. We're talking 63 days after the last menstruation today, so you're talking, out of my mind, six and a half weeks versus nine weeks. They say themselves: the effectiveness within that earlier period is higher and the risk of complications is less. They did not take into account that later period, which we are talking about today, in their opinion. That's what we're struggling with. I wonder how Mrs Paulusma sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u23	I think it is a very good question, because I think we should always take very seriously signals, which Mrs Pouw-Verweij also picks up from the profession and/or society. There are also other signals, which have also been included in this proposal. If the profession gives a different opinion, I can imagine that this will be taken into consideration. However, as far as I am concerned, we are now discussing the possibility of an overtime treatment with the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mrs Pouw-Verweij, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u25	Then Mrs Paulusma, through the chairman, I ask primarily about the intervention and not so much about the deadline? So it's about the overtime treatment, right? And about whether it's 45 days or 63 days, we can still talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u26	I want to stay a little far away from the day debate in this Chamber. For us today there is a place where this overtime treatment could also be offered. It's not possible right now. We believe that this will make care more accessible to women.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u27	I have one more question. Mrs Paulusma talks about making care more accessible, adding a choice. That is also the thrust of this initiative proposal. You also touched on the theme of giving abortion pills over the internet. You asked a question about that. But do you agree with me that making that concern more accessible... Can you give me a guarantee that this could not be a follow-up to D66? In terms of accessibility, it would also be very nice for women to be able to order it on the Internet. This will make it even more accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u28	For us, accessibility to care is also about quality. That is also our concern when it comes to ordering things on the Internet, with such a far-reaching decision. For us, therefore, accessibility is about quality of care. We also need to be able to check it out. We need to be able to evaluate it with each other. In this, ease, speed and accessibility are quite different from what we mean by accessibility, quality and that careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you for that answer. I believe that the question in this legislative proposal is also, and we will hear it from the initiators: what exactly is the underlying idea, is this care sufficiently secured in it and is it not a sliding scale in which the balance goes as far as possible to make it as simple as possible? Because we must continue to realise the intensity of this measure. We must put that care at the centre of our efforts. But I am somewhat reassured by Mrs Paulusma's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A week and a half ago, we had the debate in this place on the period of reflection on abortion. I thanked the initiators then, because these are the conversations we're supposed to be having in this house. This was also evident in the debate in the Chamber, in which parties had different views and views. Nevertheless, I found the debate going in a dignified manner, on the basis of arguments. Sometimes there is also some emotion, but it was in a respectful way with each other. I hope that today we will be able to speak in the same way about this law on the provision of abortion pills to the general practitioner. In addition to thanking the initiators, I would also like to thank former colleagues Dorrit de Jong and Julia Verheul. I think my colleague Corinne Ellemeet knows how much their value is and how much they have helped us. The same applies, of course, to Mr Daniel de Rijke. I saw him look! No, Daniel, I'm not skipping you either, I say through the chairman. Mr. Chairman. After the Law on Abruption pregnancy was passed in 1980, it has not been amended for 42 years. Now we have two legislative proposals to deal with within two weeks with the aim of improving this law. However, I think that this debate on the abortion pill at the doctor's office is quite different from the debate on the period of reflection. The debate on the period of reflection was special because it was also about how we look at women as a society. Do we believe that they can decide whether or not they want to have an abortion themselves, without imposing it on them for how long? Today it is also about optimizing care. It's about a law amendment that should ensure that women who consider abortion can get help from the healthcare provider who best suits her. Mr. Chairman. There has been discussion about the period of reflection since the first moment. The social debate on the abortion pill at the GP only started much later. In fact, in the initial review of the Law of Abruption pregnancy, it was even advised to be cautious with a law amendment that would make that possible. That is not surprising either, because the abortion pill has only been prescribed in the Netherlands since 1998. It is also a much newer method. In the meantime, we're almost 25 years away. It is good to reconsider whether the abortion pill in the general practitioner is a good addition to abortion legislation. My group, GroenLinks, has three issues at the heart of this. First of all, is it necessary, do women need this? Secondly, is this going to improve abortion care? Thirdly, is it feasible and willful and can general practitioners do this? Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a number of reactions from women who had an abortion, but who would have preferred to have done so with the general practitioner. I read a message from one of those women who indicated that, although abortion care in the Netherlands is of high quality anyway, she did not like the route. She had just deliberately sought a female doctor who was very good for her and where she also felt safe to talk about these things, because that is of course very necessary if you are considering an abortion. With the person in the clinic, the distance was greater. She would have liked it much better if the conversations could have been with her own GP. Another woman said she would have liked it if there had been more possibilities at the GP. In the end, she didn't want an abortion pill, but she wanted those conversations, and they went very well. A third woman wanted to go to the doctor for the abortion pill, because she can get all the care there and of course also the aftercare, which may be so badly needed for some women. Mr. Chairman. I think this is also the crux of the debate: give women the opportunity to choose whether they want a treatment with the general practitioner or in the clinic, so that they can get the care that best suits their specific situation. Of course, she's very different from one woman to another. Mr. Chairman. I think it's understandable to a lot of people that these conversations should take place at the GP, so just with the doctor with whom many people have a relationship of trust, who you know and who knows what your circumstances are. Although you are not anonymous to the general practitioner, a general practitioner's practice gives a different form of anonymity. No one who sees you sitting there in the waiting room, of course, knows why you're sitting there. It's different when you walk into an abortion clinic. That, of course, can also play a role. That is why I am very pleased with this initiative law. I see that this increases the freedom of choice for women considering abortion. This is all the more true for women who now live far from abortion clinics. There are no clinics in the provinces of Friesland and Drenthe. If you live on Texel, you have to travel for three hours to the nearest clinic. Let alone if you live in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. There seems to be only one hospital with the permit to carry out the abortion, as I read in the annual report of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. I would like to ask the Minister: is it true that this is only possible on Bonaire? What are the possibilities for women on other islands? How can the Minister encourage hospitals to apply for a permit? How can he give them the opportunity to do so and ensure that it is all of good quality? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a critical note of the issue of freedom of choice, because freedom of choice implies that abortion clinics and general practitioners must both continue to exist. That is what Mr Hijink's interruption was just about. But what exactly about the future resistance of clinics like general practitioners are also going to prescribe abortion pills? What about the funding? That is the question I am asking the authors, but of course I am also asking the Minister. Mr. Chairman. How does an abortion pill work? There are a number of questions about that. Of course, I did, when I read the bill and the explanatory statement correctly. You can use the abortion pill to break down the pregnancy if you're up to nine weeks pregnant. At the moment you can get the same treatment with your doctor up to six weeks and two days. Then it's just not called abortion, it's called overtime treatment. Mr. Chairman. Last week it was a lot about the balance in the law. The Council of State has also made a comment on this. We just heard that coming back in an interrupting debate. Actually, this is the same question again. Last week, the question was whether abortion doctors were able to support women properly. This week's question is one of the questions that we are asking, which, I believe, have more colleagues, of course: are general practitioners sufficiently capable of doing so? I want to express my confidence in general practitioners here, but we also have a number of questions. Precisely because doctors know their patients and have a better understanding of the situation than an unknown abortion doctor, I am confident that they are well able to find out whether the woman has made her choice, whether she has done so freely, without coercion, and whether she may need alternatives or more aftercare. At the same time, abortion doctors are specifically trained for this. That is why I wonder what the training of general practitioners looks like and whether the Dutch Society of Abortusartsen is involved, so that they can share their expertise with the general practitioners. What can a general practitioner do if he doubts whether the choice has been made under duress? Because, of course, that question needs to be asked. Can general practitioners judge that sufficiently? What can they do if they have doubts about that? That is a question I am asking not only to the initiators, but also to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Quality of care is, of course, linked to expertise. GPs will now not often get involved with women who are considering a pregnancy break-up and will prescribe an abortion pill much less often, but still they can provide high quality care, according to the initiators. I would like to ask the initiators to comment explicitly on this. It is very rare, so how do we ensure that good quality is delivered and that that quality is maintained? How does the Minister see that? Mr President, I would like to make my final point in this block. In the second evaluation of the Wet aborting pregnancy I read that there were objections because general practitioners do not always have the right equipment or do not have the means to help women if complications or side effects occur. How do the initiators and the minister see that? How do we ensure that all equipment and all necessary knowledge and expertise are available to all general practitioners affected by this? Mr President, then there is the feasibility. I was just taking an advance on that. The general practitioner must implement this law, but he must be able to. I can imagine that, with all the administrative requirements associated with the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, it can be quite a lot of work for a general practitioner, even though this happens only a few times a year. Because there are quite some data to be provided and collected and the GP should also invest time in talking to the person. When I look at Article 11 of the proposal, it seems to be quite a lot of administration. For example, it is necessary to establish the findings that led to the treatment of these data, which should also be kept for five years, i.e. the duration of pregnancy, consultation with other professionals and the date of the procedure. It probably only happens twice a year and that's not much, but general practitioners are already overloaded. We have asked for this in the Chamber before. Both we and they themselves indicate that they want to have more time for their patients, because this obviously requires very good conversations, guidance and aftercare if necessary. I would like to ask the Minister and the initiators how they see it and how they can ensure that general practitioners also have sufficient time, also because of course they need time for a lot of other treatments and they are already quite under pressure. Moreover, if you really want to extend the freedom of choice, there must of course also be general practitioners who want to do so, who also feel sufficiently equipped, who have the equipment, the time, the knowledge and the materials and who also have time for further training and further training. That is why I would like to ask the initiators and the Minister if they have an indication of the time it may take to be well equipped for this, and of course also of the administration that will lie with the general practitioners. My question is of course also: do general practitioners themselves indicate that they have enough time for this? It was just about the reactions, but I would also like to hear what the Minister and the initiators think about this. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I see some advantages of the underlying bill. I see mainly advantages, but we have also asked some critical questions and I am very curious about the answers of the Minister and the initiators. I understand the usefulness of this proposal. I think, after reading the documents, that this will also take a step towards improving the provision of care around abortion. It is also a next step in the emancipation of women and it can help women to get good help and guidance. But I do have another question about that. This law makes an exception to Article 296 of the Code of Criminal Law. It still states that abortion is punishable. As a result, abortion has a separate status in medical care. But choosing abortion is not a crime, and women who want abortion and doctors who help these women are, of course, not criminals. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how he looks at this issue and whether he is prepared to take next steps to finally get abortion out of the Criminal Code. Mr. Chairman. I finish with a heart cry about preventing unwanted pregnancies. To really finish the fight for women's empathy, to really do justice to that strong slogan "boss in his own belly," contraception should of course be available to all women. Tomorrow, this Chamber will also vote on a number of motions tabled by Mrs Ploumen and myself. I hope that all those who rightly point out the importance of good prevention will also vote in favour of our proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u33	Of course, I fully agree with that last point. It's time this happened. My question is about access to the general practitioner. I understand very well what you're saying. I also understand that it would be much more pleasant for a lot of women to be able to go straight to the GP. I simply wonder whether the proposers, as well as Mrs Westerveld, do not paint an ideal picture of what it will look like in the future. I also see in my own environment that the general practitioner is not a well-known person for young women who are otherwise healthy. When you're healthy, you don't get there that often. If the GP is part of a practice, it happens very often that you still see another doctor. There are quite high demands on general practitioners. They have to make appointments with obstetricians. They might need to get some equipment. They have to train, they have to school, and they have to continue to do so. So there are still a lot of thresholds, so the number of general practitioners actually doing this could be very limited. So my question is: should we not be careful that this proposal represents the ideal image for women that they will be able to get there, whereas the chance that it can actually be done is perhaps much less?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u34	I think this is a very fair question from Mr Hijink. That is why, of course, in my term, I already asked many questions to the initiators, not only about the availability of equipment, but also about the knowledge and time it takes to be sufficiently equipped for this. In my opinion, it is most important that the general practitioner himself, of course, is concerned about this. I read an article this morning from a number of general practitioners who were very critical. Mr Hijink may have read that too. If a general practitioner indicates that he or she does not have enough time for this, that he or she is not adequately equipped for it and does not have the knowledge or equipment, then of course such a general practitioner does not have to carry out this treatment. Then a doctor can refer it to you. In my view, that is the most important thing: that we should put this down to the general practitioners, so that they can choose for themselves and, if they are not equipped enough, refer women to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u35	I understand. Only the dilemma is this. The SP is always critical when it comes to concentration of care. We do not necessarily think that care should be done in as few places as possible, so that you can run volumes. That sounds a bit flat in this context. I refer to the debate we had last week on abortion, which was about the care and time you can take as a doctor to have the right conversation. Mrs Westerveld rightly says that the general practitioners are already overburdened. The question is, of course, whether enough general practitioners will say: yes, I dare to do so. There's still a matter of concern with the SP. Because the last thing we would like to do is to adopt something here that will prove in practice that it does not really help women very much. I do not think that should be the outcome of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u36	I fully understand this consideration. I also think that these questions are justified, but there are two ways in which this debate can take place. That is, on the one hand, through the question: what does it do with general practitioners and with the workload they have; can they handle this? But, of course, there's an important component in this law. That's women's freedom of choice. That is the observation that it can be very important for a lot of women to have these conversations with someone they know or who they trust enough to go to his or her practice. Of course, that's the other side of the law. I believe that the initiators have correctly described this balance, including in the explanatory statement. Of course, questions remain about the exact balance. Of course, the question remains whether all general practitioners can handle this. Of course, it requires us to recognise that general practitioners already have to do so much and sometimes have a lot of work to do, and that we also ensure that in the future general practitioners are sufficiently equipped to do everything they can to give their patients the best care, because of course they all want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u38	Yes, but then the freedom of choice is made very large for me in the explanatory statement as well as That is also right, because that should be the profit of this law. But that freedom of choice is not given. Even if it could only be an improvement for a small number of women, you could say that might be the profit of this bill. The opposite is, of course, that if the practice shows that only a limited number of general practitioners, for example in a medium-sized city only one or two general practitioners, could actually do that treatment, you can say: that is a profit, because then you no longer have to go to the clinic. On the other hand, or to a large extent, the arguments that the initiators call, when it comes to the familiar face or the familiar environment, because you still come to a foreign doctor and you still have to go to hospital or an obstetrician practice for an ultrasound. So then some of the arguments of the familiar environment lapse, despite the fact that perhaps the accessibility, for example, in terms of distance, is improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u39	Yeah, but then we're gonna look into the future and I don't know exactly what it's gonna look like, no matter how many general practitioners want it. That will have to tell the future. I would like to add one more point. Of course, women's freedom of choice also depends on the quality of care. If a woman is going to decide whether or not she wants to have an abortion and get an abortion pill, that is not an easy decision for a lot of women. That's not funny. If you can do that with a helper who you trust, who is near you, then of course that also leads to better care. I think that is also a very important element in this legislative proposal. That is, of course, one of the reasons that the initiators write down in their explanatory statement. For this reason, too, I am initially in favour of this bill, because freedom of choice leads to better quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Stoffer of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u41	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing an initiative law to amend the abortion law. The initiators want to make it possible for the abortion pill to be provided via the general practitioner in a way that is easily accessible in the event of an unwanted pregnancy up to nine weeks, according to the explanatory statement. Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that preparation for this debate was difficult, even more so than the bill on the abolition of the period of reflection. Because in that period of reflection we are talking about how an abortion decision is taken, but before today's debate you will not get away from looking into the way an abortion actually takes place through a pill. If you're honest, you don't get away from letting yourself get through to what happens next. Because that unborn life is still so incredibly small, and at the same time it is so incredibly large. At six weeks of pregnancy the heart starts to beat, a week later the head gets shape and another week later the brain starts to work and the body gets further shape: mouth, legs, toes. An abortion pill will put an end to this miracle. That reality weighs very heavily on me in this debate. Mr. Chairman. Why is it necessary to lower the threshold for abortion by making the abortion pill available to the general practitioner? What kind of problem does this bill solve? In previous written rounds, the Council of State and the political groups of the VVD and the CDA also questioned this. The initiators give high priority to abortion practice in the Netherlands. However, they see a bottleneck in the fact that more than half of the women who opt for an abortion first go to the general practitioner and are then referred to the clinic or hospital. According to them, this indicates that there are women who would like to be helped directly by the general practitioner to break off their pregnancy. I wonder if you can just draw this conclusion. The fact that women go to the doctor first is not in itself proof that they would also like the doctor to be able to provide them with an abortion pill? My question is also: how large is the group of women who are expected to make use of this? The initiators further argue that travel time or other practical obstacles should not lead a woman to refrain from seeking help or delay it. But can the initiators actually justify how often this occurs? The initiators stress time and time again that for unintended pregnant women, the family doctor is the trusted health care provider. I can imagine. Abortion is not just a medical question, but also social, psychological and emotional. The personal bond that is possible also plays a role in today's practice. This is particularly important for the first interview, prior to the reflection period. The initiative law is not innovative in this respect, Mr President. What's new is that the GP becomes the person who actually carries out the abortion by providing pills. I have three objections to this. The first objection is that your abortion is shifting from specialist healthcare professionals in clinics and hospitals to the first line. By doing so, you normalize, no matter how you turn it or turn it, abortion as a regular treatment that any general practitioner should be able to perform. Do the initiators agree that the abortion pill is incomparable with any other prescription or medication prescribed by the general practitioner? My second objection is that the legislative proposal does lower the threshold for abortion, but does not provide additional safeguards for the care of decision-making. We know that general practitioners often already make a reference to clinic or hospital, without talking to the woman about alternatives. Add to that that many general practitioners only have to deal with an abortion request a few times a year. Add to this the many other tasks of general practitioners, which colleagues have just appointed. The workload is just very high there. In the short consultation of let's say 10, 20, 30 minutes come doctor and woman then decide to provide the pills. My questions are as follows. Can general practitioners comply with the due diligence requirements laid down by the law on decision-making? Isn't there going to be a lot of pressure on such conversations? Do the proposers agree that you should at least tighten up the obligations for doctors to point out alternatives? The third objection is expressed by the Council of State. It considered that this initiative law would undermine the balance sought by the legislator between the protection of unborn life on the one hand and the assistance to the unwanted pregnant woman on the other. According to the Council of State, this bill is one-sidedly based on women's freedom of choice. I ask the initiators: how does your proposal contribute to protecting unborn human life? You can at least say that there is a discussion about the value of unborn life. But, Mr President, for the SGP, the value of unborn life is determined by the fact that every human life is uniquely given by God. I ask the proposers: what if they misaste and that unborn life has more value than they think? Shouldn't you at least exercise a certain degree of restraint from the point of view of care? Mr. Chairman. Although it is not required by law, in many cases a certain period of reflection is also used for overtime treatment. The Council of State stresses the importance of this, including for early pregnancies. My question to the initiators is: shouldn't you lay down this practice in the law? Only a part of the general practitioners will make use of the possibility to provide the abortion pill. Mr Hijink has just interrupted Mrs Westerveld. My question is: how many doctors are expected to do this? Article 20 of the abortion law says that no one is obliged to give or cooperate with a woman a treatment aimed at aborting pregnancy. My question to the initiators is: can they confirm that no general practitioner, general practitioner or practical supporter need to cooperate in providing the abortion pill? I miss a reflection in the explanatory statement on the role of pharmacists. Can the initiators confirm that pharmacists and their employees are not obliged to provide the abortion pill? An earlier legislative proposal to make the abortion pill available to the general practitioner included a general practitioner's permit system. The initiators did not choose to do so, but after criticism by the Council of State, they did include an accreditation obligation in the law. My questions are as follows. What exactly is the difference between the authorisation that hospitals and clinics are required to obtain and the accreditation that will apply to general practitioners? What exactly does such accreditation mean? And why is it logical for clinics to be allowed to provide exactly the same abortion pill only if they are licensed, whereas for general practitioners only accreditation is sufficient? The provision of an abortion pill is currently prohibited in the Netherlands under Article 296, first paragraph of the Code of Criminal Law. Only a doctor in a hospital or a licensed abortion clinic can now provide that abortion pill. Abortion pills can be ordered online and can simply be delivered in the Netherlands. That seems to me to be in direct violation of legislation. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he is aware of this. Is the prohibition of the provision of abortion pills online or, for example, by post actively maintained by the Public Prosecutor's Office? I would also like to ask the Minister specifically about the activities of Women on Waves. On their website they indicate that they are willing to provide a permit for general practitioners who already want to provide abortion pills. This also seems to me to be a criminal offence, because women on Waves can only have abortions outside the Netherlands. My question is therefore: is the Cabinet prepared to at least investigate this and, if possible, prosecute it? Mr. Chairman. Finally. It struck me in the explanatory statement to the bill that is consistently talked about the abortion pill as a medicine. How wretched! A drug that puts an end to unborn life, why do we call it a cure? Abortion doesn't heal. Every day span in the Netherlands, countless aid workers and volunteers work to provide alternatives to abortion. Let me say this specifically here: I have a great deal of appreciation for that. As a chamber and cabinet, let us stand next to and behind them and work together on real solutions for mother and child. At least I want to work for that with heart and soul and with all that is in me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u42	Interrupts by Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u43	No one will be surprised that the SGP and GroenLinks disagree about abortion. I would like to ask Mr Stoffer whether he does not agree with me that, if we are talking about making a good choice and getting a good treatment, this bill can contribute to that. Just because a GP knows a woman and knows the circumstances, and because it's closer to home. Some women sometimes have to travel hours before they can go anywhere. So can Mr Stoffer also see the good in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u44	You're asking me why a bill is good when I'm against it all. It's not easy. If I put that aside and look at what this means, I can see two sides. On the one hand, I have said that in my contribution too. We can see that now. In many cases, people know each other. I have had an interrupting debate with Mrs Paulusma about the fact that there are some other experiences, but I admit that in many cases a general practitioner knows patients much better than an anonymous abortion doctor. It's already the case that it's closer. I can imagine that feeling more familiar and so on. But on the other hand, if you don't look at how you feel about abortion, then at the moment abortion care in the Netherlands is at a very good level. Of course, we do because there are specialized clinics. What happens if you take a very large part of that away? I've always learned that the more treatments you do and the more experience you have, the higher you get. We're gonna shred that in a minute. There's only one part left at the clinics, so that's where the experience gets a little less. In general practitioners, it's only limited. When I look at the whole thing, it may well be that the knowledge in that respect is falling. So on the one hand, I can best see that it's getting closer, but on the other hand, it could be a medical deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u45	Of course, I didn't ask that question for nothing. Of course, you can be against abortion, but you can also look at legislative proposals with other glasses to see if it is perhaps a step in the right direction. We have abortion legislation in the Netherlands. That's why I asked that question. I would also like to ask Mr Stoffer, who has just given a comprehensive answer, whether he agrees with me that freedom of choice can also be an important element. In this case, can women's freedom of choice, and does this bill actually contribute to better treatment, because it is accessible, close and happens to someone who chooses the woman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u46	Then, of course, I shall return to the same point. In the current legislation, of course, there is a certain balance between freedom of choice for women and the value of unborn life. Where there are parties that may be very strongly attached to the freedom of choice for women, I am very strongly attached to this value for unborn life, let me say one hundred percent. If I could just put that next to me, it might actually feel a little more familiar with such a general practitioner. It could be. I don't know. I don't get that from research or anything like that either. There's a lot to go on. This is without prejudice to the fact that I would like to see no abortion. In the previous debate I also said that for me every life is one and every life is of value, especially because I confess that that life is given by God. So I don't want to go there at all, but if I look at it from Mrs Westerveld's perspective, it could. But I don't know, because I don't see any research underneath it. Then I always think: first the facts and then the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u47	I just heard Mr. Stoffer make a few comments. I think we share the concerns about buying these pills on the Internet. I heard Mr. Stoffer say things about persecution. I wonder how Mr. Stoffer looks at the following. Apparently, there's a need. It's being filled in online now. It would therefore greatly benefit the quality of care and the careful conversation we are both looking for if these pills could be provided to the general practitioner without women having to seek their salvation on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u48	I think abortion in an abortion clinic is legal now. So no one would have to order this illegally. I do not know what the causes and the reasons for them are either. I think we agree that we shouldn't want that. We don't agree on the sequel, because I wouldn't want the rest either. I think I made that very clear. I wouldn't like to see any abortions. I also hope that Mrs Paulusma will agree. Of course, she also looks closely at women's right to self-determination. I can see that too, but I would like it to be made available in order for that child to come into the world. We don't agree on that. Abortion pills online or by post should absolutely not be wanted. We're gonna have to get rid of that anyway. That's also a criminal offence. I hope that the Minister will indicate that this will be maintained and, if not, that this will be done firmly from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u49	I have a brief follow-up question. I do not think we agree on the question of whether or not to prosecute. For us accessible care of high quality is important, especially given by the GP. We see, for example, in Sweden, where the abortion pill is available from the general practitioner, that abortions are decreasing. Do you see an opportunity there for what we share, the reduction of unwanted pregnancies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u50	If that were the case, and if that were the case here, it could be the only advantage of this law as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a word of thanks and congratulations to the authors. We all know that it is intensive to make and submit a bill. This certainly applies also to the employees who have worked very hard and have to work on it behind the scenes. Mr. Chairman. It is quite extraordinary that we are indeed talking about two important medical-ethical topics in a rather short time. That is why I posted a message yesterday that I often have to think about Mrs Borst in these times. She was, of course, one of the greatest champions on this subject. She didn't do that alone. We had memorized a large number of names last week. She too belongs in that list. Mr. Chairman. It shall decide, at all times. In an ideal world you would like to avoid abortions, but there is no ideal world. Force occurs. Drang occurs. People make mistakes. Accidents happen. Sometimes there is also ignorance or there is no availability, because contraception is still not accessible free of charge in this ideal world. So I hope that people who are very pro-life will vote tomorrow for the motions on free and accessible contraception. That would be a very important step. But that ideal world isn't there yet. Because we believe that "she decides," this is a good step to make abortion care available close and accessible within a time limit that is still medically feasible rather than having to undergo a larger procedure. And how much nicer is that if you can do that in consultation with a doctor you know and trust? I hear words like that practice-based doctors know less and less, because you are dealing with different people, but I know my GP long, personal and well. If I had to have an abortion, I'd be on my way for 50 minutes. I don't find that easy and accessible. That's a big threshold, especially when you're young, when you're insecure, when you're in a situation where you shouldn't have gotten pregnant. How good is it if you can go to your GP? Mr. Chairman. The question has rightly been asked whether every general practitioner would and could do so. Mrs Westerveld has asked a number of very sensible questions about this, which I would like to join. I also have a number of other questions, for example a technical one. After all, there is the legislative proposal on the fixed period of reflection, which is likely to make it. What does that mean for this bill? Technically, a number of things will have to be changed. Is there another choice of principle? And what does it mean to fund abortion clinics? Are they going to lose revenue with that? And, if so, how do we compensate? Accessibility is a great asset. That's what we want to guarantee. Are the finances also perhaps used as a false argument? It cannot be that women's finances are the threshold for self-determination. I would find that a very negative and unjustified reason. How are we gonna do that? How is the consultation between GP and abortion clinic arranged anyway? And what if a doctor says "no"? Does a woman automatically go to an abortion clinic? Does the GP refer to another GP? Can the petitioners take me into this trial? I think that these are very legitimate questions that people who follow this bill may be concerned about. Another important issue is aftercare. Questions were asked in 45 days versus 62 days. What does that mean for aftercare? Does it take place in the same way? Can the proposers take us on board in this important point? Mr. Chairman. It will not be a surprise, given that we are co-authors of the bill, which I am in favour of. At the same time, this type of far-reaching legislative process must be careful and precise. I am confident that the proposers will do so, but based on the principle of "she decides" and "she deserves the best care": accessible, close, and in consultation with a doctor she trusts. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I can again speak on behalf of the VVD about an aspect of women's difficult decision to terminate their pregnancy. Last week I did so because my colleague and spokesperson, Ockje Tellegen, was in trade-K to defend the initiative law. Today, I'm doing it again. Unfortunately, Ockje's not in "K" right now because she's sick. I wish her well from this place. I do find it special to be standing here again. Aborting a pregnancy is a right that our predecessors have fought for for a long time. Last week I already mentioned Els Veder-Smit and today Mrs Kicken, quite rightly, called Els Borst. For women, it is a great thing that they can, of course in a careful way, decide their own future. If we look at the countries around us, we should not only be proud of that achievement, but we also see that it is necessary to stand and fight for it. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, therefore, to colleagues Ellemeet and Ploumen, but also to Paternotte and Tellegen, for their perseverance and patience. After all, it was already in 2016 that Edith Schippers did not fight Els, but also one of our predecessors fought for the same case and made an initial proposal to allow the delivery of the abortion pill by the GP. "Because," said Schippers in 2016, "if there are new possibilities that have the same care, that are safe and of high quality, then I don't see why that would be overlooked, especially since the often long-term relationship you have with your GP can bring enormous added value in this sensitive situation." Mr. Chairman. When we spoke last week about removing the mandatory period of reflection, I also said that we all want to avoid unwanted pregnancies as much as possible. But if a woman has gotten unwanted pregnant and she makes the difficult decision to break off that pregnancy, then the VVD wants her to have the space to do so in a way that fits her situation. Mr. Chairman. My group is also concerned with the balance between the two important elements which have been reviewed a number of times today: the protection of unborn life and the freedom of choice and the helping of women in need. For the sake of clarity, as far as the VVD is concerned, we do not change the law to lower the threshold to opt for abortion. I just mentioned the argument Edith Schippers put forward in 2016. We are looking at this bill as an attempt to further improve the quality of abortion care, to improve on the one hand that freedom of choice and assistance for women in need, while at the same time keeping an eye on and keeping an eye on the protection of unborn life. That's where the word "carefully" fits in. So you will hear that word come back in my speech a number of times today, because breaking new life is not something the VVD thinks lightly about. In fact, no party in this Chamber does that, let alone women who stand for that choice. Whether they make that choice and are helped in an abortion clinic or later possible in a general practitioner's practice: no matter where a woman chooses, she must be carefully supervised in making her decision and in possibly ending her pregnancy. I have every confidence that a general practitioner can and will do so in the best possible way. This is not restricted to the location, but to the professionalism of the doctor. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants to be careful even after today, because we are obviously not here to deal with this law. When the law comes, in four years' time we will see whether the law actually achieves the goals and in practice also works as well as we have in mind. As far as we're concerned, we don't wait that long. In the meantime, we would like to see the Health and Youth Inspectorate keep a finger on the pulse of whether the legislative amendment is working properly and whether women have actually been helped with this new possibility. I'd like a response from the proposers. But before that, I'm going to ask you a few more questions about this bill. We have been talking here in the Chamber for a number of years about the possibility for women to be able to go to their own doctor for the termination of their pregnancy in the early stages, up to those nine weeks. More than half of these abortions are carried out in those first nine weeks. For many women, they would like to have that done with their GP, because they prefer to join a trusted person, because they live in a region where there is no abortion clinic nearby, or because they find the threshold to go to such a clinic very high. At present, women have no other choice and the VVD is in principle in favour of offering this choice. For the sake of completeness, as with the law we discussed two weeks ago, this issue and this proposal will ultimately be considered personally by the members of my group. Mr. Chairman. We've been talking about this law for a while. When in 2016 Edith Schippers made a proposal for the delivery of the abortion pill by the general practitioner, the law required authorisation. A number of things have already been said about this. This met with objections, given the considerable administrative burden. The initiative law now before us no longer provides for a permit. At the same time, we must ensure that general practitioners have the right knowledge and skills in order to be able to accompany women carefully. After all, it is more than just providing a pill. Can the proposers take us on board again in the answer to the question of how they now see that a general practitioner has the right knowledge and skills? In particular, I ask this because the GP also assesses whether this is the case. In order to provide the abortion pill, a general practitioner must accredit himself through continuing training. Can the initiators indicate to what extent this training has already taken shape? How is it ensured that the training meets all the requirements to be able to provide the abortion pill? Do we know that the quality of care of the general practitioner is of the same level as that of abortion clinics? How we can ensure this is one of the most important questions for my group in this legislative proposal. The provision of an abortion pill for a general practitioner is not a basic care but a special general practitioner's care. This means that a general practitioner can decide whether or not to provide that care. Do the initiators have an idea of the number of general practitioners who will be willing to do so? How do they let women know in their practice whether they are prepared to do so? The general practitioners have indicated through the LHV and the NHG that they are in favour of the law. They would like to play a role in providing the abortion pill and also carefully accompany the whole process around the termination of pregnancy from their practice. Can the proposers indicate how many women are expected to make use of the option of getting the abortion pill to the general practitioner? On the other hand, abortion clinics are critical. Now I understand that they fear that fewer women will choose to come to the clinic, but I also read about concerns about the fragmentation of abortion care and therefore the quality of care. That also affects my point about knowledge and skill. I would like to receive a response from the initiators. Mr. Chairman. Then I shall continue with the funding of this issue. In the new law, general practitioners argue that the funding through the grant by VWS is a complex way for them to regulate this form of care. If this bill is adopted, we would like to see no red tape for general practitioners. How can these obstacles be best removed? This is a particular question I would like to put to the Minister. Increasing women's freedom of choice works both ways. The VVD notes that there is no abortion clinic in Friesland and Drenthe. I ask the Minister to be aware of this and to ensure that the national network of clinics continues to exist. This also gives women in those regions real freedom of choice. In fact, freedom of choice exists only if women are not prevented from entering such a clinic and do not have to wring themselves through protesters. The right of demonstration is a great good thing, but let us realize how vulnerable women are when they enter an abortion clinic. So let us also take a very good look at where we grant the women who wish to demonstrate that right. Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank colleagues in section K for the fact that this proposal is there and that we can talk about it today. I look forward to their reply and I am confident that there will eventually be a proposal that will allow us to deal with this carefully. Once again, it is not the place where the aid is provided that determines it, but the way in which we organise it. Whether in an abortion clinic, in a hospital or in a general practitioner, in all cases the balance with which I started my contribution must be found and to which I will also review this proposal: has there been a balance between the protection of unborn life and the helping and freedom of choice of women in need? I look forward to the answer given by the authors and ask them to take the point of this balance sheet, which is so important to my group, into account in their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u55	An interruption by Mr Stoffer, SGP, then by Mrs Paulusma and then by Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u56	The VVD and the SGP will not agree directly on this subject, but I can appreciate the emphasis being placed on this balance between women's right to self-determination and the value of unborn life. I have a strong impression that the VVD still has a lot of doubts as to whether that balance has been secured here. I don't doubt that at all. I have to tell you, I don't see that balance, just like the Council of State. If there is not a very good answer on this balance, can I assume that the VVD will vote against this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u57	The VVD is co-author of this law. We have had an initial discussion in the group and my group is also following this debate. In the end, each person makes the assessment after the end of the treatment. Personally, I am in favour of this bill. That's what I said. I believe, in fact, that by extending the possibility of women not only starting their whole abortion treatment with the general practitioner, but also being able to complete and get aftercare, we are strengthening the balance between protecting unborn life, freedom of choice and helping women in need. But this also applies with care. I have some questions about that. It's important to me. I await the answer. But in principle, I am in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u58	This will give you a little more clarity. In Mrs Hermans' contribution, I am told that she feels somewhat: is the value of unborn life sufficiently secured? Is that balance okay? What answers does Mrs Hermans have to get to convince herself? In other words, what answers should not come, which means that you say: I cannot agree to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u59	I have difficulty with Mr Stoffer trying to put words in my mouth that I did not say. I merely stressed the importance for my group, for the VVD, of the balance between the two principles of the law. That's no different than what I said about it two weeks ago. I repeat those words today. I find the freedom of choice incredibly important. I also think it is important that, with the possibility of getting the abortion pill to the general practitioner, we look at how we can design the customisation, the space for women to complete this complicated choice in the most appropriate way possible for them. But that care, which we have formulated with each other in Article 5 of the Law on Abruption pregnancy, remains paramount. This proposal therefore also calls for a general practitioner. It is not surprising that I am asking the petitioners here and through them also to the Minister how this care is secured here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u61	I do not want to put any words in Mrs Hermans' mouth. On the contrary, I am very pleased that the question of how this care is secured is being asked. But my question is what is needed for Mrs Hermans to see that it is secured. That's what I'd like to know. I do not see the assurance, the care with regard to unborn life in it. The Council of State is also critical of it. In any case, Mrs Hermans is also concerned about it, I think. My question, therefore, is this: what should the VVD still receive as answers to see that care in relation to unborn life in the eyes of the VVD is sufficiently secure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u62	There will be continuing training or accreditation of general practitioners as a condition for this type of care. I have a question about what that's going to look like and how it's going to be decorated, just because I want to know and want to hear it. In the end, I want to ensure that a woman in the family doctor, hospital or abortion clinic, wherever she goes for an abortion, can count on the same quality of care and careful guidance when reaching her decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u63	I also have a question about this care, but from a different angle than Mr Stoffer, I think. I have just mentioned the example of Sweden, where the availability of this abortion pill at the GP reduces the number of abortions. I could very well imagine that this wider availability will also do something to remove this issue from the taboo. In my opinion, this also contributes to the quality of care and perhaps also to the reduction in the number of unwanted pregnancies; at least, not unwanted pregnancies, but abortions. I wonder how Mrs Hermans looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u64	That could possibly be an effect, precisely because the GP is a well-known health care provider nearby, with which many women have a relationship of trust. So that might help to get the conversation going easier. Let us not forget that at the moment more than half of the women who are unwittingly pregnant are initially referred to the general practitioner and referred to abortion clinics. Luckily that conversation takes place in many cases, but it can be much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u65	Actually, my question has already been answered. We have formulated an ambition in the coalition agreement to prevent repeat abortions. This bill may contribute to this. I was curious to hear Mrs Hermans' opinion on this, but she has actually just answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u66	An interruption by Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u67	I'm replacing Mrs. Bikker today, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate you on your contribution and the balance you are setting out. The VVD hopes that the role of the general practitioner, who also has access to history and a relationship of trust, can lead to good decision-making. It could also mean that, given the situation, a GP sees very clearly what obstacles there may be in a woman's life, which means that a very difficult choice has to be made. Does the VVD consider that, if there are very material things, such as housing and finance, or someone who lives at home and threatens to get between shore and ship, the general practitioner should have a much firmer role in order to be able to act if he finds those things?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u68	That conversation with the GP when a woman discovers, finds out that she is unwantedly pregnant and comes before this difficult choice, is already taking place. Now she still has to go to an abortion clinic or hospital before her abortion treatment, but for aftercare she often also comes back to the general practitioner. It is precisely because the general practitioner already sees and speaks to women at many times, and is likely to be involved in the treatment, that he can also play a role in the prevention and aftercare, hopefully avoiding such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u69	The VVD and the Christian Union agree that aftercare is also important and that the GP can play a very important role in this. You also mentioned prevention. I wonder, however, what role and possibilities the general practitioner has when talking about freedom of choice and increasing it, and what opportunities the policy offers to the general practitioner to act, if there is a very fragile situation, for example by referring to housing, finance or education as the problem. What possibilities does the GP have to observe that 1 and 2 to act? Do you agree with me that if we give general practitioners that role, they also have an important role to play in facilitating that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u70	I hope I understand Mr Ceder's question. General practitioners are, of course, already playing this role, because a lot of women initially end up in the family doctor's office. The GP has a practice in the neighborhood, where often there are already contacts with neighbourhood teams, district teams, with other forms of care and support. You mentioned housing and finance, but it can of course also cover mental health or other forms of health. So that connection is there, but it can certainly be even better and stronger in certain areas in parts. But if that can also play a role in preventing unwanted pregnancies, we must never rule that out and we must see if additional steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then we'll go to Mr. Hijink of the SP. I suggest we suspend for a very short time and then move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to the authors of this law and, of course, to the support, for the hard work that has been put into it. We have, of course, talked very recently about abortion in this Chamber. I'd like to start with that. I would like to consider what the most important lesson for the SP was from that debate. The essence of this is that it is in the quality of care and the careful way in which the conversation between the woman and the doctor should take place. When it comes to the question of whether the abortion pill should also be provided through the general practitioner, we stick to that principle, namely that it is ultimately a matter of care. We do not think that women take a light decision on abortion, nor do we think that women are suddenly going to make a completely different choice if they can get an abortion from another health care provider; that would be a strange assumption. It is precisely because it must be a decision that is carefully taken that the government has a duty to prevent women from taking a decision under pressure that they might regret later. We think it is crucial that the woman herself ultimately decides whether or not to abort her pregnancy. At the same time, however, we can see that self-determination, i.e. the right to choice and to independence, can be under pressure when it comes to abortion, for example, when there is pressure from the environment, from the family or from others, so that this autonomous choice may no longer be so autonomous. That is precisely why it is very sensible that there should be a good conversation between the woman who is considering an abortion and a health care provider prior to an abortion. We see such a conversation, that kind of care, not at all as patronizing or paternalistic. Those are terms that you often hear in this discussion. On the contrary. It is precisely in that good conversation after an unwanted pregnancy that you can come to the conclusion that there really is, one hundred percent, a decision of your own, an independent and autonomous decision of the woman who wants an abortion. I mention this because in this debate on the abortion pill we also hear voices from the general practitioner rather quickly saying that this proposal does not really go far enough. I also refer to the discussion on whether or not to provide the abortion pill at the drugstore, at the Etos and the Kruidvat. Those are also proposals that are made about the abortion pill. It is precisely because it is a matter of care that I want to make it clear here that the SP does not want to go that way, that this is not a passable path for us, because the conversation that must take place in order to determine whether there is an autonomous, independent decision is a route that you must keep. So this does touch on the discussion we are having today. Of course, I must also say straight away that this is not the proposal that the proposers are making, but I would like to mention it here because these two things touch each other and I think it is important to clarify our position in this. It would therefore be good if the authors could reflect on this discussion. For it is not about offering the abortion pill at the drugstore, but the view of the proposers on such proposals can say more about the motivation, the intentions with which they have submitted this bill. I would like to address some of the concerns that the SP has about this law in terms of ensuring the quality and accessibility of abortion care. It is of course already the case that the general practitioner often plays an important role for women who want an abortion. More than half, I believe 55%, is shown by the studies, and at first the general practitioner is already present in the event of an unwanted pregnancy. Moreover, a general practitioner often does a large part of the follow-up checks, which is also important. It is therefore not the case that abortion for the general practitioner is a completely blank, new area. It's not an unknown subject. They are often already involved and some of the general practitioners also indicate that they are perfectly able to do the treatment. But the bar is set high when it comes to monitoring the quality, which is of course important. General practitioners must meet the same due diligence requirements as abortion clinics. The question of the SP to the applicants is to what extent that is feasible, to what extent that is a requirement that you can also make. Quality conditions must be set together with the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut). What will become of the distinction between, on the one hand, those clinics which are subject to a licence and remain subject to a licence and, on the other hand, those general practitioners who do not need a licence? Where will we see the difference when it comes to quality and, for example, enforcement? The SP is often critical of concentration of care, but especially when it comes to abortion, it has to be done very carefully. I would like to ask the proposers: are there no risks if you take that kind of care to general practitioners? Think of situations where the general practitioner may only experience this once or twice a year. Can a general practitioner who, as Mrs Westerveld said, is under heavy pressure and is already often overloaded be expected to have the same sharpness when it comes to identifying possible coercion? Can you expect the same sharpness and the same time and space as we now see in the clinics when determining whether the decision to have an abortion has certainly been taken one hundred percent voluntarily and independently? That's important. We would like an explanation of this. There are also practical concerns. For example, there is a need for a term echo, and most general practitioners do not, of course, have the equipment to do so at the moment. The question is: are they going to decorate on that? Is that what the initiators expect? Or do they assume, as they write in the explanatory memorandum, that general practitioners will cooperate with hospitals or with midwifery practices? Then my follow-up question is: to what extent does the argument remain that it is about a shorter route, a trusted and reliable route to the general practitioner, if a reference to the second line can still follow, for example to the hospital or to the midwife's practice? It may be from my own experience, but I can imagine that if you're considering an abortion as a woman, obstetrician practice isn't necessarily the best or most pleasant place to come for a term echo. This raises the question whether the objectives described in the explanatory memorandum can actually be achieved. We do have concerns about this, although at the same time we understand what the proposers are sending to. The National Family Doctors Association and the Dutch Family Doctors Society have stated that they support the proposal of the initiators. They also state that general practitioners are well able to provide that abortion pill safely and effectively. At the same time, they argue that treatment should not be covered by the basic offer but by the special offer, as should euthanasia. General practitioners can decide for themselves whether to provide the abortion pill in practice. On the basis of ethical or very practical objections, they may decide not to do so. I would like to join everyone who has asked if the proposers have an idea of the number of general practitioners that will do so. I think that question is relevant. If that is only a very small part, it weakens the arguments put forward by the authors in the explanatory statement that there really is more access and more women can then go to the general practitioner in which they have so much confidence. We also read that I am taking a sip of water, President... have had positive experiences, for example in Sweden and Austria, when it comes to providing abortion care to the general practitioner, especially for people living in rural areas or in a region where abortion care is far away. We've heard the examples from Friesland and Drenthe. I think Zeeland was mentioned as well. That is a real point. The question is whether this is a problem with the possible availability of the abortion pill at the GP or whether this is a problem with the distribution and quantity of clinics we have in our country. I would like to hear that consideration again from the proposers. Is the real problem of access to this kind of care by the general practitioner? Or could you also solve it by expanding the amount of clinics and improving the distribution of clinics? Mr. Chairman. The SP also asks these questions because this bill can give many women the expectation that abortion care can be offered much more often in their own environment. But I have already asked the question: what is the risk that women who get the feeling that they are going this way after this legal treatment will be disappointed? Can the initiators explain how many women are actually going to take care of that familiar contact through the GP? As I have just said, especially for many young women, the general practitioner is of course close but not necessarily a familiar face. If you are healthy and young, you often haven't had much contact with the general practitioner. If the GP is part of a practice, then often three, four or five GPs work together there. It has not been said at all that all five of them are also going to offer treatment. I would like to ask: if the argument of the proposers is that the familiar face is so crucial, how sure is it that this will unfold? We ourselves have made a small, absolutely non-representative, poll among a number of well-known general practitioners. We see division in that. On the one hand, there is indeed a group of general practitioners who say: we can do this well; let us do that, because it improves the accessibility and quality of care. On the other hand, we see all the practical and other objections, which have already been mentioned, which also means that some of the general practitioners say: we are not going to begin to do so. That complicates the trade-off. Changing the law is one thing, but if the practice is tough, then it is not said that access to and quality of abortion care are actually being improved. My question is: what guarantees are there for this? Mr. Chairman. I'm going a little over my speaking time, but I've got one more piece of paper. That's not so bad. The Dutch Society of Abortusartsen is critical of the bill. Like the SP, they see that access to abortion care can be improved if it reaches the general practitioners, but they also warn of the risks, most of which I have just mentioned. I ask the same question that I have asked Mrs Paulusma: what guarantees do I really think we should speak in terms of guarantees? That is a crucial point for us. It would be a real shame if this bill would allow more women to go to the general practitioner for abortion or if women could go there at all for abortion, but at the same time put pressure on or perhaps reduce that form of care in the clinics, because there will be far fewer abortions. That's the crux for us, I think. I'd just like to leave it at that. I look forward to the answer. I would like to thank the authors for all the good work they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u73	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks and then by Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u74	As I said in our little interruptive debate, I believe that Mr Hijink is right to ask questions here, including about availability. I would like to ask him: what guarantees does he need to be able to vote for this bill later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u75	Look, I understand perfectly well that the proposers can't indicate up to the decimal place: this GP is going to do it and not that one. I get that. The proposers and, in particular, the minister could make a clear commitment to this, perhaps we should in any way record that the number of clinics we have now and the distribution of the clinics we have now are not going to be reduced, that we are not going to mess around with opening hours, that we are not going to mess around with the deployment of staff at those locations, and that we are not going to break it down slowly, precisely to prevent the path for women who consciously choose to go through that anonymous route through the clinic from coming to a partial conclusion. That is what we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u76	Mrs. Westerveld? I see it's clear. Then there is another question from Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u77	Mr Hijink asked me the same question: how many general practitioners and general practitioners are expected to offer this kind of care? If I listen to you correctly, this may be an important part of the consideration for the SP Group. My question is: did I listen to that correctly? Is it in the number of general practitioners who want to make this decision or, ultimately, in the quality and care they can offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u78	I am thinking in particular of the latter. I can also see that the proposers and the Minister cannot offer any guarantee that an X number of general practitioners will offer it. But if, for example, it turns out that an overwhelming majority does not want it, I think that we still need to discuss it. Because then you come to that point: what expectations are you actually going to live up to? If you want to go to your own GP in a village or city, but if in the vast majority of cases that doesn't mean that the GP is also prepared for treatment and still has to refer it to another GP, to a hospital or to a clinic, what exactly is the point? I think we should have that discussion. Then you can say: yes, but then there is a profit for the part that can be made? Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u79	Actually, Mr. Hijink is saying somewhat what the second part of my interruption would be. Does he agree with me that the discussion should be mainly about what the reason is that these general practitioners, these practices, say they don't want to? Can we see if we can meet them there? Because then we avoid using that argument to not do something, while there is also a large group that would like to do it. We need to look at how we can increase women's freedom of choice, with all the guarantees of quality and care; I continue to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u80	Where the VVD speaks of freedom of choice, the SP would prefer to speak of accessibility and quality of care. Freedom of choice is important, but I think quality of care and access to care is even more important, because freedom of choice can also mean that you can choose from many different providers, who may not be at all suitable or deliver less quality. With us, therefore, it starts with quality and access. But I agree with you that it is always good to look further: if general practitioners see problems or barriers, then investigate where the problem is. At the same time, I note that some of these problems have already been incorporated into the legislative proposal, namely the requirements, the availability of equipment, but still have to be referred to an obstetric practice or a hospital for the term echo. These are, of course, serious things, which may mean that for a general practitioner he thinks: yes, if I have to do all that anyway, what exactly does it add? I would like to hear the authors about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u81	Finally, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u82	Finally, in order to ensure that there is no doubt about this. For me, for the VVD Group, freedom of choice is about the choice of women: in what place, what location, am I best helped in this very complicated decision I stand for? Whether she chooses the hospital, the general practitioner or the abortion clinic, it is ultimately about the accessibility, the quality and the care that is offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u83	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u84	Very good. We haven't come to the end of that yet, but I'm suspending for a single moment. We'll continue with Mrs. Maeijer from the PVV. We're a little more flexible with time, because we're dealing with legal treatment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u85	I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing Mrs Ellemeet's own-initiative proposal, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Paternotte and Mrs Tellegen: the proposal to empower the general practitioner to carry out a medical termination of pregnancy in pregnancy up to nine weeks. That is a competence that now lies with hospitals and abortion clinics. The Netherlands stands out in terms of abortion care compared to the countries around us. The number of abortions is below the European Union average and abortion care is easily accessible. Care is free and anonymous if it goes through an abortion clinic. In addition, the number of abortions in the Netherlands has been relatively stable for years and there is a decreasing trend among the number of abortions in teenage pregnancies. This is probably due to good sexual education and guidance. Also, the annual reports or the last evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act do not reveal any real defects. Mr. Chairman. The current legal framework is based on a number of principles, such as the protection of unborn life on the one hand and the belief that the woman who requests the termination of an unwanted pregnancy on the other hand should be assisted. Today, only abortion clinics and hospitals are authorized to break down pregnancies in a medical manner. They need a permit for this. The woman who now turns to the general practitioner will therefore be referred to. The initiators want to change this. They believe that the general practitioner should also be authorised to perform a medical termination of pregnancy during pregnancy up to nine weeks. This increases women's freedom of choice and autonomy. After all, she can choose whether she wants to receive help from a general practitioner, in the hospital or in an abortion clinic. For many women, the general practitioner would also be the trusted professional with accessible access. It saves travel time and costs and the basis is great. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, the Council of State says that the initiative law changes the balance in the current legislation and that "a supporting justification for the change in the balance sheet affected" is lacking. The Council of State also says: "Enhancing women's freedom of choice by allowing them to break off unwanted pregnancy in a trusted health care provider, the Section considers that there is insufficient reason to alter the balance of the situation and to undermine the current system and its careful practice." Mr. Chairman. Here's the dilemma. I will not make a plea today for or against this law. In the PVV Group, the vote on this proposal is a free matter. I will therefore use my speaking time today to get answers to as many questions as possible from the authors and hopefully also from the Minister, so that everyone can finally make an informed decision for that vote, including myself. Mr. Chairman. You might want to hold on to the seat belts, 'cause I've got a few more questions. My first question to the authors is therefore a more fundamental one. Is it true that, as the Council of State states, the initiative proposal shifts the balance? I am referring to the balance between the protection of unborn life on the one hand and the right to self-determination and the right to help the unwanted pregnant woman on the other. And, if so, how do the initiators consider that and what are their arguments for this? I would also like to hear a reflection from the Minister. The proposers argue that there is now a large group of women who could potentially have stayed with the GP, because a majority of them first report to that GP. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicants still assume a rate of 57%. More recent figures indicate 52%. How do the proposers assess the decreasing percentage of women who report directly to the GP? Freedom of choice is a great asset. Are there any figures of women indicating that they would have stayed with the GP if they could have? Research also shows, for example, that many women do not know that they can go directly to a clinic and therefore turn to the general practitioner. It seems relevant to me to know whether this bill actually meets women's needs and can therefore have added value. Mr. Chairman. The proposers felt that it should be possible for the abortion pill to be provided via the general practitioner in an easily accessible manner. This means that abortion care is now insufficiently accessible and accessible. How do the proposers and the Minister assess accessibility and accessibility in the current situation? The aim of the law, according to the authors, is not to ensure that more women opt for treatment, nor that it is easier to opt for a pregnancy break-up. It's not supposed to turn into a recipe. Even alternatives to pregnancy termination may be better discussed with the general practitioner. Do the proposers think that easier opting for a pregnancy break can be an unintentional consequence of this law? Are there more recent figures, other than those mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, from other countries where the general practitioner has long been competent to provide the abortion pill? I believe that the figures mentioned are from the 1990s and are about Sweden. Can the proposers also assess this possible effect in conjunction with the flexibilisation of the period of reflection? Mr. Chairman. The previous bill of then Minister Schippers was based on a specific licence requirement for general practitioners. The current bill releases this licensing obligation. This is replaced by accreditation, including training. The initiators argue that a licence requirement for general practitioners entails a disproportionate burden and that the authorisation requirement for clinics is particularly important for surgical termination of pregnancy, so that all hygiene requirements of the establishment can be checked. The aim of the licensing system, as we read in the explanatory memorandum to the 1978 bill, was also to ensure, if a decision is taken on the termination of pregnancy, that this procedure takes place under conditions which are as responsible as possible from a medical and nursing point of view. According to Minister Schippers' bill, it was necessary to maintain this licence obligation, because medical restrictions had to be imposed. I'd like a reflection on that. Does not a permit also guarantee knowledge, skills and experience of the staff and the clinic? In addition, an authorisation shall be checked, maintained and, where appropriate, withdrawn by the inspection. How's this gonna go with an accreditation later? Will the quality of abortion care be guaranteed by the general practitioner at the same level as now? I'd like an explanation. Finally, Mr President. No consultation is included in the own-initiative proposal. The authors refer to previous reactions of the Dutch Family Doctors Society to the proposal of Minister Schippers. The NHG states that the delivery of the abortion pill through the general practitioner is safe and effective. I think that was a response to the earlier proposal. Are there any recent reactions, specifically to this bill? In an article from November 2020 in Medical Contact, some abortion doctors argue that this plan is not going to help women. Are the proposers familiar with this article? If so, what is their response to this? Mr. Chairman. General physician Peter Leusink states in an article that a large group, almost half, of the general practitioners intends to provide the abortion pill as soon as it is legally permitted. Is that right? Has that been investigated? Today, two general practitioners in Trouw argue not to burden the profession with this. Can the proposers give a more detailed explanation of the support given to general practitioners? Finally, how do they deal with the above-mentioned practical issues such as the workload and the need for ultrasound equipment? Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions for the time being. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u87	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u88	Good critical questions from the PVV Group. In the beginning I noticed that Mrs Maeijer indicated that it was a free matter at the PVV. Now I am curious to see how Mrs Maeijer herself stands, but in consequence: does this mean that the PVV is going to request a roll-call vote on this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u89	To start with that last point: I don't know yet. I should check that out. I haven't applied for this yet. We're working on the first term. Then there is the second point: how I stand in it. I just reported that, I thought. The answers to the questions I have just asked are very important to me in order to arrive at a balanced judgment. I think it is a difficult issue in which many interests are involved. I'd like to weigh it very carefully for myself. Hence my numerous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u90	Good. Mrs Maeijer understands, of course, that I hope that it will take the opposite vote. But let me come back to the aspect of voting. If you make it a free matter, it must be a roll-call vote. I will help Mrs Maeijer: a roll-call vote has been requested from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u91	If I may respond to that? I realize that, of course, that was the only possible conclusion of the fact that it is a free matter. That was a somewhat stupid answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u92	Well... Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Then I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am speaking today on behalf of my group colleague, Mirjam Bikker, who is at home sick and very involved in watching. I have been told that we have had a worthy debate over the last week, and I hope to contribute to it now too. Again, we'll meet in this Chamber about the law breaking off pregnancy. At the beginning of this contribution, I am committed to mentioning that I am very aware of the need, the grief, and the often extremely complicated situations of women who have faced this choice or have stood in the past. In that sense, I want to have this debate, which requires care, of me, of all of us. The unwanted pregnancy places you in front of so many questions and choices. An ethical dilemma, and unfortunately too often women are on their own. There must be good care for them, and also for unborn life. That also has intrinsic value in itself. I would like to ask the authors how they consider this aspect in their proposal. They do not want a change in the balance sheet, but what they did not know at the time and what we are seeing now is that, in addition to their proposal, there is also an initiative legislative proposal on the set time limit for voting in this Chamber; I think tomorrow. How do they weigh this balance? And how do they consider the care that general practitioners should give in terms of the value of unborn life? Do the proposers see the vulnerability that the combination of these legislative proposals and the collusion can contribute to lowering the threshold for the choice of abortion? Perhaps the proposers see that differently, but how would they prosecute it? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State was critical of this proposal. It is true that good and trusted care should be provided, but is this bill really an improvement? These are sincere questions. Will no more women go to the doctor with the expectation that they will no longer have to travel to a clinic and then discover that there will still be an echo to be made elsewhere for the determination of the term? Mr. Chairman. In conversation with women who have had to deal with a medical breakdown, the group noticed how often women were attacked by the intensity of this treatment. It is precisely then that experience, expertise and care of a specialist could be added value. Is that a general practitioner's route? Those are sincere questions and concerns of the Christian Union. Should we not consider how support could be improved in today's practice? My group also has concerns about general practitioners who do not want to implement the proposal, which has yet to be adopted. The second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act clearly showed that the field is best distributed. Have the initiators spoken to the general practitioners, and in particular to the general practitioners who have these concerns? When we talk about general practitioners, the picture is often that the general practitioner is a trusted care provider for everyone. That is what we have been given back in this debate today. But the reality is more rigid, because unfortunately that is not always the case in many places. There are fewer and fewer self-employed general practitioners. More and more often there are large-scale general practitioners where a personal connection is unfortunately less. If I combine that with how little a GP will get this question, the estimate is that it will be on one hand to count, then I wonder whether it will actually succeed in meeting the requirements of the law. The latest review of the law rightly pointed out that it would be rather complicated for the IGJ to supervise properly. In this context, do the applicants not see the added value of a licence rather than the proposed accreditation? How do they intend to ensure the quality of care if a general practitioner has to deal with such treatment once or twice at most? In recent months, all groups have received many signals from general practitioners about the gravity of their tasks. It is difficult, it is difficult and as a government we intend to transfer more tasks and give the general practitioner a much more important social role. There are also concerns about a shortage of general practitioners. That is why I would like to ask the initiators how they look at this bill in this light. I would ask the Minister to ensure that general practitioners who do not wish to obtain accreditation or authorisation will not suffer any negative consequences with regard to their clients or patients. I also ask him to consider how good care will be provided if this bill reaches a majority. I also ask the proposers how they weigh the differences in urban areas and regions. In some neighbourhoods, this bill may require a lot from the general practitioner. In some regions this may be very little. Is it not wise for good care, for proper conversations to be made, to investigate that first? Have the proposers considered, for example, first exploring the effects of such a proposal in smaller areas? In a district with unfortunately a lot of teenage pregnancies or many repeat aborts a lot will be asked of a general practitioner. If this law comes into force, there is also a duty of care for doctors. They should be able to take good care of their patients. On the other hand, in the written preparation, my group expressed concerns about lowering the threshold. This will also vary by region or city. Shouldn't there be more clarity about this before going through it all over the country? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group has a great deal of concern about this bill. We see that aid for women in emergency situations can and must really be much better. The decision of women to opt for abortion is often based on socio-economic motives, such as living, living, studying and many other concerns. No matter how you feel about abortion, everyone wants to contribute to reducing the number of abortions and, above all, repeated abortions. We therefore ask that we look only at the possibilities for general practitioners in the best of their ability to refer in the social domain. There must be a local network with, for example, housing, social work, student guidance and volunteers who would like to support a young mother. If this bill were to reach a majority, the Christian Union really hopes that this freedom of choice will be increased. The Minister promised to come forward with the coalition agreement before 1 May to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies. I would therefore urge the Minister to include this aspect as well, because for all women in this emergency, I sincerely hope that they will find people who want to listen, walk up with them and support them. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, Mrs van der Plas cannot attend this debate. I am also expressing my contribution on her behalf. As I pointed out in the debate on lifting the period of reflection, my group wants to make a medical contribution to the often highly ideologically motivated debates on abortion. As a group, we find each other firmly committed to jointly contributing to informed and careful legislation on medical-ethical dossiers. Legislation that does justice to the important interests that play a role. In that we seek our way, without pretending to have the ultimate answer ready for questions that sometimes fail to answer. In our group, votes of a highly medical-ethical nature will always be a free matter, in which each Member of the European Parliament can make an individual assessment that does justice to his or her conscience. Then today's law. The initiators are clear about their motivation. Women who have a choice to terminate their pregnancy are in a vulnerable position. They are entitled to optimal and quality good, accessible and safe care. Optimal and high-quality, accessible and safe care is, of course, also an important objective for my group, whether it concerns the care of pregnancy break-ups or otherwise. However, looking at the responses from the healthcare field itself, my group doubts whether this bill is the way to bring this optimal care closer. We have great reservations, which are in line with the fundamental criticism of the Council of State. In 2016, former Minister Schippers presented a first proposal for early termination of pregnancy, the overtime treatment, to the GP. Mrs Hermans mentioned that as well. We are also talking about the treatment with the abortion pill, but within the first 45 days of pregnancy. That's a short six-and-a-half week. The current proposal of the initiators is about the same medication, but for a period of 63 days of pregnancy, nine weeks. However, the original deadline is better in line with the advice of the Dutch Family Doctors Society, the NHG. They state in their most recent position on medical termination of pregnancy in general practitioners' practice that "the effectiveness and safety is greater up to 45 days and the risk of complications is less than 63 days." My group wonders whether it is not advisable to bring the overtime treatment to the general practitioner first. If the role of general practitioners is to be increased, this is accompanied by fewer risks and is therefore less significant. In addition, there is no need to change the law. The general practitioner can perform an overtime treatment without a Waz permit. The only thing that needs to change is that the Minister must correct the IGZ interpretation concerning the ban on the delivery of the abortion pill for the over-time treatment. My group would like to hear whether the initiators see this as a possible intermediate phase. This includes a much less far-reaching process, both in practice and in terms of legislation. This time can be used to gather and evaluate more information about the new situation for general practitioners and patients. I would like to ask both the initiators and the Minister for reflection. My group attaches great importance to medical care requirements. That is why we tabled a motion on this during the previous debate. The basic principles seem to be at risk here. Many general practitioners have little or no experience with medical terminations of pregnancy. They only see a handful of women a year who want an abortion. It seems useful not to impose a licence on them, but it is strange to demand this from hospital departments and abortion clinics, which are specialised in gynecological care and abortion care, and not for general practitioners who have much less experience with this. In addition, you may wonder about the practical skills, such as timing and conversations about options. Can these skills be kept in sufficient order with so few hours of flight time, in a situation where extreme care is required, as in no other situation? How do the initiators intend to ensure quality medical care and keep the skills of the general practitioners who are required to perform these treatments in order? Do they share my group's concern that accreditation alone is too low for this? Various practical advantages are mentioned in the present legislative amendment proposal. There is talk of accessibility, travel time and even absence from work. My group has doubts about the solutions that the legislative amendment would offer to this effect. For example, the bill assumes a fairly close relationship between the general practitioner and the patient. This has also been mentioned before. Unfortunately, in practice we see a very different movement. More and more general practitioners opt for partnerships, where patients can get a different doctor each time. This close bond is then hardly built up. Should there be any mention of that old-fashioned family doctor, this could lead to other problems. Do patients feel free to ask an abortion to a doctor they've known since they were young and where their whole family gets over the floor? Also not all general practitioners have echo equipment available, let alone the expertise to make a good assessment of the pregnancy period. This then leads to a second consultation with the midwife, another possibly unknown aid worker, with another chance of a few days waiting. Finally, the abortion pill must be picked up from the pharmacy and thus registered with the health insurance provider. Anonymity will therefore be guaranteed to a much lesser extent than is currently the case in abortion clinics. My group would like to hear how the initiators look at these various practical objections. The Council of State is particularly critical of this initiative proposal. At the heart of the criticism is that the quest for even more speed and freedom of choice pushes aside all care and balance. I quote a crucial passage. "The proposal does not pay attention to (guarantees for) careful decision-making on medical termination of pregnancy by the general practitioner. This changes the balance between the importance of the protection of unborn life and the right to self-determination and assistance for unwanted pregnant women. There is no supporting justification for changing the balance sheet. To increase women's freedom of choice by giving them an opportunity to break off an unwanted pregnancy with a trusted health care provider, the Section considers that there is insufficient reason to alter the balance and to undermine the current system and the careful practice." Mr. Chairman. No attention to care and no balance: these are not the least words. I would like to ask the Minister, in his role as advisor to the Chamber, how he weighs this harsh judgment. Finally, Mr President. A well-known English saying is: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. During the debate on the period of reflection on abortion, abortion practice in the Netherlands was praised by almost every political group. Rightly so, because research shows that our abortion practice is very effective and very accessible. The clinics have a large amount of expertise, with the centralisation of abortion practice playing a major role. By extending sixteen abortion clinics to nearly 10,000 general practitioners, there is a huge fragmentation. Is this the optimal care that I started my contribution with, for the better? Several drivers of abortion clinics say not in medical contact. The Council of State is dismissive. Professional organisations are critical. My final question to the initiators: is it not better, with so many concerns from the medical field and the serious criticism of the Council of State, to evaluate the substance of the proposal properly? Isn't this how the drug becomes an end in itself? It has everything to do with losing sight of the real goal, the best possible care. I am very curious to hear the answers of the initiators and the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u96	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u97	Mrs Pouw rightly asks a number of questions about the careful procedure and how it will be dealt with by the general practitioners. My question concerns the quote that Mrs Pouw read from the opinion of the Council of State. Those were indeed firm words, but the initiators also responded extensively to this in the letter we received as a Chamber. Partly as a result of the quote that was just read out, the initiators modified and modified the bill. My question is: how does the JA21 group assess the amended bill in response to the criticism of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u98	Thank you for the question. We are certainly seeing progress in relation to the draft bill before the Council of State's opinion, but we are wondering whether it fully reflects the criticism of the Council of State and whether this is sufficient. I would therefore like to hear a response from the Minister: how he weighs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u99	Then where exactly is the doubt? What is the element of which you say: we need more comfort in order to reach our judgment on this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u100	That is particularly about the balance sheet. This bill looks primarily at the position of women. That is, of course, a very important one. It is precisely in the design of this law that we must look very closely at the tension between, on the one hand, unborn life and, on the other hand, the autonomy of women. This is very much about accessibility and accessibility, which should lead to an increase in autonomy. With a number of practical objections I have raised, I have indicated that we have doubts as to whether this will actually happen. Assuming this is done, the Council of State clearly states that this balance is lost. I thought that phrase was pretty harsh. If there really is no balance, then of course that is a very harsh judgement. A number of hand-outs have been made in the legislation. We wonder whether the balance sheet has been restored in full or in part. This is precisely what we would like to ask experts for an opinion on, in this case the VWS Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u101	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you, Mr President. The CDA has explained in recent weeks that all human life, including unborn life, deserves protection, which we attach to the balance between the protection of unborn life on the one hand and the autonomous consideration of women in need on the other, that the reflection period we have discussed in recent weeks is inextricably linked to this, and that we want to offer women in a vulnerable position, even if it were a minority, guidance and guarantees in their decision-making through the care of the procedure, the guidance and during the period of reflection. Not paternalism, but care, assurance and looking after your neighbors, as far as we're concerned. Mr. Chairman. Now there is another aspect of this issue, of abortion, through the initiative proposal of the initiators in trade union K, namely the possibility of allowing general practitioners to play an additional role in the early termination of pregnancy because the abortion pill or pills can also be provided via the general practitioner. As far as the CDA is concerned, the present proposal really has a different character than the initiative proposal around the reflection period. The initiators do not, if we have understood correctly, need to make changes to the decision-making procedure, the due diligence requirement and the safeguards. However, they intend to add a trusted health care professional to the actual practitioners in an early termination of pregnancy, the general practitioner. There are reasons for that. The general practitioner often has a role to play: about 55% of women first go to the general practitioner if they are unintentionally pregnant. The GP is often well accessible and physically close. Especially in a few areas in the Netherlands, the distance to an abortion clinic is simply large. The clinics are not evenly distributed. The general practitioner is a trusted person and often already knows the women. The general practitioner usually also has a role in the aftercare after an abortion, even if it has taken place in an abortion clinic or in a hospital. This bill or the role of the general practitioner may also help to reduce the number of repeated abortions. Why should the general practitioner not, in so far as he or she is open to doing so, be able to provide the medication to the woman in order to cause the termination of pregnancy to occur and to accompany the woman in doing so? Can the initiators confirm that adding a possible handler is their sole aim with this initiative legislative proposal? It is up to the woman to choose whether in such a precarious situation she prefers to be treated by her doctor or in a clinic. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions for the initiators. How is it ensured that the abortion pill is not seen too easily as an alternative form of contraception via an accessible health care provider such as the GP? The initiators do not impose the authorisation requirement for abortion clinics and hospitals on general practitioners. That's what they're doing. They're doing the same thing. Instead, due diligence and quality requirements are laid down for general practitioners through an AMvB, including training and accreditation. There are also cooperation agreements with clinics and hospitals, should complications occur. Can the initiators explain how this works in practice? Are quality and expertise sufficiently comparable, even in the event of complications? Following Mrs Pouw-Verweij from JA21, I would like to ask a question about the deadline. The medical termination of pregnancy can take up to nine weeks, but with overtime treatment the time limit is six weeks and two days. We already have a separate legal regime for that. Therefore, how do they see the comments of the NHG on the complications? How would the period of reflection work here? It has a different legal basis for the overtime treatment than for the extended period of up to nine weeks. Practically speaking, an echo will also have to be done via the GP in order to determine the term of pregnancy; several colleagues have also spoken about this. There are few general practitioners who have such expensive equipment and can actually set the time limit. In the note we read that reference could be made to midwife practice, but I think: there goes your anonymity as a woman. If you report to the GP, it could be for a variety of reasons. At the time I was supposed to report to an obstetrician practice, the neighbor already congratulates me on my pregnancy. How do they see that? Finally. What does this mean for the sustainability of current abortion clinics and abortion care? That is also a question I would like to ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal does not increase the possibility of a termination of pregnancy or of a termination of pregnancy, and it does not change the conditions for abortion or its safeguards. The bill does, however, increase women's choice. They can choose a trusted doctor in the area or an unknown doctor in a clinic or hospital. The CDA understands the intention of the initiators and the additional possibility offered to a woman in need to involve a trusted treatment provider. This can provide support and added value for a woman in need. In fact, we hope that this can also contribute to the reduction of the repeat abortions, precisely because of the treatment relationship. The prevention of repeat abortions is an important aspect for us. We are pleased that we have included further agreements on this in the coalition agreement. How do the initiators look at this? How are we going to make this concrete? And can we also monitor how this could contribute to that? Mr. Chairman. We are therefore not in advance opposed to this proposal, but, as you have heard, we still have a number of questions on this subject, in particular on practice. How could this work? What are the initiators' views on an idea of first running a test, for example with a number of general practitioners in a particular region, as a pilot or experiment? I saw in the report that the SP has also made suggestions for this. General practitioners can gain experience with that. We can consider the experience of women. We can see what it means for abortion care, for abortion clinics. We could take that with us. Carefulness, that's all we care about. That's gotta come first. We would at least like to add a monitoring and evaluation clause to the initiative legislative proposal, and at all to the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. We are therefore preparing an amendment on this point. Mr President, I shall conclude. As I mentioned two weeks ago: for the CDA care is not primarily a pill, a product or a medical treatment, but a meaningful relationship. This bill may contribute to this, but it does require an answer to the practical questions before us. We are very curious about the reaction of the initiators in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u103	There's been an interruption by Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u104	Yes, because I assumed that Mrs Palland had finished her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u105	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u106	Then this is a good timing. Mrs Palland rightly mentions a number of positive points in this bill, including the treatment relationship with the general practitioner. The bill may also help to prevent repeat abortions. After that, she indicated that the CDA is not in advance dismissive. I wonder if she can explain what it now needs to be able to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u107	That's what those questions are all about. I would like to confirm that the objective is to actually add an aid worker, rather than make it simpler and faster, and that we do not lose the quality of the current abortion care. I think that is actually at the heart of the question I am asking here, but I have also heard it from a number of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u108	These seem to me to be important elements, so thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u109	Thank you, Mrs Palland. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u110	The rest of the debate will be planned at a time to be determined. I wish one of the initiators, Mrs Tellegen, well-being. Also to one of the spokesmen, Mrs Bikker, much better. Once again, good luck with the preparations. I thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport for his presence here, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:00 p.m. Then we start the debate on gas extraction in Groningen.
