ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on text messages on the Prime Minister's phone. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. I have just shared with Members that we have a hard deadline, namely 4:00 p.m., given the Prime Minister's urgent duty to work. We need to be able to manage this together if there is some self-control in the number of interruptions and their length. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, on a point of order. This cabinet had resigned because of unprecedented injustice. Things have happened from the government to parents and children, which have worked out extremely dramatically. Today, the committee debate is planned on UHT and progress on everything related to the compensation and recovery of parents. Those parents are looking forward to that. I am really sorry that this Prime Minister's behaviour is helping some people who would do that debate to some extent not be able to do so. I would like to say that I think that this committee debate is more important than listening to the Prime Minister here all afternoon. So I would say to myself that I want to do that committee debate at some point, also because I have been fighting for these parents for years and these parents deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, that's clear. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	That goes for me, too. I think we're standing here too fast. I just wanted to ask some experts what's going on. I'd have wanted one more piece, too. Since I am speaking later in the term, I am asking now, because then the government can send the answer in advance. I'd like to know exactly what the state's attorney said in court. You know, that's the office where fraud has been committed and that the government simply continues to use it. That's why I really want... yes, I do, Prime Minister. He doesn't have to shake no. The last time he shook no, it was yes. That's where fraud was committed. I would like to know exactly what the national attorney said and wrote in court and whether he said that only twenty texts can be saved. And if so, where does that come from? I would like to write the precise report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. We'll pass this on to the cabinet. Then I'll look at Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would like to touch on Mr Azarkan's point. He is the chairman of the group, I am the chairman of the group and Mr Omtzigt is the chairman of the group. Of course, we would prefer to have that debate on the childcare allowance. Because that's really about something very important and this is... I don't want to say "noise," but I do agree with Mr Azarkan's words. Because of the Prime Minister's behaviour, we have to make choices. I would therefore like to propose that we look at the order of speakers. As things stand at present, I could say a few words about this at 5 p.m. this afternoon, or perhaps not until 1.30 p.m. when the committee debate begins; we will be out of here by 5 p.m. I would therefore ask that the order of the speakers be adjusted so that those who are going to follow the committee debate on the increases could at least have spoken at 12 noon. We also have a conversation with parents prior to the committee debate. I'd really like to be there for that, too. Then we can leave this debate at some point to follow that other, most important debate. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I would like to say that yesterday the House decided by a majority to hold this debate today. So that's also a Chamber speech. I'll take a look at the members. Mrs van der Plas's proposal... Those who register first are normally the first to speak. Is there support for Mrs van der Plas' proposal to give priority to those who are also spokesmen in the committee debate? Is there anyone who would object to that? Let me ask you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	It is precisely not good information sharing that has prevented timely intervention in the supplementing affair. It is extremely important that this debate is conducted properly. As far as I am concerned, this committee debate could perhaps begin a little later, but of course I fully understand that those who are speaking here today want to speak there as well. I therefore support this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I see that there is support for your request to the spokesmen in the committee debate. I think it would be a good idea if I first suspend briefly to see what the new list of participants looks like. I also think it would be good to see if the committee debate could be postponed a little over time. So that's what I'm gonna ask. I will suspend the meeting for a single moment; then I will have the current list of participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	I propose that we start with Mr Klaver van GroenLinks as the applicant for the debate. Mr Azarkan van DENK then spoke to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then Mr Omtzigt. Then we keep the order of the list of participants. In the meantime, let's see if the committee debate can be postponed. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr President, thank you. A number of colleagues have already referred to it in the debate on the matter: this Prime Minister has resigned because of the surcharge scandal. One of the promises made in the letter of resignation was: We're going to do it differently. Public information systems need to be improved. It was also said that we must ensure that what happened there can never again prevent the Chamber from doing its job and that journalists can do their job. Unfortunately, today we have to say again that nothing has come of this promise, because today we are not talking about a jolly Prime Minister, in the sense of: what a special man, with his old car or his old phone. This is about a pattern. That's the pattern in which memos on dividend taxation wouldn't exist. Guess what? They were there, but "we called it "notes." It's the pattern in which the receipt of the Bitch Deal was lost, but it turned out to be there. It is the pattern of no minutes of discussions about the surcharge scandal, the pattern of no memories of Hawija and of the bombing there, no active memories of Pieter Omtzitzit and the comments made about "function elsewhere." Now we hear the Prime Minister deleted his texts himself. It's a pattern. That is why we are here to have this debate today. We can't do this, and we can't do this. I see a line of defense was rigged yesterday at the General Affairs Department. The Prime Minister is now hiding behind the document "Keeping chat messages" of the government. He says, "Look, I don't have to keep it, because my officials have to keep it." Examples are given for this. Here too, there is only half the truth, because I say to the Prime Minister that under this directive it is true that he, if his officials also have messages, does not have to keep them on his own phone. Then you may wonder if it's wise to erase them, but he's right. That's not what the discussion is about. There is another very important point that is being made. If there is any contact with third parties, I should like to mention just one: for example, the ceo of Unilever or the mayor of the capital city, it is the responsibility of the Prime Minister and not of his officials to keep such messages. This can be done in different ways, such as screenshots, export or archive mobile. In all the Wob requests we read back yesterday, I don't see anything in these contacts with third parties. That's why I have the following questions. How often has it happened that messages from third parties and messages between two directors have been forwarded to the Ministry of General Affairs? If the Prime Minister says that he has more or less complied with the Directive on the retention of chat messages, how has he done so? Have screenshots been saved, mobile archived, and how much has been forwarded? How many messages does the Prime Minister actually receive and send when he texts and how many are archived in total? The letter also talks very handy about the provider. It is said that the telephone provider cannot retrieve the text messages. That's right. We'll never know what was erased on such a Nokia again; you'll never find out. But the metadata are available: to which phone numbers has been texted at what times? How many messages have been sent and how many have been received, at least in the last three months? I am not asking for that to be sent to the House of Representatives as a whole. I don't think that's relevant. What I do find relevant is the answer to the question of how many texts this Prime Minister sends. How many are he receiving and how many are archived, especially when it comes to contacts with third parties, with captains or industry and other directors in the country and in the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. We're not standing here because of one deleted text. We are standing here, as I said, because of a pattern and because we promised each other in the debate on 1 April: we are going to do things differently; we want an open and transparent government in which all the decisions that are taken can be controlled. This is not the case at the moment by the active action of this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to my fellow Members for changing the order on the list of speakers, because we are going to have the very important debate in which we must do justice to all the parents and children who are victims of the government's actions, which this Prime Minister has been leading for 11 years. Mr. Chairman. How do you guard your own boundaries? And what happens if you stretch those boundaries too often and let others go over them? I was at a birthday party last week with my youngest daughter. You know how it is. You see all these kids running together and it seems very chaotic, but there's still a line in it. When one of the bigger kids in the game didn't follow the rules, actually just played mean, that was the reason for some kids to ring the bell. And how did they do that? They all shouted at once: stop, stop! And that wasn't easy. For declaring boundaries and standing up for yourself is not easy, certainly not against a commoner who is greater and has a lot of power. But if you don't guard those boundaries, it could have very bad consequences, both for the perpetrator and for the victim. Mr. Chairman. This is the umpteenth time Rutte has crossed those borders, the limits of the parliamentary rule of law. Rutte knew Zijlstra was lying and he withheld this information. He said, "I don't have an active memory of it." This Prime Minister knew there were memos about the dividend tax, and then he said, "I have no memory of it." This Prime Minister lied about "Pieter Ommzigt, function elsewhere." And then he said, "I remembered it wrong." Mr. Chairman. People who have been in power for years, like Mark Rutte, have little insight into their own behavior. They're not always aware that they're crossing borders. That is why it is crucial that we, as a parliament, as a supervisory body, help them to do so. We already see the consequences if we don't. We saw that Hugo de Jonge, who had misinformed the Chamber, maintained in the debate that he was not. In fact, he also used a private address when he wasn't supposed to. He also insisted that all that was within the law. But what Rutte has been doing for years, that's the norm. And if we allow that standard, if we here as a Chamber allow the Cabinet to determine what information is stored and what information is shared with that Chamber, then we simply cannot do our job. That does something to you inside. I saw the best example at Gert-Jan Segers, April 1st last year. He literally said, "Something snaps." If you go on too long with someone else who crosses the line, something snaps, like you feel something breaking. Because Segers often operates politically on the basis of principles, at least that is what he often suggests, he said after another lie: there is a way of dealing with the truth that is problematic for us; there must be an end to that culture, because this is detrimental to our political culture. D66 leader Kaag had the same thing. She said, "This is where we part ways." Unfortunately that only lasted a second or ten, while the rest of the Netherlands had the idea that she really wanted to stick to that. Mr. Chairman. We always get the same line of defense. Mr Klaver has already spoken about this. In the letter, the Prime Minister writes that there are no substantive points of departure for a selection. That is the framework for employees, but not for prime ministers. He will say: I may have gone too far, but I have gone too far. No one gets that. Mr. Chairman. Do we continue to regard this Prime Minister as an incident outside the parliamentary rule of law? Or are we gonna climb up here and take our part back? Because it is detrimental to our political culture. Gert-Jan Segers said that last year. Are we standing with a straight back for all those Dutch people who voted for us? For it is time that we set limits and say to this Prime Minister: stop, stop!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Chamber for cooperating. President and citizens of the Netherlands here in the gallery and also at home. What do you get when the word "susage" writes without vowels? I may be surprised, shocked or angry here, but I'm not. We've known what we're up to since April 1st last year. Since 1 April 2021 everyone in this Chamber and in the country knows very well where it is going. This prime minister seems to be fooling around with transparency, making fun of accountability and, above all, making fun of the House of Representatives. And you know, I don't even really blame the Prime Minister, because the coalition parties keep letting him get away with it. That the Prime Minister's own party supports him, alla. That power party D66 supports him, alla. But that two parties with their roots in standards and values, two parties that derive their ideas from biblical principles, that these two parties maintain this sketch again and again and carry this principleless monster cabinet in their hands, I really can't add to that. A look at the polls might reveal why the CDA is doing this, but the Christian Union... Actually, this is not a debate with the Prime Minister, but a debate in which we might try to convince Mr Segers to stand firm in favour of democratic principles and put a stop to this. He's holding the key. The formation process that preceded this cabinet will go down in history as the longest we have had. The cause: trust, and especially the lack of it. This has several causes, including, of course, the forgetfulness of our Prime Minister and his lack of transparency. Partly because of this, confidence in our government has reached a low point, and yet again that confidence is being squeezed by the actions of the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The prime minister isn't just any person. He is a public figure employed by, almost owned by, the State. Everything the Prime Minister does and says must be accountable to the people, including his digital communication. That is why there is an obligation to keep records, so that we, as representatives of the people, can check where this is necessary. That's our job. That can only be done if all communication is archived, and let this just not happen. In fact, the Prime Minister personally decides to delete messages to clear the memory. Whether it was important or not, we just can't control it anymore. My filing cabinet is too small, so I don't keep it, the Prime Minister said. If citizens did this with data from the Tax Administration, heaven and earth would be too small. The Prime Minister has taken a stroll with the Archive Act and he has not been interested in making the task of our representatives impossible again. Mr. Chairman. We can capture each other for hours, but the question is: did the Prime Minister just or did not act within the text of the law? Then we will have the debate on the exact technical details. The classic rutte doctrine to beat the debate to death. But we, the House of Representatives of the States-General, have put these laws on paper ourselves and it is up to us to interpret the spirit of the law. I therefore ask the Chamber: has the Prime Minister acted in the spirit of the Open Government Act? Has the Prime Minister acted in the spirit of the Archive Act? Has the Prime Minister acted in the spirit of generally transparent governance? Has the Prime Minister acted in the spirit of government policy? Has the Prime Minister acted in the spirit of the statements of the Council of State? Or has he just acted within the words that are written in black and white, as he proverbibly raises a middle finger to the purpose of these frameworks, and thus a proverbial middle finger to its authors: us? Finally, I would like the specifications of Mr Rutte's telephone bill to be sent to the House of Representatives. Then it is possible to check how many messages he sends per day to the officials of the Ministry of General Affairs. My final question to the Prime Minister: what does the Prime Minister consider to be private? Because we can't control that either. What exactly is private? That's what I'd like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. We can talk in this debate about the capacity of the Nokia 301 and the amount of gigabytes on it, but this debate is not about the Nokia 301; it is about the functioning of democracy and the dysfunction of the Prime Minister who undermines the foundations of that democracy. He knows that erased messages can't be retrieved; so he gives permission to request them. A good diversion. I saw the same calculation when the Prime Minister said that I had not been discussed elsewhere in a post, trusting that the minutes would not be public and the informers would not be accountable. No, erasing the archive is not an incident or a detail. It's the opposite: a pattern, a mode operandi. You make sure there are no minutes or messages. That's why you're going to the Cat House for two years. You make sure that no minutes are made structurally at General Affairs. That's what we heard from the POK. You will wait as long as possible to release information, preferably until a ruler has switched to another department. Look, for example, at how information on the disastrous evacuation from Afghanistan is being trained. And you're covering away as much as we could, so that we could only find out about the memo-Palms by chance, with which we could have solved the suffering of those parents four years earlier. This is ruined. A prime minister, a government, is not above the law and should not violate the Archive Act. The Prime Minister was aware of this after the trial on Mr Polman's text from Unilever. Mr. Chairman. I just have a few questions. How many phones does the Prime Minister have? Who's providing them? How are the messages archived on all these cases? How many messages does he get a day? When was the Prime Minister aware of the forthcoming publication of the Volkskrant? Does the decision to switch phones have to do with that publication? What is the view of the newly appointed Commissioner for Information on this issue? When was the last time the State Information and Heritage Inspectorate checked the archives at General Affairs? What were their findings? Following the letter of 15 January 2021, an action plan should be better archived in the Ministry. Is that being followed? How are the messages, minutes and everything stored on General Affairs? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, this debate is not about solutions for the affected parents in the supplement scandal, who are still waiting for it. It is not about all those people in the Netherlands who cannot pay the bills at the moment. Nor is it about the concern that threatens to defect. To be perfectly honest, that does bother me. I find that rather uncomfortable. At the same time, we certainly need to have this debate here today, because we know since yesterday that the Prime Minister sees not only the truth as an option, but also his own memories and his own involvement in things as an option. That he sees the truth as an option and that the lie doesn't find a problem until it comes true, we've seen it before. That's what we saw at the bombs on Hawija. That's just been mentioned. That's what we saw at the dividend debacle. That's what we've seen in the whole job story elsewhere. This debate we are having today is certainly not about a text message that has been or has not been sent. This debate is really about how much trust people can still have in politics, in this cabinet. This debate is about how seriously the Prime Minister actually takes democratic control. Or does he see it mainly as an annoying interruption to his own work? Mr. Chairman. What might bother me the most is the big contradiction: if ordinary people make a mistake or mischeck or lose a piece, the government intervenes hard. We all know these examples of the surcharge scandal, the most pressing and terrible example. At the same time, you see a Prime Minister who rides through these rules so easily and for which those rules do not seem to apply. I would like to know from the Prime Minister how he feels about that himself. Does he really think that this will contribute to the restoration of trust, if necessary? After all, it was this Prime Minister who spoke such fine words about Rutte IV when he took office; I have said it before; I can't really hear it anymore: the so-called new administrative culture that would come and the radical ideas that were there. And what do we see? We're just standing here again today. It is yet another debate that we are having about openness, which is therefore not in this cabinet, with this Prime Minister, about his actions. Everyone feels like... before we heard about "no active memories." Yesterday, we were reading about this again. What was it? Real-time archiving. I'm sure there'll be more fine words to ride through those rules, but that's not the point. That's not how we're supposed to do it here. It's about being honest. It is about how seriously you take the democratic control that a parliament should also be able to exercise. 'Cause, Mr. Chairman, we don't have laws for nothing. Those laws are there to serve our common interest. I would also like to know from the Prime Minister whether he thinks he has served the general interest. Take, for example, the 1995 Archive Act, but of course also the Open Government Act, the successor of the Wob. Those laws are there to ensure that the information is handled carefully, because it is in our general interest and that information is not of power or of an individual person, but of all of us and should be in the general interest. So I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether he himself believes that he has acted according to the spirit and letter of that law. I would also like to know from him how he really looks at this democratic control. Finally, Mr President, perhaps the following, because, as far as I am concerned, that affects credibility. It's a lot about text messages and whether or not they've been forwarded. Of that, I find it very difficult to imagine how that works in practice. Well, I also understood that there are longer texts. They would not be forwarded, but then there would be a call and then they would be read out. I wonder: how am I supposed to see that and how is it that the Prime Minister apparently has time to do all that? How many calls like that happened? And is that really the way we should do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	Madam President. Mr Rutte is a kind of political Bermuda Triangle: everything he does not like disappears and is impossible to find out at once. The pattern of the Prime Minister's actions has been crystal clear for years. If he doesn't want the truth to come out, then he, as with the "Overcoming: Function elsewhere," or lying glass hard, or withholding information, or knowingly not taking notes according to his own Ruttedoctrine, or claiming to have no active memory of anything. All this is aimed at withholding information, putting it under the carpet, lurking around us, avoiding transparency and obstructing control over power. Mr. Chairman. We have a hunter as prime minister, but now he's really pulling the strings. For years he's erased texts, so he's destroyed them, supposedly because he doesn't like smartphones. That's why, he says, he had an old Nokia phone that couldn't handle all those messages. First there was the excuse that only twenty messages would fit, when the phone would become slow after a while with all those messages, and then there would be too many messages on the screen at once. Every time I ask myself, does the Prime Minister think we're crazy? Does he think we believe all this crap? I say to my roommates: how come you let him get away with it every time, for years, and he still has a hundred incidents? Today we can discuss and interrupt again all day about the importance of the constitutional duty of information to the Chamber, about whether or not to violate the Archive Act and about the new administrative culture of openness and transparency, which, of course, will never come with Prime Minister Rutte, but what will we get out of it? What good will it do if he keeps getting away with everything, every time, and if you, members of the Chamber and above all the coalition, let him sit every time, in the next incident, repeat this whole circus of anger, clarity and debates and make no consequences? Mr. Chairman. We shouldn't be fooled anymore. What the Prime Minister has done is wrong, no matter what he says. Because of Rutte's behavior, no one knows what messages he deleted from his phone and which messages he didn't. He's made it impossible to check what important messages he's been deleting for years. And now the texts can't be traced at once. The messages that are still in existence are partly incomplete, because they are, or are, as he writes in his letter, paraphrased, or on main lines. How do you make it up? The Prime Minister himself knows very well that he is wrong and that he has indeed deleted important messages, because he is immediately covering himself up again. Yesterday at the fast-released press release, he himself indicated that the content of the message was probably deleted, because, as he said, mistakes are always made. What a sneak. So the real question is, who's gonna believe this guy? Who trusts him anymore? I tell you, at least a majority of Dutch people do not. The Netherlands has a prime minister who does not deserve to be Prime Minister of this country, not for a long time. The man has been doing everything he can to keep our information from us for years and has no trouble at all lying. And we're sick of that behavior. We're fed up with his bullshit, lies, excuses and excuses. We're not just talking about these stupid texts, we're talking about a pattern of chasing and cheating for years. I see the Prime Minister standing here at the end of the debate after my motion of censure was rejected but the motion of censure was adopted on 1 April. Then I asked him, "Why don't you quit, Mr. Rutte?" He said, "Mr. Wilders, I'm gonna do my stinking best to restore confidence." We are now more than a year later, and I say to the Prime Minister that your intention has not only failed fatally, trust has only become worse and less. It's time to draw your conclusions, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then we go to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. "Rutt himself which texts were worth archiving." Erik Verwiel, the Wob specialist of the Volkskrant who exposed the Prime Minister's method of working. But no man believes the Prime Minister when he says that he has only deleted unimportant messages. According to law, providers have to keep records of text messages for 12 months, but yesterday's letter states that none of this is true. I'd like to hear exactly what's going on here. That the historian Rutte is not a reliable archivist, we already knew in 2018. The text to Unilevertopman Paul Polman about the dividend tax was erased. There were billions involved in this network corruption and it shows that not only insignificant texts are deleted. It is part of a method that even bears the name of the Prime Minister: the Ruttedoctrine. No active reminder, incorrect and incomplete information to the Chamber and deletion of text messages for 12 years. Whether it was about civilian casualties in Iraq, about Omtzigt function elsewhere, about support for Syrian rebels or about the childcare allowance, the Chamber got sand in the eyes and the Prime Minister cycled on texting and laughing. Rutte is the first Dutch prime minister to rule by text message, wrote Vrij Nederland already in 2015. And nothing's changed except that the texts have disappeared. According to the Council of State, text messages are covered by the Archive Act and messages must be kept, arranged by department and subject. How then is it that the Prime Minister himself decides what can and cannot be preserved? Hasn't there ever been an official who said, "Hey, what few texts does the Prime Minister send us for archiving?" Is the call-through of important text messages in line with the legislation as it is intended? I'll give you the answer myself. No, our Prime Minister has not complied with the law and can be added to the illustrious list of Nixon, Sarkozy, Zuma and Berlusconi. The carefully conceived image of an old Nokia and an old Saab, which made the Prime Minister of the Netherlands look so delicious, is now being exposed. We're dealing with a man who feels for the umpteenth time that the law applies to everyone except him. This text message-gate shows that parliamentary control has become a farce. This must stop for the sake of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then we'll go to Mr. Bontenbal, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands must abide by the rules, from young to old, from small to large, and therefore also the Prime Minister. He also has an exemplary role. Two laws ensure that the government and its servants properly store information about decision-making, namely the Archive Act and the Open Government Act. These laws are designed to enable elected representatives and citizens to control governance and policies. This debate focuses on whether the Prime Minister should have deleted text messages on his phone. The Prime Minister has given his explanation, but the CDA Group still has a number of questions. The first question, of course, is: has the Prime Minister not only complied with the letter of the law, but also acted in accordance with the spirit of the law? The Open Government Act states in Article 2.4: "A management body shall ensure that it is in good, orderly and accessible condition for the documents it receives, manufactures or otherwise holds." How these documents are stored, including text messages, is not so much relevant, but that they are stored somewhere and that they are arranged and accessible. Is that what happens when the Prime Minister sends his text messages to his officials every day? In his oral response, the Prime Minister said that he had never deliberately withheld important matters. That too is not really relevant, because you can also subconsciously withhold important things. And even then, as Prime Minister, you're breaking the law. Can the Prime Minister indicate how many text messages he sent? Is that 20 a day? And why hasn't he ever considered doing that differently than in this cumbersome way? Has he never been advised by his chief information officer in the past year to organise this differently? Did he get permission to do it like this? There are also questions to ask when selecting messages. The Open Government Act deals with documents, including those text messages, which relate to the public task, policy and management of the administrative body. Isn't the Prime Minister making himself vulnerable by being the one to judge whether or not to file messages? Shouldn't the principle of "not removing doubt" apply here too, or the principle of "preserving too much rather than too little"? Shouldn't the weighting or a message be with someone other than the Prime Minister? In 2019, the Council of State already ruled that text messages and WhatsApp messages qualify as documents that need to be archived. What has the Prime Minister done since then to comply with this ruling? Why didn't he just buy another phone right away? Why didn't he immediately agree on a method that doesn't make him vulnerable? Mr. Chairman. The most important question perhaps should be today: does the Prime Minister not think that he has an exemplary role in this, including to all other government officials? What conclusion does the Prime Minister himself draw from all the questions that are being asked to him today? What else is he gonna do in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Bontenbal's last sentence has just been mentioned: what else is the Minister going to do? Does he mean the Prime Minister really has to do something else? I didn't understand him for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	I see what you're trying to do. As I said at the beginning, the Prime Minister has to abide by the rules and he has an exemplary role to play. I have asked a lot of questions about this. I think it is good practice in this Chamber to ask a number of questions first and then wait for the Prime Minister's answers. That's what I'm gonna do. I have said that I think it is important that this Prime Minister should have an exemplary role.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Oh, yeah. Maybe it was a little faint. When Mr Bontenbal said "what else is the Prime Minister going to do?', I thought he meant, "Is he gonna do something else?" Is he gonna quit the Prime Minister's office? But he just meant, is he gonna change his behavior? That was the confusion. I think it's a good story. I know Mr Bontenbal as a very good spokesman climate. It's a good thing he's making this contribution, too. At the beginning, he himself says that we have agreed rules on how to organize information and how to store it. Now it is true that the Prime Minister, on the one hand, has certainly not filed a lot of things, has not recorded them. The second is that he himself decided which part he had to capture and which part he didn't. The third is that he sometimes did so in a way, when the message was longer than 160 characters, when he paraphrased it. He basically told me what the content was. If we have established that, is this still in line with Mr Bontenbal's guidelines with the demands we have made with each other to monitor as a parliament what the Prime Minister is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	In my speech, I distinguished between the letter of the law and the spirit of the law. The fact that the Prime Minister used a phone from the last century is not against the letter of the law. He could even put the text messages with his phone on the copier, which could print and then archive. I think you'll still keep the relevant documents. It is also about the spirit of the law, that it must be well organized and searchable. That's what my questions are about. Has the Prime Minister kept to the spirit so that this is properly archived? Doesn't he have an example in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	I can't get an answer to my question. Mr Bontenbal tells us something else. I understand that line of defense. I'm fine with all of that. I have a very simple question. He himself states that the Prime Minister is responsible for ensuring that everything is recorded in an orderly manner and that it is searchable. That is because it is our job, including Mr Bontenbal's, to monitor this. That is because journalists have access to and can check what is happening there. It's quite a thing the Prime Minister can do on behalf of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	And your specific question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	My specific question is: we have established that the Prime Minister has not recorded a lot of texts. We don't know how much. That question has been asked. It could be tens of thousands. That's what he's been doing all day. We have also established that he himself determined which part of it he recorded and we have established that he sometimes called it or paraphrased it. That's what he himself stated in the letter. It is not so much a question to the Prime Minister but to Mr Bontenbal. Does that satisfy the demands we have made with each other, in the eyes of Mr Bontenbal of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think you're asking the wrong question. I just asked a lot of questions to the Prime Minister. I think you should ask the Prime Minister these questions. I await the answers to the questions I have asked myself. That's what this is all about. I would also like to point out that, if I understand the law correctly, it is not about preserving everything. A selection is taking place somewhere. I asked if it wouldn't be vulnerable if the Prime Minister himself made that selection. So I would also like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	No, we're doing interruptions in threes at the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	I don't think anyone in the Netherlands believes anything about this whole texting story: a Nokia who can only save twenty texts and that sort of thing. I have come to know Mr Bontenbal in the past year as a very honest man. My simple question is: does he believe this himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	I don't have all the information either, so I just want to know exactly what happened. How did that happen? Has the Prime Minister sent any relevant text message every day and have these texts been archived? I don't know. I'm asking that question here. But I do not condemn the Prime Minister immediately at the beginning of the debate. I think it is a good use that we ask the critical questions in the first period; we all do that. I did, too. I've asked a lot of questions. I'll wait and see what the Prime Minister's answers are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Bontenbal is asking questions, such as: did the Prime Minister not listen to his chief information officer and this and that. Surely it is clear to the whole of the Netherlands what is happening here? These apps, these texts have been deliberately deleted so they couldn't be found. This is a very logical, crystal clear story, isn't it? There hasn't been any chief information officer involved, has there? Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	I really think it is a good practice to ask questions like this with each other in the first period and only then to assess what I think of those answers. Apparently, you've already drawn your conclusions. I don't want to be a politician in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Bontenbal, I'd like to ask you to speak through the chairman. So don't mess with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	We hear many fine words from the coalition and the cabinet about the need to restore confidence in politics. I would like to believe that these are mean words, but, frankly, I find that difficult. Now my question to the spokesman for the CDA Group is: has there been any contact between the Ministry of General Affairs and a coalition group, such as the CDA, during the period prior to yesterday's settlement of proceedings, in which the debate was requested, and today's debate? And has there been any contact between the coalition groups, about what position each group would take individually in supporting the debate or at the beginning of today's debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	The simple answer is this is none of your business. Members of parliament have a lot of contacts with each other. I'm in contact with a lot of colleagues. I'm texting a lot of colleagues. I'm appending, by the way. I think it is a very good use that we keep it to ourselves and to ourselves. But I haven't had extensive contact with the Ministry of General Affairs, if you'd like to know. I didn't share my input either. I kept my own story here on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's a meaningless answer that says everything at the same time. I would remind Mr Bontenbal of the following folk wisdom: what you deal with is contaminated. I'm drawing my conclusions based on the answer I'm getting here. That answer was: "No extensive contact with the Ministry of General Affairs." But I didn't ask. I asked, "Had there been contact?" Apparently that's none of my business. So much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	This is, of course, the culture that we now know a little bit about in the Chamber. Where there's smoke, there's fire. You'll be infected right away. I don't think we should hang out like this in this house. I think I'm trying to do my job with integrity, and I'm assuming you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mrs. Ouwehand? Okay. I saw Mr Omtzigt rise a little earlier. No? Mrs. Van der Plas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	I heard Mr Bontenbal say that everyone must abide by the rules, including the Prime Minister. In fact, his last question was: what else is the Prime Minister going to do? Here's what I'm wondering. Is there any such thing in the CDA talks or in the coalition talks; we can just say that when it's just done? Is it ever said: if we get to this point, then we simply have no choice but to pull the plug?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	I'm not in coalition talks all day. This conversation is not taking place. And what discussions we have in the group is something from the group. You do not have to indicate what you are discussing in your group. That's really for ourselves, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Bontenball is here today. In any case, I notice that the entire coalition has not delegated any group chairmen to this debate, which I think is quite common, as far as I have been able to see in the past year. I have always seen the chairmen of the political groups in this kind of big debate where the Prime Minister is being called. With the opposition, I see all the group chairmen sitting here, except for one, but that may have to do with Mr Eerdmans' agenda. Of course, Mr Bontenbal cannot speak for the other coalition partners, but can I ask him why he has been chosen to delegate him to this debate? Not that I have a problem with that, but I'm curious about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	I am simply speaking on behalf of my group, so you have to deal with that. In addition, a major debate on digital matters was planned today, which I would have liked to have participated in, and I think a number of other colleagues too. We have thought: that debate will expire, so I can take this over. I'm also doing the file on digital cases. That's how it happened. You don't have to look for a lot of other things. But I will tell you straight away: I would have preferred to have a big debate here on digital matters, because there are many important issues that need to be discussed in this context. Now we are in this house again very much with ourselves and with texts. I didn't go into politics for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	Of course, it is a bit ridiculous to say here that this is a debate on digital matters. I'm sorry! This is a debate about trust and integrity and about the confidence that citizens have in politics. That has nothing to do with digital matters. Yeah, there just happened to be a phone involved. Ha ha! That is not what this debate is about at all. Mr Bontenbal says: we are going to talk about ourselves again. I have said before: I simply do not understand why Members of Parliament dare to say that. We are not talking about ourselves here, we are talking about citizens whose trust is simply shamed over and over again. I would like to ask the coalition, in this case Mr Bontenbal, if that is taken seriously at some point, rather than saying that we are talking a little about ourselves here. No, we're not talking about ourselves here. We are talking about the Netherlands, about the Dutch citizens who choose us and pay us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	I take that very seriously. I have prepared myself well for this debate and asked a number of critical questions. I think that is why I take my role as a Member of Parliament, as the government's auditor, extremely seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you. We're going to see Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Bontenbal asked the Prime Minister whether he had complied with the law. Usually when I ask someone that question, the answer is yes. Is Mr Bontenbal of the CDA Group, at the end of this debate, prepared to draw his own conclusions as to whether the Prime Minister complied with the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yeah, I think so. We'll just have to wait and see what the answers are. If I'm reading everything now, I think you can say "but I still have to get a lot of answers "that the letter of the law has been acted upon. But of course my point has always been: has the Prime Minister, who has an exemplary role, also acted in accordance with the spirit of the law? In 2019 there was a ruling from the Council of State. My question to the Prime Minister is what he has done since then to do something with that statement and also to take up the role of example in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	One of the nuclear things that seems to be a small thing, but that's not exactly what the Prime Minister is saying: if the texts were too long to send, I would read them out and they would be written down somewhere. You really need to explain to your kids that that used to be a problem, but it was then. In order to see if that works, we should see some of those saved text messages. Will Mr Bontenbal, like me, ask the Prime Minister: send some of those notes that have been made, and tell us whether those notes are also covered by the Wob? The vileine is that if a journalist or someone else wants to know if there has been a text-contact, those texts in the Prime Minister's phone will no longer be there. The fact that they are read and recorded does not appear on Wob requests. Does he share the view that we should read some of them and does he want to pass them on? In addition, the question of whether they were subsequently made available to the officials responsible for assessing the Wob requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	The most important point in my contribution has been that everyone has to abide by the rules. The Prime Minister has an exemplary role and should not, I think, make himself vulnerable by making that selection himself. I ask the Prime Minister to reflect on this: is he not too vulnerable by making that selection himself? That is why we are having this debate and that is why Mr Omtzig is asking me this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	It is true that this selection is important. After that, we'll never be able to check that selection again, except because we can see the accounts. On the old-fashioned accounts, if you have an old-fashioned device, I'm sure you'll also get an old-fashioned account. You got these very long bills. If we had that, we'd have a really good idea if Mr. Polman texted or if you had a text or if I did. The latter is already a few months ago; but well, we could then find it. So we could ask for those accounts, and I hope you will pass them on to me and the texts that have been written. We just want to see each other, don't we? We want to see texts written and paraphrased, don't we? Are you interested in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	No. What I am particularly interested in is the question on the basis of which the Prime Minister himself makes the selection, and whether he does not think that, precisely because of his role as an example, he makes himself vulnerable by doing that selection himself. However, one of the points in the directive is that in the implementation of that law, public servants, the Prime Minister, other ministers, must also judge how they make that selection. That's part of it. If I understand the law correctly, it is not the intention of the law that everything is actually stored. Even then you can't search everything properly, properly. So the idea isn't that everything is stored. A selection must be made. That selection shall be made by the government servants themselves. Then I say: the Prime Minister has an exemplary role; does he not make himself vulnerable by making that selection himself? How's he gonna change that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	I would like to move on to the last thing Mr Bontenbal says, the question of whether the Prime Minister is indeed making himself vulnerable. We are, of course, talking about parliamentary control of our Prime Minister. It is hardly being carried out properly at the moment. We feel that the Prime Minister is taking a walk with the rule of law, by not informing the Chamber properly, by going to the Catshuis so that he does not have to make minutes and by making his own archiving of his texts, if there is archiving. So there's definitely that vulnerability. Does Mr Bontenbal therefore agree with me that we need to set it up in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	I have, of course, also read several articles in preparation for this debate in which this point is made and the question is asked: is there not too much grey area? I think that should be part of the debate. I am also really curious how the Prime Minister himself reflects in this grey area. There is also the point of whether you act according to the letter of the law or the spirit of the law. I think there's some room in there. As I have just said, I repeat myself, I find it vulnerable that the Prime Minister himself makes that selection. So I think it would be wise to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	Does Mr Bontenbal agree with me that we should organise this in a different way? Maybe we can change some things here today, too. In Norway, for example, you have a very easy system. That's where the phones of the different rulers are read out every week. It is neatly archived, and that is not a burden on the rulers themselves. That's very well done. Does Mr Bontenbal agree with me that we should implement this here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	I do not think that is a bad idea at all, but I would like to make the following comment. We can, of course, regulate everything in detail here, but there is also something like just moral action and virtue. In the end, you can't write down everything in laws and rules. Eventually there is also something of virtue and moral action among the rulers themselves. I don't know if you should have the illusion that you can close it all down in detail. After all, at some point you can stop tapping and texting and then just do everything with the phone. There is my struggle, as I say to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you. Then we'll go to... Who jumped first? Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	I would like to ask what Mr Bontenbal just said, namely that moral action is so important. I think he's absolutely right about that, but isn't that the problem here? Isn't the problem that trust in this cabinet is historically low, precisely because of the moral act, whether it is about the supplement scandal, or "function elsewhere"? We have had all the examples here so many times and now we are here again, indeed to everyone's frustration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	The frustration about us standing here again, I share. We're just talking about whether it went well with those text messages. That's what it should be about. If that didn't go well, then you have to have the conversation about whether it's a pattern or yes or no. I think that is what the discussion is about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	No, as far as I'm concerned, that's not what the discussion is about. If you have listened to the input of many other groups here, then you know that the debate is not about this either. Many spokesmen have indicated that it is not about a text message that has or has not been sent. It's all about that pattern. There is indeed great frustration and irritation that we are standing here again. We're not here for fun. We're not here because we want to be busy with ourselves. We are standing here because we have yet another case where it is debatable whether this Prime Minister and this cabinet are giving enough openness and whether they are taking democratic control seriously enough. Do you recognize it's a pattern?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	I would point out to Mrs Marijnissen and other colleagues that they have already drawn their conclusions. I'm just waiting for the first term. We're gonna talk to the Prime Minister. In my speech I asked a number of critical questions, and I expect an answer to that, but I have not drawn all my conclusions now. You seem to be doing that, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	I regret how coalition parties think this debate is coming through. In this case it is Mr Bontenbal, so I will stick with him. He uses the first term by saying: well, I have asked questions, so I do not go into the questions of other groups, because I want to wait and see the answers first. In the second term, we will not see it again, or then there will be a motion yes or no. We in the House of Representatives are here today to have this debate, aren't we? You yourself speak great words: it is about morality and behavior. You even took "good" in the mouth. I agree with you. Then it is a very fair question whether you acknowledge that there is a pattern here, and I would like an answer from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	I wouldn't say that right now. I'd like to start the discussion with the Prime Minister first. I have also raised many critical questions in my speech. I think we should wait for the answers and then we'll talk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mrs Ouwehand, I give you the opportunity to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	Fortunately, Mrs Marijnissen has already asked the question. We jumped on at the same time. So I can save another question for the other coalition parties. It's all very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Look. Thank you. I have asked Members to be a little reluctant to ask each other questions, so that we have a little more room for questions to the Prime Minister. I therefore appeal to you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. This debate may feel a little uncomfortable, but it is crucial, because it is not about something small like a text message. It's about the control society can expect to see if it's true what's happening here. It is about the control that our Parliament must be able to exercise. The point is that if it does not go well, as with the supplementing affair, you can intervene in good time, because you have the right information. It should not be the case that data is muffled away, dozed away, or looked away. The point is that you can control, adjust and learn, even in a crisis. Take an evacuation or a corona crisis. It is important that you can adjust and evaluate and learn lessons. That can only be done with sincere, correct information. If that is missing, then something goes wrong in our democracy, in policy, in law and regulation. That's why I want to know about the Prime Minister. The rules are clear, because there is a very clear statement from the Council of State of 2019. Yet it turned out that Unilever's top man sent a text message that disappeared. That didn't turn out right. The Prime Minister knew that in 2019. What concrete action has been taken to improve the preservation of text messages? In November 2020, I heard the Prime Minister about his role in the premium affair. At the same time, we found that too much was happening orally. There was no good archive and text messages were not properly saved. CDA member Chris van Dam also referred to this in his report. What lessons has the Prime Minister learned from this report? How does he keep his texts better since then? I would also like to know from the archivist Rutte what criteria he applies. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the oral transmission of long messages is not in line with the directives, that it is in breach of the law and that we have known that since 2019? Mr. Chairman. In the debates on the oral mask affair, telephone messages also played a major role. The same applies to the debate on the evacuation from Afghanistan. What steps has the Prime Minister taken since then to ensure that this is done better? During the interviews on the premium affair, the Prime Minister under oath, when I asked him why so little was recorded by AZ: we do not all have the time to put it on paper properly. But today it turns out that the prime minister has a day's mission to remove text messages. How credible is this statement? Why would the main driver of this country spend all day reading, judging, deleting and archiving messages? How is it that the Prime Minister still has time for this, in addition to his important role as the top boss of this country? How can it be, I ask him, that there is no relevant information in all the documents received on Afghanistan and on the corona crisis? "It's okay," "it's okay" and "toitoi," but no relevant information. How credible is that? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It seems that the Prime Minister's phone memory is being used as selectively as the Prime Minister's own memory. This would damage the democratic rule of law. It damages confidence in politics. It's unnecessary, it's not allowed and it's not supposed to. I wish things were different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, Prime Minister Rutte's statements about his texts began to sound more and more like excuses. Prime Minister Rutte wiped texts from his phone every day. The Prime Minister indicated that his Nokia became extremely slow if there were too many of those messages on it. Only the reports that the Prime Minister himself considered relevant, he passed on to his officials. What were the Prime Minister's criteria for a relevant or irrelevant text message? Can the Prime Minister tell us more about that? Fortunately, last Thursday, the Prime Minister finally bought a new smartphone. That's great news. It was high time for the Prime Minister to start digitizing as well. In his coalition agreement of 15 December last year, the word "digitalization" appears nine times, but he himself held off a modern phone call for years. This is perhaps a significant example of Rutte IV's modernisation drive. Two important texts were missing according to the media. One of them, from 1 June 2020, was a text message to the Amsterdam mayor Halsema, about the corona demonstration. Another text was from Paul Polman, former top man of Unilever at the time of the abolition of the dividend tax. So there are also gaps, pieces that are gone. Can the Prime Minister tell us how these very relevant texts were ever removed? Was he in the process of erasing history? And that for a historian. The Prime Minister also claims that he has never broken the Archive Act. The 1995 Act provides for public archives to be made public to citizens over time. The prime minister is governed by public bodies as a legal entity. In accordance with Article 3 of the Act, they must ensure that records are kept in good, orderly and accessible condition. Mr. Chairman. It's obvious that caring didn't happen. My question to the Prime Minister is: how did this happen and how does he intend to do this differently from now on? In addition to the Archive Act, the Prime Minister may have also violated the Open Government Act. The Woo only entered into force on 1 May of this year and replaced the well-known Wob. In accordance with Article 2 (4) of the Woo, the Prime Minister must ensure that the documents he receives, manufactures or otherwise holds are in good, orderly and accessible condition. Thus, the Woo does not allow the deletion of work-related text messages. Yet the Prime Minister systematically deleted text messages when it suits him. According to the Prime Minister, only the Ministry of General Affairs has those messages. Is the Prime Minister prepared to publish all texts in accordance with Article 2 (4) of the Woo? Mr. Chairman. I want to finish. We live in a time when trust between politicians and citizens is clearly falling. Let me say first of all that this texting affair is by no means conducive to restoring that confidence. The law applies to everyone. Every citizen, every taxpayer, every traffic participant knows that. Everyone knows. So this law also applies to our Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	Madam President. Times change; sometimes you have to take a whole new step. My contribution to this debate today is a special one: it is a reconstructed report of a conversation between myself and my wife Marlies. It's coming up next. Marlies really couldn't speak of it, was truly surprised. She had followed the news: hunger in Africa, war in Ukraine, young people waiting endlessly for youth care, supplemental affair. "And you're putting everything aside to have a debate on Rutte's texts? You've got to be kidding me!" I was not in the debate yesterday, I tried; I just stayed in the debate on youth care. But I didn't get away with that. "But you're gonna be in the debate, right?" I couldn't deny that. But, honey, I said, sometimes it's not that crazy to discuss the point that is solid in the news, so that you can just clear the point, otherwise it just lingers and perverts, and that's not right. And I continued: I agree with you that other topics are much bigger, and you must be careful that such a debate does not get nails on low water. But behind that erasing of those texts are serious questions, such as: what degree of openness can you expect from drivers? What room is there for confidentiality? And how do drivers treat this tension with integrity and professionalism? Times change, so those questions keep coming back with other techniques and stuff. I understand that, Marlies said, but if you're talking about trust in politics and government in The Hague, it's okay to ask critical questions, but don't assume that the other person is cheating, otherwise you're just feeding the mistrust. And, continued Marlies, then clear up how you want to deal with it in the future and don't continue to pry endlessly in the past, like that man with the curly nut does quite often. Jesse Klaver? I helped her. Kees, she said, as I sometimes say in a fight between us: within ten minutes, both of you can clear the air, but then don't keep talking, otherwise you'll only make it worse. Good point, I responded, it won't be me. The key question that I will put to Prime Minister Rutte is: has this whole discussion been properly guaranteed that the decision-making process can be well documented and monitored? And our conversation ended this way: by the way, Marlies, did you know Mark Rutte finally traded his Nokia for an iPhone? Times change. On the group they said: this Nokia belongs of course in the National Historical Museum. Good point, perhaps, for a motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	I hope she's on the list next time! For these are wise words. My question is about looking to the future, because I like it. I've been thinking about that, too. My view is that the rules in the directive, which make the ruler alone and independently responsible for judging whether something should be preserved or not, are too vulnerable. Mr Van der Staaij says: I am looking forward. What does he see when he looks forward? How would he want to improve those rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	First of all, Marlies on the list of candidates isn't gonna work. Maybe this little insight also provides insight into the reason why not, namely that she doesn't really feel her passion lie in politics. As far as looking ahead is concerned, I think you should talk about what dilemmas you are facing and how things can be improved on a number of issues, such as integrity. The statement made by the Council of State a few years ago was a bit of a surprise for many, I think, that personal texts and apps are also included. But the reasoning was: certainly with WhatsApp, complete documents are sometimes sent along with them and it is good that they are also covered by the public domain. There's been quite a handout. I also saw a whole hand-out at the city halls. I think it has been quite a step forward. Today, too, we have been asked to take a good look at that. As far as I am concerned, this is a calm process and we do not say that we have to do so in the same way as motions. I would also like to ask: take a good look at that and bring out the experiences of different people, so that you do not put a supervisor next to every professional in the public administration, out of some kind of deep distrust, to see if they are making every step right. There must also be a certain level of basic confidence. But on the other hand, if there's too much vulnerability in it, that's what you just said. Do people have to make the selection themselves? Can't you professionalize it and invest more with others? I think that is such a real point of improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr President. That was a nice intermezzo of the SGP, so that the Prime Minister can feel a bit more relaxed. But that moment will be over from now on, I suggest. The Party for Animals finds it impossible to exist, and I am looking in particular at the coalition parties that we are standing here again. A Prime Minister has been put back in the saddle, yet we know the pattern and we have exchanged views on whether it is a good idea to let someone lead the country that we constantly have to remind him of his responsibility to respect the law and the rule of law, and to take the statements of the Council of State seriously. As a representative of the people, we have an important role to play in the parliamentary system. That only works if we take it seriously. And now, because the Volkskrant found it a little unbelievable that the number of texts after request was so limited, we are back here again. My question to the coalition parties is above all: where will confidence and the restoration of trust come from if you set the bar so low? You say: in the highest body in the government of the Netherlands, namely the position of Prime Minister, we place someone who is fun in the imagery and who is cozy and charming. It's all very nice. That's all of extra value, but of course not if you don't reach that lower limit. It's not snuffing! The Prime Minister of this country must by himself respect the law and, in doubt, sit on the safe side and not go over it. So what are those questions to the Prime Minister? It was asked: "What do you think: did you act in the spirit of the law?" Professors of state law already conclude that they don't, so who do we believe? The coalition parties are demolishing this Chamber. In the supplemental scandal, the most flagrant example of what is happening if you do not take seriously that power also needs to be controlled and that we can adjust if we see that that goes wrong has changed extensively that the Chamber has been reduced to some sort of amateur detective. Always leaning on it to see if you can get relevant information with a great deal of pain and difficulty that is necessary to protect the citizens of this country and to do what they deserve for the citizens of this country. Now we are still in the same situation, while there are very major crises asking for an answer from The Hague. I'm looking at D66, you know, because of the climate crisis. How are you going to solve it if the Netherlands cannot have faith in the government and in the Chamber? People need to change; we need to make major changes. That's only possible if you're pure, if people can trust you to tell the truth. D66 undermines the confidence in the politics and functioning of our democratic system. I really blame them for that. The same applies to the nitrogen crisis. The same applies to the surcharge scandal. The same applies to the need to make society much fairer. You let it all happen that we cannot take the necessary steps. The new governance culture would mean that there was no preconception. I put one question to the CDA, and it is said that we have nothing to do with whether there has been any consultation between the Ministry of General Affairs and the coalition parties, between the coalition parties, prior to this debate. Then we know enough. Mr. Chairman. It's unacceptable. It is unacceptable for the coalition parties and the SGP to insist that the Chamber is working so badly and that, if it is up to them, we let the Prime Minister get away with not respecting what is simply to be expected in his office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. Here we go again; that was my first thought when I read yesterday in the Volkskrant the news about the Prime Minister's texts. Because here we stand, for the umpteenth debate on administrative integrity, on governance culture. I had a similar conversation last night, because I got a lot of messages in the mailbox of people wondering what we are doing here during energy poverty, the climate crisis, rising inflation, housing shortage, a war in Europe. This week, the President of the General Court was here expressing his discomfort at the way in which the cabinet deals with billions. And we're talking about the Nokia of Rutte. To quote Mrs Van der Plas, we are not in a good mood today. Mr. Chairman. Yet it is necessary that we stand here, because in the deepest essence, of course, this is not about those texts or about that Nokia. It is about the democratic uncontrollability of our Prime Minister, about a Prime Minister who decides for himself what is important for our Parliament, the electorate and the journalist, and what is not, about a pattern, about a Prime Minister who, when it comes to transparency, is his own business. The Chamber shall be informed too late, incorrect or incomplete. The Wob gets merrily frustrated. The Catshuis will meet without minutes. Now we add: erasing texts on our own for years. In other words: too often our Prime Minister walks with the rule of law. We can talk here about the letter and the spirit of the law, but I wonder how the Prime Minister actually looks at this fundamentally. My question to him is therefore: does the Prime Minister understand the importance of openness and parliamentary control of his actions? Or does he actually think that this interest is overwhelmed? Does he think that as a parliament we have lost our way of checking? Does he find in the deepest of his fibers that he pays more than sufficient attention to the disclosure and recording of his actions? And if he actually thinks that, uh, that's the feeling that I and many of us have here, uh, isn't it a matter of talking about that instead of doing what he thinks is right? Mr. Chairman. Confidence in politics, but certainly also in the cabinet and the prime minister, is worryingly low. The Prime Minister said yesterday in a response to the news, in summary: boy, trust me now. But does he understand that trust is already very fragile and that his answer is not sufficient either? If a government wants to trust, it must, with the Prime Minister first, also abide by its own rules, as it expects citizens to do. Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister is forced to make many choices on a daily basis. That takes a lot from a human being. Real-time archiving, even if that is an addition to the rutte doctrine, is asking too much of this prime minister. Does the Prime Minister agree with me or does he believe that it is necessary for the butcher to approve his own meat? I'd like a response. At the point of a transparent and open government, we are far behind other countries. That has one advantage, namely that we can learn from them. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to follow Norway's example. That is where ministers' phones are read out every week and the data are archived in the right way. That means: messages about a play with friends are deleted, messages about the dividend tax are archived. Simple and without extra burden on ministers. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are back here today causes a great deal of misunderstanding, because we are not dealing with the major challenges and because administrators of this country seem to have different rules in place. Mr President, through you I ask whether the Prime Minister has a plan for how he will stop this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ellian, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. In a democratic state governed by the rule of law, the government must be accountable for its actions. The explicit objective of the Archive Act is therefore to preserve and make more accessible important public sector information, so that the government is accountable and accountable. But archives are also a vital part of the cultural heritage and history of a nation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	I want you to finish your speech first and then I will give the floor to Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The lack of clarity about the way in which the Prime Minister is archiving text messages is therefore, precisely because of this controllability, not desirable in a democratic rule of law. That is why it is good that this debate could be held quickly here today. Certainly the cabinet and the prime minister as an example for the government can be expected that the archiving is in order. Mr. Chairman. When archiving, choices are made; selection is made. The word "selection" means and assumes that choices must be made. Otherwise, there's nothing to select. It is therefore not the case that all written documents should be kept. This was also confirmed by the Council of State on 21 October 2020. An obligation to keep all text messages........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is an obligation to keep documents related to administrative matters. And yes, since the ruling of the Council of State of 20 March 2019 this includes text and WhatsApp traffic, including that of the Prime Minister. In order to fulfil that obligation, which I have just mentioned, the Prime Minister has used as a guide the hand-holding of chat messages, according to last night's letter of Parliament. It follows from this handiwork that the making of divisions is the practice for the entire government. To this end, the manual also includes a selection scheme. On a number of points, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats needs further clarification. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start with the text from Mayor Halsema of 1 June 2020. What happened to this text? Is this one or isn't it in the archive? And why wasn't this one in the papers requested by the Volkskrant? Mr. Chairman. But this debate isn't just about that one text message. In the explanatory notes in the letter of the Chamber we also read how a distinction is made between archiving short and longer messages. Why is this distinction made? How exactly do those longer messages that are read or paraphrased end up in the archive? What does cc's mean by texting? Text, after all, as far as I know, does not have a cc function. We would like to receive a clear explanation from the Prime Minister in a moment. Finally, Mr President. How does the Prime Minister himself see the future controllability of his texting? What possible improvement and reinforcement does he see for himself? How does he look at the uniformity of archives within the cabinet? On the one hand, we are debating what has happened, but on the other hand, the demand for the future is just as important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy and then by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	Before we get another half an hour of technical questions about apps and storage capacity on phones, I say: I think it is clear to all of the Netherlands what is happening here. So it's not a big riddle. The Prime Minister didn't want to be controllable. He just removed all those apps so they can't be accessed. I think everyone knows this. This is really no secret. The whole of the Netherlands knows this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	And what is your question to Mr Ellian?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	The question for Mr Ellian is: does he believe anything of the Prime Minister's story that his phone can only store twenty apps and all that? That's just a bullshit story, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	I've asked a number of questions. Several colleagues have asked very sharp and sensible questions, including about what has happened and also about the future. Isn't it fitting that I'm going to listen to the Prime Minister's story in a moment? I can already see a number of colleagues shaking no. But then I ask you whether you have to conclude in advance that someone is not credible, without even having bothered to listen to that person's story. I'm gonna listen in a minute. I trust that the Prime Minister will take his responsibility seriously, that he will come forward with a story, with arguments and with reasons why he acted as he did. That's what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	That's not gonna happen. What is going to happen is that we are going to listen for three or four hours to a Prime Minister who once again has lies and excuses to get out of it for the umpteenth time. And after that, the coalition will eventually vote a vote of no confidence. That is the outcome of what is going to happen here today. That's because the VVD, which you're also part of, and the other coalition parties constantly don't want to make a conclusion to everything that happens here all the time. We are dealing with a prime minister who is lying structuralally about everything that is happening in the country. He has put us on the brink of an economic crisis. And in the meantime, you're gonna be okay with it and you're gonna listen to the Prime Minister's answers. He's already given answers in the paper. It's obvious what happened here. How can you defend this yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	I did not become a member of the Lower House of the States-General to like everything. I take my office very seriously and I know that many of you here are doing so, and I take an example of many of you here. So, no, I don't just like everything. But I do think that if you say someone's lying... I've been in a trial years ago when I was a lawyer... I had just started and I got someone who lit up without a lawyer... Very admonishing, the judge looked at me, and afterwards I apologized. When you say someone is a liar, you have to be able to prove that someone is deliberately not speaking the truth. Then you should be able to look into someone's head. Somebody give us an explanation. And indeed, it is clear to me that you are not going to believe the Prime Minister's explanation. That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	Well, one thing is clear: the whole of the Netherlands knows there's a big liar there. We have seen this with "Mr. Omtzigt, function elsewhere." I think you are the only one in the Netherlands who does not believe that, I say through you, Mr President, to my colleague from the VVD, Mr Ellian. That's where the liar is. Colleagues have said it before today: that is a pattern. Nobody here is just about those stupid texts; it's about Prime Minister Rutte's pattern that day in, day out, year in, year in, year in and year in trouble because he doesn't tell the truth, muffles the truth under the carpet and pretends he doesn't have a memory of anything. We have hundreds of examples of that in twelve years. My question, through you, to Mr Ellian is: are you so dependent on that man in front of your seat that you can overlook all this? When will you say: enough is enough, that concrete rot also hits my party, the VVD; Mr Rutte, this is the drop that overflows the bucket, get out of here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	First of all, I consider it a good moment for me to be allowed to have an interruption by Mr Wilders for the first time. And no, I don't consider myself dependent on anyone for my couch. I am here to do my job, and I know that 33 colleagues do. I would also like to point out that on my first day as an installed MP, still in the old building, was the long debate with the Prime Minister. You and several other colleagues have set him on fire. But when someone says "I didn't lie"... he could and should have chosen his words better, sure. That, I believe, was the outcome of that debate. But when someone says "I didn't lie," it's up to you and me to judge that. I believe the Prime Minister when he says, "I didn't lie." Should he have done it differently? Yeah, but I believe him in that. I understand that this Prime Minister has taken off for you by definition. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	But I asked you a question. Again, for me too, it is nice to be in an interrupting debate with you. So at least that feeling is mutual. But I stick with it: this is a pattern and not just now. A majority of people, I have already mentioned it in my own term, nor does the Prime Minister believe when he says: I have not deleted the important messages. That is, Mr. Ellian, because people know what Mr. Rutte has been showing for madness over the past few years, what lies he has shown. His memory that at once was no longer present at the moment that came out of him, texts that disappeared before. And again, it suits him very well that all those texts are no longer available. Let me ask you again: when is it enough for the VVD Group? When do you say: as far as we are concerned, confidence in the Prime Minister has disappeared?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	But that is not what the debate is about for my group today. For us it is a question of what consideration has been made by the Prime Minister in selecting the text messages. You are already assuming it, and several colleagues are doing so: it must not have gone well; the truth must have been covered in the carpet. We haven't even heard the answer yet. We have not even heard whether or not Mrs Halsema's text is in the archives. Maybe it's in there. Perhaps everything that colleagues are asking for is still available. It's appropriate to wait for the answer first, isn't it? No, I'm not going to assume that the Prime Minister is acting in bad faith right out front. And I'm assuming he's giving me answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	I don't believe anything, and with me millions of Dutch people, of the Prime Minister's story. But even if you believe him, is it absolutely unbelievable that the Prime Minister of the Netherlands in New York or anywhere else in the world sits on a chair for an hour to get the dozens of texts he receives every day that are too long to forward, by calling his officials at AZ? That's a totally unbelievable story, isn't it? It is not the mayor of Doetinchem, it is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. What he's saying here is unbelievable. But again, it's not about those stupid texts. I'm fine... and that's my question to you. You're holding a technical story about today's debate. That's your right. But I ask you: do you not see a pattern with the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, who has been lying and cheating on us and the Dutch for years, because his memory no longer suits him? What do you think of that? Why don't you dare? Are you so afraid of him that you don't even want to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	I don't think I'm scared or gullible. When I sit somewhere, I always look where the door is. You know why I do that. But maybe it's good to be clear about that. Because honestly, I'm not ashamed to say, no, I don't see a liar sitting there. I don't see any pathological liar in there either. I can see that things can be different and have to be better. I have some ideas about that myself. I've also heard that other people have ideas about that. But I am still opposed to the idea, again today, that it is by definition wrong how he acts, without having heard what the Prime Minister's considerations are. I'm resisting that. That is an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	We go to Mrs Marijnissen, SP, and then to Mr Van Haga and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	The same question I put to Mr Bontenbal. We can see that the coalition parties here in your first term are asking a lot of questions, but I am particularly curious about a judgment. It is not the case that the Prime Minister has not yet said anything about it. We had a press conference yesterday in which he already answered the questions. And the Prime Minister has sent a letter to us as a Chamber in which he has already responded. So Mr Ellian knows the Prime Minister's answers and should not hide behind them. That is why I ask him again what his verdict is. Does he recognize and acknowledge that there is a pattern of no active memories and the truth under the carpet? Now texts have been erased again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	This question may be asked by several colleagues and I will continue to answer it respectfully, but again, I oppose that "pattern of falsehoods'. Does that mean this Prime Minister is infallible? No. Is he perfect? No, I'm not. I don't know who calls themselves perfect here, but at least I don't. Then about your question about the text messages. The core is, and I know I have a slightly different point of view in that... Even professors on TV say: according to the Archive Act, you have to keep everything. According to the Archive Act, you are even obliged to delete information that is not necessary. I read the letter. I have questions about that. But from my answer, can you still partly distill a judgment? I think it's the right order. You've already made up your mind. That was clear in your first term. I didn't interrupt you, but it's clear that you think there's a liar in there. He's never gonna do it right again. You can find that. That's your right. But it's not the way I stand here as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr Ellian says: you will then have to distill my judgment out of that. Well, no, I'm standing here asking you a question. I do take the trouble to get up and ask you a question. You should have done that to me. You could have done that. I'd have answered it nicely, too. But now I'm here to ask you a question. The problem is that others have already indicated that otherwise everyone already knows exactly what the outcome of this debate will be. There will be cycling through the rules again. There are some nice formulations on it and eventually we all go on again. That is why I am now asking you what your opinion is on what has happened. Do you recognize that there is a pattern?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	I'm repeating myself, but I told you, I don't see a pattern. Can things be better? Yes. Let the Prime Minister answer that. I will stick with it; that includes Mr Bontenbal... Yes, you cannot agree with it, but that is... But let me not react to what I hear from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	Yeah, we're a couple of laymen together, of course. On some subjects we may have independent knowledge. Mr. Ellian is a lawyer, so he'll know something about Justice and Security, and I'm an engineer, so I might know something about the energy transition. But we don't really know anything about texts and the Archive Act. During the corona time, we were constantly beaten up with the experts. The experts would know, and then we'd have to do something. Now we have Mr. Ellian already mentioned it to us, so the professor of Archive Science Charles Jeurgens and the professor of Administrative Law, the well-known Wim Voermans, who say: well sorry, but the Prime Minister has acted contrary to the letter and spirit of the Archive Act and the Open Government Act. So I really wonder: how does Mr Ellian weigh this qualification of the experts, since it is very serious anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	I appreciate this question. That gives me the opportunity to explain the substance of the matter. By the way, I have a great deal of respect for both professors. Allow me, Mr President, to read something. This statement by the Council of State does not mention anyone, not even Mr Voermans. I quote: "The storage of digital mailboxes containing text messages or WhatsApp messages implies the processing or retention of personal data and the requirements of foundation, necessity and proportionality also apply. (...) It follows that the non-preservation of digital mailboxes containing SMS and WhatsApp messages on a private phone is not contrary to, or at least does not have to be, the Archive Act." For this reason, it is too far-reaching to read all of this, but I commend it to my fellow Members, the Council of State, in recital 6.1, says that there is no obligation to preserve everything. I think that is quite essential, because if you assume that there is a duty to keep everything, that will of course change the debate you are having with the Prime Minister. But that duty is not there; it is about how you select and whether that has been done carefully. I also have questions about reading and whether this has gone prudently. Let the Prime Minister explain that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	The fact that the Council of State says that is obvious, but the two professors I just mentioned know that too. It is therefore a question of whether this way of doing things is contrary to the letter and spirit of the law. These professors conclude, also with the knowledge of this statement by the Council of State, that this is not the case. So once again, at least you have to admit that this is a big blemish on this debate? We are all laymen, but these professors indicate: no, considering everything it is contrary to the letter and the spirit of the law; this Prime Minister has not complied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u119	I can't see it's against that, especially the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u120	You explained it to me. Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u121	Is it true that it is Mr Ellian's job to exercise control over what the cabinet does on behalf of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u123	And is it true that we can do that when we have information, including text messages that are important for us to be able to carry out that task?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u124	I don't know. Frankly, I don't need all the texting from the Prime Minister. That depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u125	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u126	Well, not quite finished yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yes, we do. Interrupts in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u128	Sure. We are blaming Mr Ellian for some naivety, and I understand that he himself already has faith in someone who has, of course, lied to the Chamber several times. But that was all before his time, so that's what we've been through here with each other. Some of us, he has been able to find out, indeed, do not believe it anymore. At some point, on the third, fourth or fifth time, it is difficult to bring up this fresh attitude, which Mr Ellian shows here. He thinks you should believe people on their blue eyes and say: I don't want to go ahead... I was just like him, but not anymore. So my question to Mr Ellian is really about what he argues. He says: I don't need all that information. Me neither. The crucial point is: can Mr Ellian do his job here in the Chamber, which he said he would do, if the Prime Minister himself decides what information he will pass through a shredder and what information will not? Can he still be credible in his role? He was elected on behalf of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u129	I think that 100% certainty, with any director, about how that selection is made at the time of storage, does not exist, unless we decide here today, and I am curious to know who is filing that motion, bearing in mind the professors, that everything must be kept. But as long as a selection is made, choices must also be made. Then I have heard several colleagues argue that there may be a vulnerability in the actions of the Prime Minister. Let him answer that. I myself may have a second-term motion, because I do see, precisely in the case of the Prime Minister, that it is better to build in some more safeguards. So I'm not blind to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u130	Then we go to Mr. Clover, GroenLinks, and then Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u131	We see a pattern in this Prime Minister that at crucial moments he lacks memories of notes, memos and now texts. We also see a pattern at the VVD that is said every time that happens: well, that's not how you see it, he's such a nice man. It is also a pattern that coalition parties are going to explain how ministers mean their letters. Again it is explained by the VVD group that he has just acted according to the manual for saving chat messages. Can Mr. Ellian tell me exactly where that manual says that calling an official and telling him what was in a chat message is in accordance with that manual?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u132	That's a fair question from Mr. Klaver. Nobody has to dive out of here for that, right? That is a question that several colleagues have already asked the Prime Minister. I am very curious how that reading went in his work, who saved the message and where that message is. So these are all very legitimate questions. In the second term, however, I am prepared to make a judgment that may not be the most safe method ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u133	We'll see about that. There's gonna be a little more room. But I am asking for this, especially in this period, because I am not going to let it happen to me that I am standing here without reading anything to be able to judge what is happening here. A letter was sent. The Prime Minister has made several statements in the media about how he acted. I hear the VVD saying here: boys, not so firm, calm down, let him answer, because he has just kept to the code that is in here. You were going to defend this code, you were going to defend the Prime Minister and say: there is nothing wrong; he has just worked according to this code; if you want to do otherwise, you have to put forward motions to make it all more extreme. I ask you, where is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u134	It says in the manual that it is up to the person concerned to consider the matter. That's what happened in this case. Maybe that's too vulnerable in the case of the Prime Minister. In some cases, messages have been read. I really respect Mr Klaver, at the moment I have no idea exactly how that went. I want to explain this and I am not the only one who asked for this explanation. If it turns out to be all over the place, we might be having another conversation. Maybe I'm too naive and too fresh. I'll take a look at Mr. Azarkan, but I'm not going to assume that on the front. It's a little faint to turn it around, but the hand-out doesn't say it shouldn't. It's a little lame, but it's the reality. It's about being dealt with in the spirit of what's meant. We need to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u135	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u136	This is exactly what I'm talking about. This is exactly the pattern of the VVD: just keep defending this prime minister. I asked a very simple question. You say that the Prime Minister has complied with this manual. I ask you, where does it say you can quote text messages to officials? I'll give you the answer: nowhere. You know that well, even if you don't answer that. Your line of defense is: yes, but it doesn't say it shouldn't. So this is exactly how the VVD wants to deal with rules. As long as it's not there, as long as it's not exactly described, we'll use all the space there is with all the consequences of that. We do not know exactly what happened with the decision-making around Hawija. We don't know exactly how it went with Bitch's receipts. The most important thing: the surcharge scandal that has arisen and over which the previous cabinet has fallen, we are not going to avoid again because there is simply a lack of transparency. And you keep defending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u137	I don't know if colleagues are going to believe me, but that's up to them. What happened in the supplemental scandal is horrible. The government may have shown itself on its worst side. I'm not here to justify that. And yes, transparency is a cornerstone of democracy, not only for us to carry out our controlling task, but also for the inhabitants of this country, for whom we are here today, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u138	In any case, Mr Ellian is already well-educated in the Ruttiaan debate. The last answer was another good example: to answer an unasked question and to put you morally above the rest. He does this in the direction of Mr Wilders when he makes a caricature of his input, when he draws policy rules into the absurd and so on. I can give you a whole list. But I'm going to ask a question, just from his legal background. In 2019 there was a very clear statement from the Council of State. In 2018 and 2019 we had debates on the dividend tax. There's been a discussion about the Afghanistan affair. There has been a discussion about the premium affair, precisely about the proper retention of data. Shouldn't the Prime Minister have known better in that light that you can't just delete text messages based on your own selection criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u139	Then we'll repeat ourselves. By the way, I did not mean to make a caricature of anyone here. Whoever debates with me more often knows I never do. I take everyone seriously and I try to react seriously. I am here to make my contribution on behalf of 33 other colleagues of the VVD. I insist that the Prime Minister, like other administrators and other people in the government in this country, should be allowed to make a selection. It's just the question of how he did that. Has he done it carefully and has he actually filed? Those are the questions that are relevant to me today. Some say: that is not relevant, because you have to assume that it did not go well. By the way, I don't know what Rutian debate is. I'm just gonna stay close to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u140	This too is a ruttian trick. You're getting better at it. The fact that you do not actually answer my question already indicates that you agree with me. The Prime Minister should have known better by now. No one says you can't select, but the fact that the Prime Minister himself is his own archivist and makes his own selection criteria is weird and unbelievable. That's not right. The Deputy Prime Minister in his cabinet also says: no, I do it differently. Then why is the Prime Minister so different from other rulers? Why do other rules apply to him, when from 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 and also this year we really know how important it is to do that right, to be able to adjust, to check? In short, I know you're from the VVD, I know you want to defend the Prime Minister, but it's not right, and you feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mrs Kuik referred to the word 'credible'. I have heard other colleagues use the word "vulnerability." I think that word fits more when it comes to reading and not having it checked by someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u142	I shall make one more attempt with regard to the moral principles of the VVD. I'm glad they've been repeated for a while. Transparency is the cornerstone of our democracy. Not only because the Chamber must be able to control, but also for society, the citizens for whom we are doing it. We're not gonna get to that. At the moment, the Chamber needs to look into: can you keep 20 texts on the Nokia model that the Prime Minister had? That is what the Chamber is now being reduced to, the digging out of that kind of thing, while there are big problems that we have to solve. But my question is: if the VVD believes that openness, transparency and controllability of power are the cornerstones, why doesn't the VVD judge the Prime Minister's actions? Whether that's been incredibly clumsy or some kind of charm because he still had that Nokia. It's the highest fucking position in the county. Call that a vulnerability!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u143	I may have misunderstood, but I see this room as the highest body in this country, not the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u144	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u145	You just said something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u146	In the county board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mrs Ouwehand also asks for a judgment. I have repeatedly said that transparency is important. It is not certain at all that there would have been no transparency. Is it vulnerable? Could it have been better? Sure. These are all relevant questions that are before us today. But Mrs Ouwehand also immediately assumes that there has been wrongdoing. That is a judgment and a conclusion that I do not wish to draw here at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u148	That wasn't my question. My question was: whatever the reasons might be... The VVD does not want to recognize a pattern, does not want to understand why the confidence of citizens in politics is so low, does not want to understand why parties here see a repetition of behavior that does not fit this office. It is true that the House of Representatives is the highest body. In the government, the Prime Minister has the highest hat on. But the fundamental question is, of course, if you want to be the Prime Minister, and if you want to deliver the Prime Minister as a party, then this is just part of it. You want power, and in our society, in our parliamentary democracy, it comes with ensuring that you can be properly controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u149	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u150	And that's not what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u151	Your specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u152	What conclusion does the VVD draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u153	I believe that this question has already been asked several times to Mr Ellian. I appeal to you. We have a 4:00 deadline. If we get repeats, we won't be able to save that deadline. So I'm gonna give you a chance to ask one more question. Then Mr Azarkan and then we go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u154	It comes down to the question of whether the VVD wants to be honest about that. Does she think it's part of this, that power needs to be controlled properly, and if you have that power, that you have the greatest responsibility in it? Or does the VVD actually say: we say that for the stage, but we are just talking about maintaining power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u155	No. Let me speak for myself, but I think I can also speak on behalf of my colleagues. We're here to solve problems for people in this country. I don't like to speak in terms of power at all. Yes, the Prime Minister's office is a power function. And yes, that function needs to be properly controlled. There are several colleagues here that I can take as an example, who do so in a very careful and prudent way. That's what you should expect from the VVD. It's not about power. The point is that we stand there to solve problems in the country and, of course, to control the executive and the government. That's what I do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u156	Thank you. Mr Azarkan, a very brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u157	In my interrupting debate just now, we had found that it was up to Mr Ellian and me to oversee what the cabinet, including the Prime Minister, is doing. We have also established that we need to be able to do so by getting information that we can rely on. Now my question to Mr Ellian is: can we rightly carry out our function of controlling power when the person we control decides which information is shared and which is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u158	That's what we just discussed. That's a vulnerability that's in that entire hand-out. This is not only true for the Prime Minister. By the way, the mayor of Doetinchem just fell; that also seems to me a good job. This vulnerability applies to all drivers. The question is, how do you deal with that? Is it not better to build in additional control, for example in a case such as that of the Prime Minister with his own governing body? It could be. I'm willing to consider that. I didn't say I was blind to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u159	You have indeed already answered that question. Then I'd like to thank you. Oh no, only Mr Omtzigt had not yet asked a question. And then we go to Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u160	I have a question for Mr Ellian. He has indeed read himself very well. There are selection lists. The generic selection list of the Ministry of General Affairs, version 7 December 2019, is therefore after that ruling. "Categorie 2, making, explaining and promoting policies. Remarks. Examples of processes covered are: policy notes, notes, explorations, reports, opinions, strategy plans, multi-annual programmes, vision documents, audit room surveys, annual reports and reports of actions." The rating of all 10 document categories is: save. Has Mr. Ellian seen here somewhere that you can read this one too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u161	To be honest, what Mr. Omtzig is now quoting is not to listen to the word "read aloud." Again, I have questions about that, too. Yeah, that reading, of course, freaks me out, too. After reading it, of course, it is about how the original text was then saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u162	Okay, so we're gonna ask the Prime Minister to give us some examples of how that was stored and whether that's gonna be available after that. The selection lists of the Ministry of General Affairs were drawn up in 2007 and published in 2020. That's strange, too. Anyway, I need to understand that one more time. But it is not for nothing that these selection lists contain the "save" rating. So it doesn't say V 20, 20 years of storage, it doesn't say V 7, seven years of storage, but it says "storage." That basically means saving for eternity. The Ministry of General Affairs is a very important department in this country. It coordinates all the policies. I would just like to mention that the D66 colleagues wanted to see how the police actions happened. That was 80 years ago. It's nice that the Prime Minister's archive of 80 years ago is still there, so we know what Beel did. That's important. You don't do that reading. So, Mr. Ellian, you think the Prime Minister should stick to the Archive Decision and these generic selection lists? Do you also think that someone should check that he has complied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u163	By the way, the old so-called PST lists were published in the Official Journal in 2009. I'll mention the number for you later. Those selection lists are, of course, essential. The question you are asking is justified. I am repeating myself, but is it not wise, as I have just tried to explain, in the case of the Prime Minister's office, that this can also apply to others, as I have just tried to explain, that a check is being carried out and that the extra assurance is being built in that what you need to keep is actually being kept? I may not have said that clearly enough, but that is important, especially with regard to those selection lists and other tools, such as hand-outs, to make those choices. So yes, some control might be wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u165	Maybe I should turn the question around. We've had an Archive Act here for a long time. We've had prime ministers for over 200 years since the French wars. Does Mr. Ellian know among all those prime ministers, Beel, Lubbers, Kok, Drees, or pre-war prime ministers, Ruijs de Beerenbrouck, or do I know who, one example of a prime minister who had a pile of papers somewhere that we know he dropped in a trash can, or a paper shredder, perhaps a mechanical paper shredder back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u166	I know that example. As the President knows, I have worked for the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra. I'm familiar with the example of "shredder" which is also public "shredder" of a letter that went into the shredder. That was in 1998. Can we do something with that now? I don't think so. The point is: I expect the Prime Minister to be careful about selecting what he needs to keep. I'm counting on a clear explanation in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u167	Thank you. No, Mr. Ommzigt, we're doing interruptions in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u168	I know, but I asked the question: is there one Prime Minister who ever threw pieces in the shredder?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u169	Do you still want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u170	I remember this example. But perhaps we can still there in the suspension... I remember the example mentioned in the public interviews. It could end up in the shredder. It's been a long time. You're asking me, but that's an ugly example that no one's using right now. I'm not saying the Prime Minister does. I assume he has acted with care and integrity. And I assume he will stick to that selection list and explain in a moment: ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully selected and everything you ask is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the chairman of the WRR opened our day of responsibility. She spoke wise words. Archiving is essential for taking responsibility and exercising control, as well as for learning the past. Now it's not about not having private messages, or not being erased. The point is, you can't just delete important messages from your work. For me, this debate is basically about control of power. Publicity and accessibility of information is crucial for this. For that control cannot take place properly if the one with power itself determines on the basis of what information that happens. So when I read earlier this year that the National Archives were going to get fifteen boxes of documents in Florida, where former President Trump had taken them, I nodded in agreement. For the same reason, I shook my head when I read about the Prime Minister's message management and the guidelines for it. As far as I'm concerned, more checks and balances are needed here. I don't think that's such a radical idea. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to take a step backwards mentally and give his opinion on these rules as a democrat and historian. Because I think we're both going to give the Dutch Robert Caro the best source material possible. More specifically, the Prime Minister said yesterday that he had deleted only minor texts and that he undoubtedly made a mistake. But the essence is that, by its very nature, this method is not only bizarrely time-consuming for the Prime Minister, but is also error-prone and abuse-prone. For how many wrongly deleted messages does the Prime Minister find acceptable? What did the Prime Minister do in doubt? It is very difficult, in my opinion, to judge on the day itself which reports will be relevant over a number of years, especially in crisis time; think of the MH17, think of the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister refers to Annex 4 of an internal handshake on compliance with the Wob, the Public Administration Act; I could not yet find a version on the Open Government Act. But why is the Prime Minister basing himself on that document, which, from a legal point of view, is nothing more than a PDF on a website? That while compliance with the Archive Act is a legal obligation, with guarantees and supervision. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is prepared to ask the Public Sector Information and Heritage Inspectorate for an opinion on his archive management. In the letter he writes about a concrete case that has been investigated. Could he explain that? Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister has an exemplary role, not only for the rest of the cabinet and government officials, but also for all the aldermen who take office these months. I recognize the feeling very well: all these rules and obligations are often clumsy and uncomfortable. But they're there for a reason and they're there for everyone. If they're not enough, we need to adapt them. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take the initiative? That, in my view, is the pattern that we must break here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u173	You're at the end of your speech? Yes. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr Sneller's input is spot-on and razor-sharp, because it reveals exactly what is not going well right now. But my question is why Deputy Prime Minister Kaag is able to do what is necessary without any clear or more clear guidelines, and we have known for a number of years that it is necessary. What could be the explanation that the Prime Minister is not acting in accordance with that same idea and/or moral code? It's the same type of office, the same cabinet and the same guidelines, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u175	I do not know an answer to the specific question. At the same time, I'm just as surprised. This hand-out was drawn up following the statements made by the Council of State, to which Mrs Kuik also refers. That hand-out attempts to bring uniformity. Then, as far as I am concerned, this is a uniformity that is too fragile. I would like us to agree here in a moment that there will be a more solid system, no matter how precisely it is arranged, if only it is regulated, whereby not only the ruler himself can judge which documents are archived.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u176	But that's looking ahead. I am a bit upset that we say in this house every time afterwards: it should have been better. In this case, we already knew in 2019 that it had to be better. There are examples that show that it was necessary to do better. Vice Prime Minister Kaag of D66 is also dealing with this, as she had it recorded in the newspaper yesterday. Nevertheless, despite several scandals, despite several reprimands, this Prime Minister is unable to do so despite other appeals, despite a very clear statement by the Council of State. Why is that, and how can we break that pattern, if we tighten up directive after directive, but apparently the will is not there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u177	I fully agree with Mrs Kuik that the Prime Minister is the first to be responsible for changing behavior and adapting a method, if necessary, on the basis of what has happened in the past. At the same time, I'm charging myself. I mean, I've been able to defend the Open Government Act in the Senate, I've looked at this more often, and I've made motions about more integrity and more openness. But I never thought about the question of who's making that selection. When I read that hand-off, I think it shouldn't be like this. With that pattern that I hope to break, I also hope that the Prime Minister himself will take a step forward, but otherwise we have to do it, I think that is what I am referring to. Even after Polman's text, we didn't tighten the rules. I think we should do that now. We must also ensure that these rules are clear and enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u179	We can do the latter. But you can make a rule after rule, but after that debate on Polman we already knew: this is no good. Then there was also the discussion on this same point: why do you remove something that is clearly so important for the controllability and the truth in this house? But they didn't act like that. My concern is, therefore, that we are about to table another motion under which we all put our scribbles, because that is what we think is important, but that in the meantime we are not acting in that spirit. That was not the case in the last three years. That's where I care. You say now with all your good intentions: boys, we're gonna take care of it a little bit better, and then it's okay, really. But it's not okay with that. If you don't change your behavior, if you don't understand deeply that it has to be different, it doesn't change. I'm afraid you'll be the prime minister's I.D. soon to say, "Good motion. I'll sign it myself and that's it." That would be a real shame to me, because that doesn't teach us anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u180	I understand Mrs. Chicken's concern very well and I share the inconvenience about this. At the same time, I think we can do something about this. Whoever's in that Tower and whoever's in other departments, we need to make sure those rules are more robust. And yes, behavior must also change, but I'm mainly looking at what we can arrange ourselves to make sure that that behavior changes as well. Then it just has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u181	D66 rightly points to its core values, namely openness, transparency and accountability. I'm adding new leadership and new governance culture. My questions are as follows. Has there been any contact with the Ministry of General Affairs and the D66 Group? Has there been contact with the coalition groups before the request for this debate? My second question is: why does D66 seem to opt for the flight ahead again? In the future, we're gonna do things better. One of the core values of D66 is the protection of the rule of law. This concerns the decision of the Council of State on these texts, but also on the decision of the Council of State on nitrogen and climate. The cabinet, which D66 supports, does not deliver on these three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u182	May I suggest we do nitrogen and climate elsewhere? I had hoped that you would ask Mr Ellian the question about contact, because he is the only one I have been on the phone with this morning. I have also been in contact with other MPs, including the opposition. I haven't been in touch with the General Affairs Department. I have never received or had to receive a text from this Prime Minister. Unfortunately, some Members of Parliament have experience of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u183	I'm asking this because it's not separate at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u184	Sorry, there was a second part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u185	Go ahead, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u186	There was also a question about the Council of State's ruling on the subject of this debate. I think it made it clear that chat messages, whether that's Telegram messages or text messages, are covered by the Wob. As far as I'm concerned, that didn't matter very much, because the Archive Act said: it doesn't matter what form they have modestly, it's archive documents that need to be preserved. So there should be a proper arrangement for that. There should already be a selection method for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u187	Exactly. That is what my question is about, even if Mr Sneller hopes that we will talk about nitrogen and climate at other times. The same applies, of course. It is shameful that anyone should go to court at all and that the Council of State should say: it is in the law and the Dutch state does not abide by it. You're already 10-0 behind. Shame on all your eyes out of your head. In D66 I hope to always keep a partner who defends that we abide by what we have agreed with each other on what is important for the future. You shouldn't be so pitiful about that. Then a solution is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u188	You must be a little shorter, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u189	Yes, Mr. Chairman, as short as the Prime Minister's texts. I'd like that. Every time that flight to the front means you accept, don't solve anything and give each time a new chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u190	The cabinet and the government must abide by that ruling of the Council of State. That statement was not about the Prime Minister, but everyone has to abide by it, point. The same applies to the other judgments. Two. Making rules future-proof and improving them is not a flight forward, but making sure that you solve problems, strengthen the system and strengthen our democracy. I think that is what we need to do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u192	The last question. Is that why we need to keep this Prime Minister in the saddle? Or can we arrange this strengthening of the rules that Mr Sneller is talking about in any case, especially in view of the co-legislative role of the Chamber? Is it necessary to keep this Prime Minister here with the solution proposed by D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u193	As long as there's a contradiction for this kind of bill, it doesn't matter who's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then we go to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Madam President. What the hell happened here? The Prime Minister has an old phone and is therefore saving his apps. I have to say "messages." I do not think he is the only one who is still so active in texting. He even removes them very actively. There is already a whole debate about all technical things, such as the Archive Act. That's all true. That's probably why this is happening. This is also what the whole of the Netherlands knows. That is also why I asked Mr Bontenbal of the CDA and Mr Ellian of the VVD: do you believe this? The whole of the Netherlands knows that this is just bullshit. It's obviously not true. The PM already had a smartphone. It's just on the table at every debate next to him. It's in hundreds of pictures. It's not like he didn't have access to modern communications via WhatsApp or other communications services. He chose to communicate by text message and he chose to delete those texts because he knew they wouldn't be found. It's a very logical, obvious story. All of the Netherlands what that is true. We don't have to have a very big interview for that. We don't have to play detective. It's just plain bullshit. It fits, as has been said, in a pattern of many lies. The past 12 years have been marked by all kinds of lies. The Prime Minister lies every time and gets away with it. This Prime Minister feels he's above the law. That's right. This prime minister is above the law, because there are 77 seats that will always cover him. Look at the Prime Minister's body position, the whole debate. Then you see it's one of total relaxation. Even now he sits quietly by browsing his papers and probably removing some texts. That is because the Prime Minister knows that 77 people are sitting here who are going to reject that motion of censure. He's completely relaxed. He knows he's above the law. That's why these things happen over and over again. That's why he keeps getting away with absurd scandals, such as the surcharge scandal, in which the government rages through the population like a waltz and in which parents, children, families are completely dismembered. That keeps happening, because there are 77 people here who are okay with it. They think: well, it'll take my time; I'll go to my next job later. That's why he can keep getting away with it. He also lies to his own constituents all the time. The VVD is a bit critical of immigration in election time. But when it comes down to it, when it comes down to it, the VVD votes for immigration over and over again. This Prime Minister has broken an immigration record. Never before have so many immigrants come to the Netherlands. It's the same thing with all the climate stuff. "Yes, we have to keep it affordable, blah, blah, blah, blah." Meanwhile, the Rutte Cabinets have never taken so many climate measures that are so incredibly expensive. Think of the European Union. I remember very well that there would be no Eurobonds. Well, that's just Rutte's signature underneath. It's just the same story over and over again. It fits into his modus operandi. He's lying, and the whole of the Netherlands knows that. The whole of the Netherlands knows that these texts have been deliberately deleted, so that they cannot be found through the Public Administration Act. I hope this will finally become an eye-opener for the rest of the Netherlands. He's not just lying about his texts. He lies about a lot of things. It's time to take care of him and vote him out. Mr. Chairman. I have another question for the Prime Minister: can he give four examples of how written texts have been archived and whether they are covered by the Wob? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan, the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All directors but we all know here that what we are doing is under a magnifying glass. We know that nothing we do is really confidential, that directors are wobble, that the parliamentary press and the whole of the Netherlands are watching over our shoulders. That's good, too. Directors and politicians are in the service of our people. We hear and need to be transparent and to be accountable for what we are doing. In that light, I find it difficult to imagine that our Prime Minister has worked on an outdated phone for so long. Do I find the way he handled his texts unwise? Yes, I do. Do I think that we should talk very well about the digital world and how we should deal with it as rulers, parliamentarians and departments? Yeah, me too. The problem is broader than just what we are discussing today, because Mr. Sneller said it already and yesterday during the Accountability Breakfast Mrs. Prins, the President of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, said: in the context of our accountability, transparency and, perhaps most importantly, in the context of services to our citizens, we need to talk about how to deal with any digital disruption. We need to talk to each other about artificial intelligence, about aligning systems, about how to deal with the law on privacy, about the Archive Act, the guidelines and therefore very concrete about how to deal with text messages. All this deserves serious attention. As the President of the WRR said, it may not be a sexy subject, but it does touch on the core of our democratic rule of law. The debate that should have been held today on digital matters must therefore be conducted quickly. A number of colleagues have already said it today: we are not very good at it. I would like to say myself that I respect and appreciate most of my colleagues here, or indeed all of my colleagues here in this House. Everyone can, of course, do and let and say what he or she wants. But the way we deal with each other, and certainly with our rulers, does not deserve the beauty prize as far as I am concerned. TickTok or Instagram movies or Twitter messages to fool or burn each other or rulers; I'm sorry, but I really hate that. In my view, it certainly does not help to regain citizens' confidence in politics. As far as I'm concerned, treat someone else the way you want to be treated. In that light, before I reach a verdict, I just want to wait and see the Prime Minister's explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you. Finally, we will listen to Mrs Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u199	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Two things in advance. We are having this debate when the world is on fire. There is war in Ukraine, hunger in the Horn of Africa, and in our country many people are incredibly worried about the certainty of their existence. However, it is important that we have this debate today, because it is about controlling the government. That is essential in a democracy. Trust in government and politics is under pressure. Transparent, open and honest, you do not do so because the law prescribes it, but above all because the government must be trusting. The reason for this debate again does not contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. Then the contents. The President of the Scientific Council for Government Policy asked yesterday, on Accountability Day, the question: what if the necessary dates are not available for carrying out our controlling task? Keeping digital information is essential in the light of the task we have as Lower House to control government, power, and transparency towards society. That is essential for a democracy like ours. The reports of those who take the decisions and the way in which those decisions have been made are important in this respect, including for future reconstructions. Then the Prime Minister's handling of the texts also raises questions for my group. Did the Prime Minister not only act in accordance with the rules, but did he also do everything in his power to comply with those rules, to be open and honest about his communication, so that the government's actions can also be democratically controlled? Mr. Chairman. So that goes beyond the rules alone. It's about trusting the government and controlling power. And although there may all be reasons to use an old Nokia....................................................................................................................... Did he get any advice on that? After all, he is part of our country's political and administrative summit, where it is clear that extra attention is needed. And what did he do with those advices? We read in the letter sent to us by the Prime Minister yesterday that he read important texts to employees. What happened to that? Have they been archived somehow? Can we check that out? And how does paraphrasing and passing on basically what's in those texts exactly relate to the rules? Does the Prime Minister understand that the lightness with which he communicates about removing text messages is not reassuring and does not contribute to restoring confidence? Mr. Chairman. In the existing rules, there is now plenty of room for an own assessment of directors about what messages they keep and what messages they consider important enough. I want to assume and be able to believe that rulers do this with care and integrity, but the reality is that we don't know exactly. We can't verify that. At a time when confidence is under pressure, we are asking ourselves whether the scope for these own considerations is not too large at the moment and whether the indications at the moment do not leave too much room for manoeuvre. We think it's time to tighten up those rules. Is the Prime Minister prepared to ask the Government Commissioner for Information on how we could tighten it up? Finally, Mr President. The Christian Union therefore considers it important that we look at these rules and tighten them up. But whatever rules we make here, one way or another, you can always get around it if you want to. For example, you can call and it is not to check what is discussed in those conversations. That's why I started trusting you. We must comply not only with the rules, but also with the intention and the spirit behind them. Directors must do everything in their power to be transparent, open and honest about what they are doing, to regain people's trust and to enable us to control power in a democratic rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u201	I am so curious to see what the Christian Union itself thinks about them arguing in the direction of the Prime Minister again and making it clear that it is a matter of keeping the law generously on your own and that, if you have the power, you will ensure that you are accountable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u202	I said something about that. I think that now, at a time when trust is under pressure, there is too much room in those rules. That's a fact. We think it is time to tighten up those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u203	That wasn't my question. Mrs Van der Graaf rightly says: "Even if you take care of things properly with the laws and the rules, it still comes down to the question of whether you are self-righteous enough to do what can be expected of you in this office." A prime minister has a dominant position. It's part of the job to make sure you're properly controlled. Whether you're literally sticking to all those rules or not, you have to want to. I remember that the Christian Union had just said about this trust: something snapped in our midst. Today we are standing here again and again, the Christian Union Group must pick on the Prime Minister's sense that this is part of it. I'm just asking for an opinion on that. How does the Christian Union see it itself that they now have to make that clear to the Prime Minister, who they themselves helped to get back into this saddle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u204	I have just said that I do not like the reason for the debate. I also said that the way the Prime Minister handled the texts does not contribute to confidence. I would also ask him to reflect on this in this debate. So, yeah, I feel that discomfort. I also see that the rules at the moment leave too much room for that own consideration. We say it's really time to tighten that up. Mrs Ouwehand also refers to the debate on 1 April last year, in which my group leader said how important it is how we deal with the truth here, that you always have to deal with it in a secure manner. That places great responsibility on us. No matter how you turn it, this system we work in, our democracy, stands or falls with confidence. It's incredibly important that we do that. So I am simply asking very critical questions here today, because I see the inconvenience that is here and I share it with colleagues here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u205	Thank you. That really makes us... We are now almost at the end of the first term. Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u206	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make a small point of order for a piece I would like to have before the Prime Minister starts his first term. That is immediately a test for what has or has not been removed. We have all read in the newspaper that the Mayor of Amsterdam, Mrs Halsema, sent a text to Mr Rutte on 1 June 2020 at 8.30 p.m. in the context of the protests on Dam Square at that time. He may have replied to that as well. They didn't come up through the Volkskrant's Wob requests. That's a substantive tweet. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to send that tweet of Mayor Halsema of 1 June 2020 at 8.30 p.m. and his possible reactions to the Chamber before his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u207	You mean text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u208	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u209	You said tweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u210	Yeah, text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u211	We'll pass this through. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u212	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour, including lunch break. We'll start at 1.20 p.m. sharp.
