ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. I brought the hammer. For those who follow the debate on the State of the European Union from a distance, excuse the delay. Due to problems with the livestream, we emigrated to commission room 1 in the building of the First Chamber. We will begin with the first spokesperson to sign up for the debate. That's Mrs. Karimi. Since not everyone in this Chamber has a clock in front of them in the Chamber, I suggest that we give a signal when you have three minutes left. Then you will know that your last three minutes of speaking time have come to this debate. I call Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The ambition of the coalition agreement to play a leading role in the European Union is not a moment too early. The European continent is once again the battlefield of a bloody war. The State of the European Union, recently sent by this Minister to Parliament 2022, further explains where we can expect a leading role of Rutte IV. The Netherlands wants the EU to become more effective, economically stronger, greener and safer. According to the Dutch government, a leading role of the Netherlands is not only appropriate, but also necessary. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance agrees with the core of the government's EU policy, but in the context of today's world, this phrase needs to be thoroughly concrete, and I want to talk about this today. Firstly, an effective EU. Three and a half months old is Russia's latest military aggression. Unfortunately, after initial agreement on sanctions against Russia and support for Ukraine and its people, the EU is increasingly revealing its divisions. "In Brussels the veto rules again," headlined the NRC last Saturday. Spokesmanship was lost in the decision-making process on the sixth sanction package. After weeks, a partial oil embargo against Russia was not yet definitive with the notorious cross-ligger Orbán about his forced exemption position for Hungary, or he successfully demanded that the patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Kirill, who provided Putin's war with religious legitimacy be removed. How does the government appreciate the EU's ability to act at the moment? Orbán's success over the last few weeks is poignant. A more effective EU requires, in the first instance, internal cohesion. For years, violations of the rule of law in Hungary have been tolerated, Orbán has been ruled out and the Article 7 procedure has not been taken seriously. How does the Minister view the decision-making mechanisms in this context within the EU and what reforms does he propose in the future to make the EU more effective? How does the government assess the European Commission's decision to make available EUR 36 billion from the Corona Restoration Fund to Poland, the other Member State with a critical track record on the rule of law? To a country which disputes the primacy of European law and undermines independent justice by means of political appointments of judges. This half-heartedness in dealing with EU values, such as a strong rule of law and democracy, and the safeguarding of fundamental rights and freedoms, is evidence of a lack of EU capacity in our view. This also affects the EU's credibility. What is the leading role of the Netherlands in protecting these values in the EU? Does the government share the position of the President of the European Commission that, because of the reception of many tens of thousands of Ukrainian refugees and arms supplies to Ukraine, Poland is an important partner in the fight against Putin's aggression, and that it is therefore better not to deny Poland the funds from the Corona Restoration Fund? Or does the government share the position of Mr Timmermans and my group, among others, that the European Commission is the guardian of the European treaties and should not be able to negotiate with the rulings of the European Court, but should be firmly behind the basic rules of a democratic rule of law? Is the government prepared to speak against this in the Council? If necessary, I shall consider tabling a motion on this matter. Although Poland has announced that it will abolish the disciplinary court before the judges, the independence of the judges has still not been restored. There is currently a penalty payment of EUR 1 million per day for Poland imposed by the Court of Justice on violations of the rule of law. What will the Dutch Government do to ensure that the judgment of the Court is enforced? Mr. Chairman. As far as the reception of refugees is concerned, Poland is a two-faced country. Poland's hospitality towards the refugees from Ukraine is very commendable, but it does not prevent Poland from violating human rights at its borders with Belarus and sending refugees back to Belarus by force from further afield. What does the EU actually reward here? A racist refugee policy? I'd like a response from the Minister. The EU's approach to migrants and refugees at its external borders is important for an effective EU in its external actions. The world is fully aware of how the EU does appeal to other countries for human rights violations, but it is itself that tramples on its borders. During the debate on the rule of law in the EU, I drew attention to the violations of human rights at the EU's external borders, to the pushbacks by, among other things, Greece and Poland and the role of the Frontex in them. In the meantime, the Director of Frontex, Fabrice Leggeri, has left, partly as a result of the European Parliament's efforts to put an end to abuses in this organisation. My question to the Minister is once again what leadership role can we expect from the Netherlands to put an end to the continuing violations of human rights of refugees at the EU's external borders. In short, what is the leadership role of the government in ensuring the internal cohesion of the European value community so that its credibility and effectiveness, and thus its ability to act, can be guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, safer EU. In the terrible war on Ukraine's territory, the armed forces and the people of Ukraine resist Russian aggression and Putin's war crimes. In parallel, there is an economic war in which the West and the EU are directly involved. The Western and EU sanctions policy against Russia, on the one hand, and the stop on gas supplies to some EU countries and the suppression of Ukraine's grain exports by Russia, on the other, have unleashed a true world-wide economic war. The poorest part of the world is paying the highest price for this economic war: high energy and food prices, high inflation and a threatening famine. A long-term economic war will disrupt the lives of millions of people worldwide. Let us hope that the economic world war of the moment does not turn into a military one. A peace is more than the absence of war and security is more than just an absence of violence. The economic war that is now under way will not stop until a solution has been found for the war in Ukraine. How does the Dutch government view this? And what position does it take with regard to ending the war? At what cost is this acceptable? Vladimir Putin's Russia is clearly the aggressor with daily gruesome war crimes against the Ukrainian people. According to GroenLinks, it is our duty, the duty of our leaders, to pursue a swift end to this war. Does the government share this position? The safety and well-being of millions of people depend on this. My group believes that it is too quiet on the diplomatic front. Can the Minister share with us what thoughts he and the EU have on the way to ending this war? For the security of the Ukrainian people, it is important that they can count on the prospect of a future within the EU. Can the Minister give ready-made wine in this house about the position of the Dutch Government on Ukraine's accession to the EU? My group agrees that Ukraine must meet all the criteria before it can actually join the EU. At present, it is a question of granting candidate status. Under what conditions does the Dutch Government consider dialogue and cooperation with Russia possible? In the long term, cooperation on the Eurasian continent is desirable for the security of Europe. How does the government see Europe's security structure now and in the long term? Has the position of the Netherlands changed with regard to a European army and European defence structure? And, if so, in what way? What is the leading role of the Netherlands in the debate on strategic autonomy and a European security structure that also integrates Russia? My group would like to hear an explanation of this Minister's views. It is clear that a lasting peace is not possible without justice. The war criminals must be tried. Can the Minister indicate what options are currently being examined for the trial of the gross violation of war law? Mr President, third. Economically stronger and greener. It should not be surprising that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been an economically stronger and greener EU two things that go hand in hand for over 30 years. Unfortunately, it is only now that the coalition parties slowly realize that the costs of doing nothing about climate change are inconceivablely higher than they are now doing. Actually, we're already too late to stop one and a half degrees of global warming. A stronger economy has so far meant above all a union of a single market and a single currency. However, is a social and sustainable EU what EU citizens want and ask for? The agreement reached the last night between the European Parliament led by Agnes Jongerius and the Council on the minimum wage is rightly a breakthrough. We are counting on the Dutch Government to soon translate this directive into national law. I'd like a response. The government is also positive about the Green Deal, and it also wants to be a frontrunner in this area. The "Fit for 55" package can also count on its support. Now the question is how hard the government is working to speed up initiatives on energy saving and the roll-out of renewable energy and green hydrogen. It should be clear that new gas extraction or coal-fired power stations are not in line with the ambition to lead the way in climate change. The cabinet also wants to focus on a sustainable food system at national and European level, which is in line with the European Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy. It is interesting to note that, in the government's juice valuation of the European Commission's work programme of November 2021, the cabinet considered that there was no long-term vision for rural areas. In the State of the Union 2022, this point no longer comes back. In the meantime, if there is a long-term vision, I ask the Minister. In addition, the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy is again under pressure due to food supply problems caused by the war. Mr. Chairman. The great climate crisis, biodiversity crisis and food crisis should motivate us with great ambition to take on board the energy transition and transition in our economic system, which increases social inequality and exhausts the earth. Can the government indicate in concrete terms what initiatives it is taking for a more social and greener Europe in the light of the leading role it intends to take? Mr. Chairman. The world after 24 February is a different one than before. A more effective and economically stronger, greener and safer EU cannot be achieved if the EU continues to operate with the same rules of the game before 24 February. And majority decision-making on European security and foreign policy with the full involvement of the EP is not only inevitable but highly desirable, and treaty change is therefore also desirable. Now that the conference on the future of Europe has ended, what are the government's plans to achieve the desired Treaty change? And what changes does she think of? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. A leading role of the Netherlands is indeed appropriate and necessary. Now butter with the fish, please. My group will support the government in achieving this ambition. Show us your actions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I'll see if there's any more interruptions in your direction. That is not the case. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. For the first time since the Second World War there has been a brutal conquest war in Europe, with thousands of deadly victims and many millions of displaced persons, including two thirds of Ukrainian children. A war which also carries the risk of escalation of an even greater war. These recent unthinkable events and possible scenarios underline that security in Europe is not self-evident and demonstrate our vulnerability, in Europe and worldwide. While hundreds of people have died every day in the battle in Ukraine as a result of the war, a global energy crisis and a global food crisis have also broken out and Europe is facing a recession at the top of rising inflation. This war is certainly, as many have said, a turning point in history. This therefore calls for new thinking on European security. But looking ahead also requires looking back and learning lessons from the past. Putin's war and the wider threat it poses to the whole of Europe shows that we underestimated the aggression of Russian imperialism, but also that we all failed to achieve a lasting pan-European security architecture after the Cold War. One that would also have provided security for Russia, but also bound by it and could possibly have helped move forward towards a more democratic society. That opportunity was there after the fall of the Berlin Wall, but unfortunately that historic opportunity was missed. Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, we need a ceasefire as soon as possible, which hopefully will enable negotiations to begin. Mr Karimi has just referred to this. In doing so, Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty should be based on the SP. Returning to the agreements in Minsk II, despite all the missed opportunities in the past, seems to be the most promising option. Does the government agree? Betting on Ukraine's full military victory is naive and dangerous. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations has said, regardless of the outcome of this war, there will only be losers here. Does the Minister share that view? Then the longer-term challenges. How can we ensure that the lasting peace and security on the European continent, which we have not managed to forge after the end of the Cold War, will eventually be possible? How can we make sure it doesn't have to take after another cold war of decades? I'd like a response from the Minister. The achievement of an inclusive European security architecture, which we failed to achieve after the fall of the Berlin Wall, is, on the one hand, inevitable if we want to make sustainable security, peace and progress possible, but, on the other hand, it is impossible for Russia to abuse its military and economic power to impose its will on others. It is possible to make it clear to Moscow that, in the longer term, the return to international law standards, to respect the principles laid down, for example, in the 1990 Paris Charter, is of great importance for the future of Russia as a member of the international community. In particular, international diplomacy will have to play a key role in this. How does the government view initiatives by other countries on the diplomatic front, particularly Italy? Meanwhile, the Russian people are paying an extremely heavy price for the criminal war of the Russian President and his government. Support for opposition forces, human rights organisations and peace groups is therefore very important. Does the Minister agree? What are the consequences of the war and the crisis with Russia for the future of the European Union? Big words are often used here. At the conference on the future of Europe, the Kiev moment was already mentioned, but this was mainly spoken of by federalist politicians who saw in the war an opportunity to push through what they have been advocating for years. That is a united Europe, but not only with a single market and a single currency, but preferably with a single army and the abolition of unanimity in all areas. As far as I'm concerned, this is not the way. It undermines European democracy and weakens the Union only in the long term. How does the Minister view this discussion? Does this government ultimately want to abolish unanimity in all areas? If not, where does he want to keep it? Where's the border? Mr. Chairman. We now hear from this minister that the EU must finally become a geopolitical actor. And we also read it in the so-called Strategic Compass. Of course, the EU must stand for its common values in its common foreign policy. It is good that the EU has now united against Russia and imposed unprecedented harsh sanctions. And yes, you can argue whether it should always be done with complete unanimity in the future. On the other hand, the abolition of the veto could also undermine the legitimacy of decisions, as there would be no consensus and certainly if it meant that smaller countries would be overruled by greater support for the EU as a whole. Does the Minister see these risks with us? The idea of the EU as a geopolitical actor is also about strategic autonomy, a concept that this government has also embraced. When it comes to safeguarding public interests, such as reducing our strategic dependencies in global supply chains, there is something to be said for strategic autonomy. But if it leads to a permanent division of the world into rival economic blocks, we're not for that. Nor does it lead to the formation of the EU as a military power bloc. That is the kind of geopoliticisation of the EU that we can better resist. Does the Minister see these dangers with us? European integration has once started as a peace project. That's brought us a lot of good. My group has therefore been and is reluctant for further and accelerated militarisation of the EU. Is the fact that the EU, unlike the US and China, is not a military force, but a power based on trade and on rights and values, not just its strength? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The question of how to proceed with the EU was also raised at the Conference on the Future of Europe, which I was allowed to take part in from the Senate with Mr Oomen. It was presented in advance as a bottom-up process in which citizens would engage in dialogue with each other and with politicians on the renewal of the EU, i.e. the voice of citizens and not just elected politicians. At best, the experiment has succeeded in half. To the frustration and frustration of participating citizens, politicians, especially the European Parliament, often took the lead and sometimes also sent the debate. For example, citizens were sometimes used to legitimise a Brussels political agenda, all through a little transparent and democratic process. This is, in fact, a sign of the problems facing the EU's decision-making process. In the State of the Union of the Government, we read: "As far as strengthening democratic legitimacy is concerned, the Cabinet considers it important to bring the citizen closer to the Union and to increase support for decisions. But how? How do we really make the EU more democratic? Not through the introduction of a system of spitzen candidate lists in the European elections, as mentioned in this document. The Minister does not really think that this will bring the EU closer to the citizens? In my view, the conference was mostly a missed opportunity, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks back at it. It was an opportunity to take real steps towards a more democratic EU, and that remains urgently needed, which does not mean that good proposals have not been made from the civil panels, where hard work has been done. In this way, we have come up with the proposal to waive the unanimity requirement under Article 7, which would allow countries which continue to blunder the rule of law to be deprived of the right to vote. Does the Minister see any chance that such a form will become reality for the coming? Mr. Chairman. The conclusion of the debate on the European rule of law a few months ago was a gloomy one. Honestly, I'm even more gloomy now. While Hungary, known as Russia-friendly, is now in any case confronted with the new MFF rule of law, Poland seems to be starting to dance again. As Mr Karimi has just mentioned when it comes to the Commission, the billions from the Recovery Fund are now being released, at least after what critics see mainly as cosmetic adjustments. I assume the Minister agrees with me that this is an extremely bad thing, but what is he going to do about it? Can he stop this with other countries in the Council? Can the Minister promise that his commitment will be that there will be no euro from the Recovery Fund to Poland until Poland has fully complied with the previous rulings of the European Court of Justice? I believe that the Commission is making a real mistake here and is also doing it politically in a way that the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, is not appropriate. We often hear that the war against Ukraine has changed everything, but what should not change is that we in the EU stand firm for the values of the democratic rule of law. And so we must respect them in our own homes, otherwise we will only be weaker in the future. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. The Conference on the Future of Europe was wrongly called that, because it was not about Europe but about the EU. Europe is still bigger than the EU. As far as the SP Group is concerned, there is no question of a rapid extension of the latter either. The war, however profound, does not change that insight. Nor should the war in Ukraine be a reason to relax the conditions for accession. Does the Minister agree with us? In fact, the lesson of the previous enlargement is that we should not do so until we are sure that countries are ready and before we have the instrument in our hands to act effectively as new Member States in relation to the values of the democratic rule of law. This does not mean that we should not cooperate with European countries outside the EU. It is therefore a good thing that there are other organisations in which this cooperation takes shape. The Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the Council of Europe, which is one of those other organisations, decided on 20 May last to hold a very rare summit in the short term, a summit with the Heads of State or Government of the 46 Member States on the future role of Europe's oldest and largest treaty organisation, which aims to prevent war and promote peace through greater rule of law, human rights and democracy in all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u5	You have three minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna work. Can the Minister indicate what the Dutch commitment will be at this summit? How can the Council of Europe contribute more to making Europe more peaceful, safer and prosperous, for example, I shall continue to come back to this by achieving rapid EU accession to the ECHR Convention on Human Rights? The Council of Europe, on a proposal from its Parliamentary Assembly, has withdrawn membership of Russia for gross violations of international law. Does the Minister also see this as a warning to other countries that violate their treaty obligations, including those of the ECHR? Does the Minister see the importance of more perseverance for the Council of Europe? The Council of Europe is a bastion of right-based multilateralism. Let the EU remain so, especially in these times of geopolitical rivalry. As always, I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Apeldoorn has rightly expressed his horror at the war in Ukraine and Russian aggression. I also taste a little bit that he struggles with how best to deal with it, just like I do. He spoke of a ceasefire, as soon as possible, on the return to the Minsk II Agreement. My question at this point is this, because that is also my struggle. A cease-fire as soon as possible could mean that it is to the advantage of either side. As long as Russia has a force majeure of weapons, it can last for a long time and a rapid cease-fire could still be at Ukraine's disadvantage. To what extent does a call for a rapid ceasefire contribute to a final, lasting solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u8	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Koole: I am struggling with this too, and I think we are all struggling with it. Nor is it up to us, and by "us," I mean the West, NATO, to impose a ceasefire. We can't force that either. That is ultimately up to the warring parties. We can call it in. I would also like to stress that a ceasefire is not yet a definitive political solution. Then the negotiations have yet to begin. As I have just made clear in my text, the starting point of these negotiations must be the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. At the same time, we must realise what it means if this war continues much longer. In this war, hundreds of people die every day, on both sides. In the Donbas there is now incredibly fierce fighting. I saw a report by RTL the other day, in which a resident said: I don't care who wins, if the shooting stops. Now I don't want to say that I don't care, but I'm just going to outline here a perspective of how terrible that war is on the ground. I think it would be a good thing if the weapons were to shut up, because that's where the talking can begin. I think we should call for that. This also means an appeal to Russia to withdraw the troops. That will not happen immediately, but in our view is part of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Mr Koole again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u10	I would like to thank Mr Van Apeldoorn for his reply and also his struggle, which I think many will have. But my question remains, of course, whether his appeal from the Netherlands through the European Union for a rapid cease-fire is sensible in all circumstances. Of course, the war must end eventually. Weapons must remain silent and speaking must begin. But is it not up to the parties themselves, Ukraine and Russia, to take decisions on this? The risk of saying now that it must stop quickly is that this could benefit one of the parties, perhaps Russia. I find that very difficult, but I too believe that the war must end. I understand that struggle very strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr Van Apeldoorn, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u12	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll be brief. My question to the Minister was: what is the state of diplomacy now? I think it's always important to give diplomacy a chance. A ceasefire must then be part of that. That's what my call was meant to be. That is why I asked about Italy's initiatives. It's going to be a very difficult process. I will not say, like Henry Kissinger, that Ukraine should give up only part of its territory. That is not up to us either, but we need to negotiate at some point. This war can only eventually get a political solution and not a military one. There is also a certain tension between justice and peace. But once again, it is not right for us to do so, but I do think that a ceasefire is a necessary start.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you. I'll take a look around to see if there are any other spokesmen. That is not the case. Then I give the floor to Mrs Prast and she speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Europe was hit by a financial crisis in 2008. First, what was to be saved had to be saved, then it was time for diagnosis and therapy. Europe adapted the rules to reduce the likelihood of recurrence. A joint resolution mechanism was developed. It stipulates that those who benefit when things go well will have to pay for them if things go wrong. A resolution mechanism should prevent the failure of a system bank from pulling the whole economy along. Account holders will be protected up to €100,000. How different was it when Europe was attacked by a zoonoses pandemic? It took a long time to recognize it was a pandemic. The Netherlands pointed the finger at Italy. Each country had its own strategy, so that Dutch people could party in Belgium while everything here was locked and Limburg was flooded by German merchants when we let the strings be celebrated. There was no coordination. If there is a blueprint in Europe for a coordinated approach to a future zoonoses pandemic, I ask the Minister. There are 2 million deaths in Europe alone by COOVID-19. The emotional damage among care workers is great. That has had to work day and night and sometimes have to choose who did and who wasn't allowed to survive. Government debt has increased by 100 billion, a burden for future generations. And yet I see no ambition to prevent another pandemic. The causes and risk factors are known: intensive livestock farming, deforestation, globalisation. As a result of the rise in temperature, more and more tropical pathogens enter Europe. Three-quarters of infectious diseases have now come from the animal kingdom, particularly as a result of our behaviour. Bird flu and African swine fever are the latest examples, which cannot be separated from how we deal with animals. The mass of mammals on Earth now consists of 34% people, 62% animals in livestock farming and 4% wild animals. Of all birds, only 30% live in the wild and the rest live in poultry farming. You can sense that this will lead to enormous problems under unchanged policies, of which covid was just a preview. I ask the Minister what Europe is doing to tackle the causes of a zoonoses pandemic and what we are doing about prevention, now that we know a lot about the spread of zoonoses. Mr. Chairman. Europe is growing green. The Commission claims to have spent 20% on climate policy in the period 2014-2020. However, according to the European Court of Auditors, out of the EUR 216 billion that the Commission ranks under climate policy, a third EUR 72 billion is not climate-relevant or even harmful to the future of life on earth. The Court calls the European Commission's methodology unreliable. Does the Minister share the criticism of the European Court of Auditors? If not, in which his vision deviates? If so, is he going to do something about this in Brussels? I'm considering a motion. Of the 72 billion green crops, 80% go to agriculture. In addition, there are many European agricultural billions with a sustainability claim, which the Court of Auditors has not been able to establish with certainty that it is green crops, but for which it does not see any evidence of a beneficial effect. For this category of expenditure, the European Court of Auditors therefore calls for a scientific basis. Does the Minister support that request? Is he going to do his best in Brussels? And if it doesn't work out there, is he willing to commission himself for a scientific research into the validity of the sustainability claim of these expenses? I'm considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission wants to remove import duties and quotas for Ukrainian products for one year in order to boost the Ukrainian economy, according to President Von der Leyen. Reducing taxes gives an impetus to Ukraine if there is a demand shortage, but there is no shortage of demand at all. There's a lack of offer. Ukraine can produce much less due to the war and much of what it can produce does not come out of the country due to logistical problems. This is precisely the reason why export prices have risen so much. According to the UN, the war in Ukraine, together with Russia, is threatening a massive food crisis, as well as extreme heat and drought in India. The latter is not separate from global warming. By suspending, EU importers are cheaper and can offer Ukraine higher prices than the rest of the world. If we are not careful, the rich Europe, in which not starvation but obesity is a problem, will grab the grain and sunflower oil in front of other countries, including the poorest. However, the cabinet supports this proposal. It writes that "the war is putting pressure on important trade flows of food, for example, and therefore continues to advocate the reduction of distorting export restrictions." What effect does the Minister expect on the price and quantity of imports from Ukraine? Does he expect to shift from an important trade flow as food from Ukraine? If so, in what direction? What impact does he expect on food scarcity in countries where hunger already prevails? Mr. Chairman. Ukraine has worse rules than the Netherlands in terms of animal welfare, the environment, public health and food safety. Farmers with us are therefore much more expensive. In other words, the price of our eggs is closer to the real cost. Ukraine is allowed to export 3,000 tonnes of eggs and 3,000 tonnes of egg products per year to the EU without a levy. It has exported more than twice in recent years. Do I understand that no import duties are imposed on eggs during the suspension? If so, what effect does the Minister expect on the position of Dutch poultry farmers? And how is this policy compatible with the coalition agreement, which states that the cabinet protects entrepreneurs from unfair competition? How is this reward for animal suffering that we find unacceptable in the Netherlands to justify? Most consumers, including those who consciously buy eggs with a Better Life label, still eat battery eggs and egg products without knowing, because they are processed into all kinds of food. How does the Minister view this from the point of view of transparent and fair information? I'm considering a motion. The cabinet deserves a compliment for its commitment in Brussels to the abolition of EU-funded promotion of meat consumption, in line with a motion of the Party for Animals adopted in the House of Representatives. The Regulation on which this funding is based will be reviewed. That offers an opportunity for abolition. Does the Minister know anything about the timing of this review? Mr. Chairman. The Economist calls the food crisis a threatening catastrophe. The land that is now being used for the cultivation of animal feed could feed seven times as many people as it was used for food that does not get to humans via the detour of meat. And it takes hundreds of litres of water to produce a small piece of meat. Minister Staghouwer has expressed the hope that the food crisis will encourage people to think about their eating patterns and therefore to eat less meat. Is it true that Ukrainian feed is an important import product for the Netherlands? If so, how can this call and the suspension of import duties from Ukraine be reconciled? Doesn't thinking about the diet require consumers to be better informed about the contribution of meat to hunger and thirst in the world? Is the Minister prepared to use information on packaging, for example on the water needed for production? And doesn't the urgency of food scarcity require that the cabinet and the politicians themselves make up for it? Businesses take initiatives where the Ministry and the European Parliament can take an example. Recently I discovered that the coffee bar in the NN office in Amsterdam serves standard oat milk in the cappuccino. There is also cow's milk, but the customer has to ask for it and pay a dime extra. In the context of transparency, I say that I am Commissioner for two parts of the National Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to follow this good example in his ministry? Foreign Affairs has an exemplary role in catering, with a focus on representatives: high-ranking people, people with influence from other countries. Is the Minister prepared the "Carnivore? Pass it on!"-principle to introduce? This means that vegetarians do not have to pass on dietary wishes and who wants meat. Finally, the Brussels regulation on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. We now know that the banks consider the PEP controls to be disproportionate. In response to questions from my colleague Nicolaï, the Minister announced that he would work in the negotiations in Brussels on the new package to ensure proportionality in the intensified investigation of PEPs and their neighbours. The Minister and I have had a debate on this before. At that time, I asked whether the desired information could not be collected by one institution, after which banks could request it. The minister thought that was an intriguing idea and would leave it with De Nederlandsche Bank. Has that ever happened? What was the conclusion? I'm considering a motion. Is the Minister prepared to follow this good example in his ministry? Foreign Affairs has an exemplary role in catering, with a focus on representatives: high-ranking people, people with influence from other countries. Is the Minister prepared the "Carnivore? Pass it on!"-principle to introduce? This means that vegetarians do not have to pass on dietary wishes and who wants meat. Finally, the Brussels regulation on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. We now know that the banks consider the PEP controls to be disproportionate. In response to questions from my colleague Nicolaï, the Minister announced that he would work in the negotiations in Brussels on the new package to ensure proportionality in the intensified investigation of PEPs and their neighbours. The Minister and I have had a debate on this before. At that time, I asked whether the desired information could not be collected by one institution, after which banks could request it. The minister thought that was an intriguing idea and would leave it with De Nederlandsche Bank. Has that ever happened? What was the conclusion? I'm considering a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u15	You have almost three minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u17	Well, well, well. Are there any interruptions or questions in the direction of Mrs Prast? That is not the case. I propose that we move on to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa's contribution from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has made everything different. The Minister rightly mentions it as a turning point in history in his State of the Union. Speakers before me have already mentioned this. The reason why the European Union was created, the achievement of peace in Europe, is suddenly topical again: not a theme of the past, but a reality of today. The desire of Ukraine and other countries such as Georgia and Moldova to join the European Union is based on that desire for peace. We are not only fighting for Ukraine's freedom, we are fighting for Europe's freedom, the ambassador of Ukraine said in the Netherlands. And rightly so. In recent years, the value of the European Union has been increasingly questioned: out loud or inside out. But that doubt, which led, for example, to the Brexit, has turned the countries that now form the EU into a sense of the value of the European Union. Countries that need each other, who support each other in their common desire for peace and freedom. Europe is a continent that cannot afford to rely too heavily on great world powers for our freedom and prosperity. Geopolitical developments are too uncertain for this and the hunger for power of countries such as China is too great. Europe will have to learn to see itself as a world power, writes Caroline de Gruyter. There is an increasing awareness that the European Common Foreign and Security Policy needs to become more effective and that the Common Security and Defence Policy needs to be strengthened. The Strategic Compass recently adopted in March lays the foundations for this. But with the war in Ukraine, NATO is also back on the world stage. Who could have predicted last year that Sweden and Finland would now join NATO? And that the Netherlands, alongside other countries, is seriously planning to meet the financial obligations of the alliance? A plan which the Christian Union Group congratulates the cabinet on, although that intention must of course still be implemented. My group wholeheartedly supports strengthening the CSDP and taking NATO seriously. However, we wonder how both developments can successfully co-exist. The Union stresses that a strong Europe is of added value for NATO. This may be looked at differently from NATO. Isn't there any more thought in or, where the Union thinks in and-and-so? Can the Minister give his views on this? In a readingable interview in Trouw, former NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop warns Scheffer about the future of NATO after 2024, when there may be another power change in the White House. He felt that, apart from developments within NATO, Europe should be prepared to act independently. Mr. Chairman. My group sees the rationality of this remark, but we see a lot of shortcomings in the actual implementation of such self-regulation. That is why we are not following him directly. How's the cabinet looking at this? Mr. Chairman. Peace and freedom are concepts that belong to the European Union. In my group's view, genuine freedom for citizens presupposes a democratic rule of law where duties and rights of citizens and government are clear and balanced... I notice that the sound is falling a little bit away from time to time. A democratic rule of law where duties and rights of citizens and government are clear, balanced and respected. Impressed by the attack on peace in Europe, we could forget the value of the freedom offered by the rule of law. Despite our admiration for the attitude of Poland in particular to the generous reception of Ukrainian refugees, attention must be paid to the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, as other speakers pointed out. The same applies to other countries, such as Ukraine, when they want to join the European Union. However tempting admission as a candidate to the Union may be in the current state of affairs, in the long term, the absence of a functioning democratic rule of law is, in my group's view, an attack from within on peace and freedom within the European Union. A great deal of water will therefore have to flow under the bridge for these countries to become full members of the European Union. I'd like a response from the Minister. In this context, I would like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet views the European Commission's decision not to shorten Poland's corona support for major shortcomings in the Polish rule of law. Does the government have confidence in the agreements reached with Poland on the independence of the judiciary? Mr President, the sound of my microphone keeps falling out. You understand me here? Shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u19	We're going to suspend briefly because of the noise problems. These problems are probably the result of technical operations in the control room in order to restore the sound in the plenary room. So far we have been able to follow Mrs Huizinga very well here, but I think it is wise to wait until the signal arrives that the light is really on green again. The clerk's got a hotline right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u20	The sitting will be resumed. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor. She has nine minutes to speak. That the microphone failed was not because of you or your text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u21	That's a good thing! That'd be something. I'm gonna start with the paragraph where I left off. In this context, I would like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet views the European Commission's decision not to shorten Poland's corona support for major shortcomings in the Polish rule of law. Has the cabinet trusted the agreements made with Poland...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u22	We're suspending again, because the sound is falling out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u23	We're moving on. Mrs Huizinga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u24	Does the government have confidence in the agreements reached with Poland on the independence of the judiciary? How does the cabinet see the solution, advocated by some, to reduce Poland's aid to corona, but at the same time to pay compensation for the major costs incurred for the reception of Ukrainian refugees? Mr. Chairman. If Russia's attack on Ukraine does not make us aware of the importance of the European Union, then there is still the climate and energy crisis. It puts our noses on the fact that some problems are too great for the national Member States. In my group's view, therefore, we do not escape a stronger European Union, with more central direction. The challenge remains to find the right balance between the power of Brussels and the sovereignty of the national Member States. The concept of subsidiarity is clearer on paper than in practice. For my group, this is a long-term search which requires careful consideration over and over again. Can the Minister respond to how the cabinet handles this? And does he agree with my group that this concept should be reconsidered? The fact that the EU organised the conference on the future of Europe shows that the EU is also seeking to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of decisions in Europe. The overall outcome that it needs to be more democratic and transparent is not surprising. Although the way in which this conference was organised is not yet a sign of transparency and democracy. The way in which the results were achieved is difficult to describe as representative, inter alia, through conversations with citizens who had registered themselves for this purpose. In my group's view, this chosen method limits the value of the outcome of the conference, but we still consider it positive that the EU is seeking membership with the citizen. It shows that the Union is also aware of the need to strengthen its support for the European Union. The conference has been a good starting point for this. In the State of the Union, the Minister writes that he sees a role for the Netherlands as one of the six founders in the necessary strengthening of the Union. Could the Minister explain exactly how the cabinet sees this role and why the fact that the Netherlands is one of the founders is important in this regard? Can the Minister comment on what measures could be taken to strengthen transparency and democracy in Europe? Mr. Chairman. One last topic. The Minister writes in his letter about the progress of the migration pact and the commitment of the Netherlands to this issue. This is an important subject for my group. Dealing with refugees has everything to do with supporting peace and security, even outside Europe. My group's impression is that little progress has been made on the migration pact. Is that also the Minister's impression? What is this and what could be a solution? In listing the government's commitment, there is talk of better screening and registration at EU external borders, and of strengthening these borders. "70% of the citizens questioned support this," the Minister adds. Apart from the subject: who are these interviewed citizens? Why were they questioned and on what basis do they base their judgment? And why does the Minister think it is important to add this phrase? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's commitment is about stronger borders and an EU-coordinated approach towards third countries, to counter the flow of refugees. My group would like to hear more about the Dutch commitment to the refugee camps on the borders of Europe just outside or just inside where displaced people live in hopeless and very bad conditions. What is the Dutch commitment to make these camps more human and family friendly and to give the residents a view of a future outside the camp? Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with the Minister's remark about a turning point in history. In his 2018 book Grand Hotel Europa, Ilja Pfeijffer wrote about a Europe that has nothing more to offer the world than its history. A continent that is in danger of being only interesting to tourists. In a recent interview in Het Financieele Dagblad he says: "Europe has arrived in history at a time when it has to redefine itself." You can assign many different meanings to the word "redefined." My group therefore does not say that word to him. However, with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, my group has once again seen the need for us to reflect on a united, strong European Union. We also have a taste of this attitude in the cabinet. My group appreciates that. I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u26	I have one question for Mr Huizinga-Heringa, in relation to Poland. You spoke about that, too. Do you agree with me that if, despite all the efforts, the Dutch Government fails to come up with something else in relation to Poland, it should vote against the European Commission's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u27	You mean the decision to pay out those funds from the Corona Aid Fund, right? I see you nodding. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to my questions on this subject, but I have to say that we have very serious doubts as to whether this is the right attitude towards Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u28	As a follow-up, then. I have listened with great pleasure to your contribution. I also see a certain change in the position of the Christian Union vis-à-vis the European Union, in which you expect more central guidance. You are in favour of a stronger European Union, but of course it is very important that the basis is good and is in order, namely the rule of law and the protection of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u29	That is also what I have tried to say in my contribution, and that both are important. Anyway, I'm not gonna repeat my contribution. You understand. I'd like to hear from the Minister. The President of the Commission has said: we have made agreements with Poland and I think they are good agreements. I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at these appointments, whether he thinks they are indeed sufficient. If there is any doubt about this in the cabinet, then I think that at some point it is indeed necessary to say: then we cannot agree to the granting of this corona support. But I'd like to wait and see the Minister's answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u30	I would like to put a question to Mrs Huizinga about her comment on the conference on the future of Europe. She said in her contribution: of course we must strive to strengthen democratic legitimacy, but the way that has happened now is a bad way. The way in which the representativeness of the citizens questioned was determined led, in her view, to a limited value, in the words of Mrs Huizinga. There is a great deal of reference in the State of the Union to the results of these civil panels in Europe. In fact, you could say, very briefly: the government takes all this very seriously, but then says: we are actually doing what the citizens want us to do. That makes you wonder if what was taken out of those civilian panels is not, in the end, just a reflection of what the government wants. Or at least the interpretation of what was taken out of those civilian panels isn't. My question to Mrs Huizinga is therefore: does she think that continuing a method of working through civil panels is a good thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u31	I have indicated in my contribution that I welcome the desire to involve citizens back in Europe and to hear what the citizens think about it, and appreciate the European Union. But I don't think we can take the results of these panels too seriously. Exactly what you said: such polls tend to get everyone out of it what suits them and say: 'Look, the citizens of Europe agree with us; we have to do this or that'. I have the impression that this is what is happening with this conference. Hence my critical remarks. But the fact that more participation is sought, more contact with the citizen, I am very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you. Then I'll give you... Oh, excuse me. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you to Mrs Huizinga for her fine speech. I agree with many of the things Mrs Huizinga said in her first term, and also with regard to the conference on the future of Europe. But I had another question. Mrs Huizinga referred to the search, including by her group and by her party, for the balance between the two sides of industry, if I recall her words well, the effectiveness of European decision-making on the one hand and the preservation of sovereignty on the other. I don't know if those were her literal words, but something like that I remember. I was wondering if Mrs Huizing could go into that a little further. As I understand it, it's a quest and a struggle, and maybe thinking about it shifts a little bit. I understand that, but perhaps Mr Huizinga can be a little more specific. Then what are you going to do in your search? How do you like that balance? That may not be easy. Take, for example, the debate on whether or not to abolish the veto in certain areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mrs Huizinga, on the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u35	What I said. That is exactly what it is: how do we find a good balance between the power of Brussels and the sovereignty of the national Member States? The abolition of the right of veto is one of those things. Let me give you a very small example. We talked about the Social Climate Fund. It proposes to provide income support for European citizens. How far do we go? Do we think that goes too far, or do we think that's acceptable? So you always come to points where you think: how do we weigh that subsidiarity? I invite the Minister to give an account of this and to deal with the question of how the cabinet looks at it and what this relationship should be like in the cabinet. If I am completely honest, it seems more interesting to me at this moment than to say something about the search for the Christian Union. We are working on this and we find it difficult to see how the power of Brussels can be properly shaped on the one hand and the sovereignty of the Member States on the other. That's what we're thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you. Mr Van Apeldoorn briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u37	Yeah, short. I would like to endorse that invitation to the Minister. I'm very curious about that, too. I see the dilemma myself, but I also see the danger of a slippery plane. But I am also interested in the thinking of the Christian Union. I have one more question about that. Mrs Huizinga also mentioned the strengthening of the Common Foreign and Security Policy. You could, for example, strengthen that by abolishing the veto. There's a lot of discussion about that right now. In my contribution to the Minister, I asked whether the danger of undermining the legitimacy of decision-making would be that there would be no consensus, or, for example, smaller countries would be structurally overruled by larger countries. How does Mrs Huizinga view the risks identified by me in my contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u38	Finally, Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u39	That is exactly one of the questions we have. When you raised these questions, I nodded internally and I thought: yes, that is really a problem for which you have to find a solution. I'm talking about a lot of hooks and eyes. This is one of those many hooks and eyes. But again, the direction is clear for us. Only, how do you achieve that and how do you find a good balance; that is our quest. Once again, I hope that the Minister will go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten. She speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the fall of the Wall and democratic development in the countries of the former Warsaw Pact, we were sure: the world had changed; relaxation, peace and justice. With the former Warsaw Pact countries, we then started to work on the membership of the European Union which they wanted so much and, if possible, NATO membership. The enlargement to include ten Member States in 2004 was not easy. Great efforts were required, both from the candidates and from the European Union, which helped with a lot of money with the so-called pre-accession. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about a European continent in which the assurances that were then built up in 1990 are destroyed by this inhuman and cruel war started by Russia. It has already been said by colleagues. There is now a war on the flanks of the European Union, a war that drives citizens out of their homes in Ukraine and completely destroys cities, villages and infrastructure. This war has implications for both European and global security and the international legal order. Mr. Chairman. We have provided a great deal of support from the Netherlands to Ukraine. My fellow Members in the Council of Europe say that they are very grateful for that. We are now sympathetic to the intransigence of the Ukrainian people. While there was still a great deal of doubt earlier in the referendum on the Association Agreement as to whether Ukraine would ever join, almost two thirds of those questioned now say in a One-Today survey that they believe Ukraine should become a member. That is, by the way, if the requirements are met. The question of membership, or rather, about giving Ukraine a European perspective, is coming very quickly, this summer, towards the government. This is followed by applications from Georgia and Moldova, which have also been forwarded to the European Commission. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group does not reject Ukraine's membership, but is very concerned about the commitments made by the President of the Commission on speeding up the accession process. Providing the European perspective is important, but candidate Ukraine will also have to meet all the Copenhagen criteria. Rule of law should be fine. We in the CDA Group are convinced that commitments on a shortened process of accession will only lead to disappointments. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Adding Georgia and Moldova to the list of candidates also raises the question: how far does the European Union go? But even more important is the question of what the EU can do. Is it sufficiently aware that, with the countries already in the waiting room for accession, there will soon be a completely different EU? At the very least, the process of governance and decision-making will have to be adapted to that. There will therefore have to be deepening and enlargement. Moreover, I understand that the French President had a new status for these countries. I'd like a response from the Minister. In this context, I have a question about enlargement with Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Albania. They are all candidate countries now. They are countries with a large umfeld and therefore also with many problems. There is a special report from the Court of Auditors. The questions have been answered. I would like a response from the Minister to that. What's gonna happen to those potential candidates now? I also include Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. I have two more questions about the Council of Europe. Kosovo wants to join. What is the commitment of the Netherlands? The second question concerns Turkey. Turkey is already a member of the Council of Europe, but does not implement ECHR judgments. Among other things, I mention the Osman Kavala case. This could mean that a procedure against Turkey is to be carried out in a shorter period, including in the Council of Europe. What is the attitude of the Netherlands in this regard? Mr. Chairman. The State of the Union as presented by this Minister for Foreign Affairs is complete and also, to the great pleasure of the CDA Senate Group, breathes a pro-European atmosphere. This applies not only to the CDA Senate Group. The present Parliamentary Group also has this positivity. Mr. Chairman. There are three themes that I would like to address in greater depth. These include the Conference on the Future and the Strategic Compass. These are subjects that are closely interwoven. These are subjects that also fit in a world in which international relations have changed dramatically, but have also been hardened. More than ever, we in the European Union are dependent on ourselves. That was well expressed in the state of the Union: the EU must be a strong and capable geopolitical player rather than a playing field. So: more effective, economically stronger, safer and greener. The Netherlands wants to play a leading role in a Union, which is also strong because it has changed the foundations of democracy and the rule of law. But not every EU Member has a "can I put it this carefully"? After membership, an appropriate relationship with the rule of law. Poland and Hungary do not meet the criteria of a rule of law in which the law is applied independently and impartially. It is a shame that in Hungary the current leadership has for years secured its power with European money. To do something about that, we have this rule of law. But is it going to be implemented, we wonder, or is it going to be handed over to allow a compromise on a boycott of Russian gas? I wonder, however, whether the name change of the Court of Cassation in Poland is sufficient guarantee for the restoration of the rule of law in that country, as recently reported by the President of the Commission in Poland. I'd like a response from the Minister who can take away our concerns. Mr. Chairman. It is a coincidence, and yes, the preparations had been started for a long time, but the Strategic Compass on better cooperation in the field of defence comes at a more than ever desired time. I would also like to pay tribute from this point of view to the interim Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Knapen, who managed to get this sensitive dossier in the Netherlands. There is more than ever the need to make the Union stronger and more effective in the field of defence and security over the next five to ten years. I would like to say that, without the unrest on the eastern flank of the Union, cooperation in the defence field could never be achieved as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. I also see a renewed commitment to cooperation between the EU and NATO. In any case, this will lead to an increase in defence expenditure in all Member States. The proposals of the compass are wholeheartedly supported by the CDA Group. Mr. Chairman. I started with defence and security, but EU foreign policy is also in urgent need of reform. If the EU also wants to be a geopolitical bloc, the block of law and values, and that also wants to live up to in external action, then we need to reform. We cannot deliver on the international playing field if the unanimity requirement boycotts the unity of action. We just have to get rid of that. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, all CFSP decisions must be taken by qualified majority. You don't need a treaty change for that. You can do that by using the passerelles. The deepening that I spoke about earlier and which must precede EU enlargement also brings me to the conference on the future. The organisation of this conference was not strong; it was too late, unclear about the roles, three co-chairs and then the national parliaments as the fourth party in the side car. And then the citizens because that was what it was meant to be, bottom-up, but they were not all equally informed and often "used" by the best streamlined organisation, which I know very well, and for which I very much appreciate, and that is the European Parliament. These civil dialogues were necessary to restore or restore confidence in Europe, it is written. I am sad to note that this applies not only to Europe, but also to the policy of the Hague in general, to the lack of confidence. And then you ask yourself, what does the average citizen of Europe know? Geert Mak has done something with My father's century and later with great expectations. That is also filmed, well documented and made known to the public. But the question is: what is the government doing or what is the government going to do about the lack of knowledge about Europe? We have received two motions, by Mr Koole and Mr Backer; the motion to ask the SCP to recalibrate the benefits. Mr Koole asked me to come up with real research into how to make the EU more visible in all aspects of cooperation. I ask the Minister if he has any ideas about this, but he should. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group welcomes the proposals to adapt the EU's decision-making instruments. In a resolution, the European Parliament called for a convention to prepare for the amendment of the Convention. First of all, there is the desire to abolish unanimity in the overall decision-making process. And I think you should see now that about 90% of all decisions at EU level can already be taken by qualified majority, such as on migration, climate and energy security. What you should do is to use the passerelles in realising that 5% in the field of foreign and defence policy. Then they still have the desire to come up with transnational lists. We don't need a treaty change for that either, because we can do it now. Also for the system of spitzencandidates, you don't need a treaty change. For the CDA Group, unanimity should in any case be maintained in the case of enlargement, the accession of new members and also in the case of amendments to the Treaty, because we believe that these are important proposals. In short, we would like to pass on the following to the Minister. If that convention has to be done, do it, but do it to see how you can use those passerelles for that 5%. If that's why you're setting up that convention, with a timetable, that's fine with us. Then you can see later whether the conviction is also there to reach a qualified majority by unanimity decisions. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, on behalf of the group, I would like to say that of all the things that are now on the list of wishes, the issues that serve the interests of citizens in the EU must be at the forefront of our efforts to implement the wish package. I would like to mention the desired health union. I also mention cross-border traffic. I often see that the citizen who lives in one country and works in another country gets in trouble when it costs money. This applies not only to the Tozo scheme for self-employed workers, but also to home-working frontier workers. Mr President, this is my final point. It is interesting that the State of the Union states that cooperation with Spain has been sought on the dossier of possible changes to the Stability and Growth Pact. I wonder what changes you're thinking of. If, for example, with higher interest rates, the differences in interest rates between the core and the rest of the zone increase, what will happen? What adaptation is the Netherlands prepared to do, I ask this Minister. This also applies to tax proposals within the EU, as there is still a requirement for unanimity. That could have unwanted consequences. This recently turned out to be the case when Poland vetoed the proposal to introduce a minimum profit tax in the EU. One Member State then imposes its will on 26 other Member States. There too, we must look at the veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u43	This is the first interruption in this somewhat unusual setting of the Chamber; for my part, excuse me. I just heard Mrs Oomen say that interest is rising. This, of course, raises problems with southern Europe, where interest rates on Italian public debt are extremely high. That government debt goes towards the 180% and becomes priceless very quickly. The risk of a transfer union being messed up is enormous, isn't it? How does the CDA see that, I ask Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u44	I don't like the word "mess." We have a Growth and Stability Pact. I read in the State of the Union that there are talks about adapting that Growth and Stability Pact. I would just like to put the question: if this rising interest rate creates more problems between the core of Europe and a number of Member States, what are we going to do? I'll put that question to the Minister. So I'm not messing around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u45	What is the solution, then, according to Mrs Oomen? Because there are actually only two possible solutions. That is either that certain countries leave the euro area and all debts are thrown into a pot, which has always been done so far, or that you are being messed around in that collective debt in a very opaque way. What would you prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u46	I would like to put that question to the Minister, who, in my opinion, can give a sensible answer from his old policy area. That's one. Two. I don't like the word "mess." I don't like that. What will not happen is that countries should be expelled from economic and monetary union. That didn't happen to Greece. That didn't happen anywhere, so it won't. I think a way will have to be found to help the countries that are in trouble. That has happened to Greece, and I think that will happen to some of the southern Member States as well. That would be my wish, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u48	I have two questions, briefly. One concerns Ukraine's possible accession to the European Union. Mrs Oomen says that she is opposed to President von der Leyen's proposal to speed up the process. I can still understand that. But is Mrs Oomen at all against sending out the signal that Ukraine could be granted candidate status? Even so, after so many years, Ukraine will have to meet all its obligations, but you could send out the signal at the moment. My second question is again about the conference on the future of Europe. Mrs Oomen says in so many words that it has really failed in some respects. Geert Mak is cited. Does Mrs Oomen agree with me that the government should do much more? And I mean not only the collection of information from citizens and panels, but much more the balanced provision of information to citizens and because in the coming years there will be a lot more active in maintaining the public's support for politics in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you. Your question is clear. Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u50	I repeat what I said when I started, that the CDA Group is not opposed to a candidate for membership of Ukraine. But I did make a condition. Before being a member, we will have to work on the rule of law. All Copenhagen criteria will have to be filled in. I have criticized the five-year period. I don't think you can say that. Secondly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr President, perhaps on this point. Is the CDA against sending a signal now to grant the application status?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u52	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u53	Okay, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u54	I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u55	Then there is Mr Koole's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u56	The second question. I have just said that more needs to be done to bring to light positive and negative elements that certainly belong to Europe. I mentioned the motions adopted by this Chamber. One motion on the SGP has been worked on. Your motion is very economical and very late. So I'm gonna ask the Minister what he's gonna do to change things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mrs Oomen says that the CDA is not against Ukraine's candidate status, but that the criteria must be met. But is Ukraine currently meeting the criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u58	No, the moment you become a candidate, you don't have to meet the criteria. That is what happens in the negotiations afterwards. So anything that comes after accession. Then you need to see which chapters are being met. They are something of 25 chapters, in which it is settled in which areas you have to do what. But that's not gonna happen until after.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u59	Have I understood correctly to Mrs Oomen that she only wants to maintain unanimity on treaty changes and accessions? This means that in future it will also decide by qualified majority in the area of tax legislation and own resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u60	What I have said is that there are also very undesirable consequences in the field of taxation from the pronounced Polish veto on the introduction of a minimum profit tax. Well, you need to get rid of that. If that is the only way to achieve unanimity, then that really needs to be looked at. In any case, where unanimity must be maintained, it may well be in more areas, but in any case in this area, membership of the club is only possible. Because you will not become a member of a golf club; you will become a member of the European Union. And there are serious demands to be made. So that's where you need unanimity. For a treaty change, that's the same thing. You have to be unanimous about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u61	Thank you. I see that Mr Van Rooijen has another comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u62	Two points. Firstly, in conjunction with Mr Van Ballekom, taxation. Surely you cannot say, because of the incidents about the minimum profit tax by a Polish temporary veto, that we should get rid of this tax veto, about the sovereignty of fiscal matters which we uphold and which my group believes should remain. That's obvious. My question is this. Mrs Oomen referred to the candidate countries and also mentioned Serbia. In view of the developments in Serbia and the whole relationship or connection with Russia, does the CDA Group think that we should continue along this path? I welcome the view of the CDA Group on Ukraine that the start of their candidacy should be possible, but is it not very cynical and cruel to note that we continue to talk about the admission of Serbia, for example? I think that is a separate point, because once they are members and remain connected, even after Putin, which is not excluded, they will not be able to get out and we will have a second big problem after Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u63	This is a like-dan discussion. Serbia is a candidate and is being negotiated with Serbia. I really cannot imagine that if Serbia chooses position as it is currently doing, Serbia would become a member. That's a trade-off coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u64	I still had a question about the possible granting of candidate membership to Ukraine. Candidate-member does not mean that you become a member, because negotiations are going to take place and ultimately the outcome could be that Ukraine does not meet the conditions. It is indeed important to make that distinction. Yet you normally do that, assigning a candidate membership to a country, if you are confident that the country will be able to take those steps within a period of time. My question to Mrs Oomen is how long that deadline would be for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u65	A clear question. Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u66	I don't know, and I can't tell. I shouldn't want to establish that either. When Ukraine is given a European perspective, negotiations are taking place with that country. But can you imagine negotiating with a country at war? No, that's not gonna happen. They are going to negotiate when Ukraine is stable again. After achieving that stability we will see which chapters one can open and close, what one meets and what one does not meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u67	May I ask if you could finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u68	I have a brief follow-up comment to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u69	I'm gonna take a look at the clock, too. Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'll be very brief. Take the case of Turkey. Turkey has been a candidate country for 23 years. Macron has said that it might take Ukraine three decades before we are finished. Hence my question, because I have previously heard the position of the Dutch Government through the Prime Minister. In my view, it had hesitations, even in granting candidate status to Ukraine, precisely because the country is still at war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u71	I didn't say otherwise. So I confirm what you're saying. Moreover, Turkey is not being negotiated at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u72	Okay. Then I'd like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. EU environmental taxes can now be decided on the basis of a qualified majority under Article 192. It would be easier to introduce EU environmental taxes. However, the proposal for the EU's new own resources does not make a move towards an EU environmental tax of its own, but rather towards a Member State contribution. We wonder what you should do with that. Finally, Mr President. I would like to be a proud Dutchman in a well-functioning Europe, but I also often see unnecessary irritation because laws and/or European rules in the Netherlands are being taken up more strictly than necessary. We are responsible for many of those irritations ourselves. When it comes to problems with the implementation of European rules, consultation with Brussels is also a way of finding solutions, but this means that we must be prepared to do so. Thank you, Mr President, and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you very much. As announced, there is the suspension for lunch at around 12.30 am. We will continue at 1.30 p.m. the meeting with the hammer pieces and the continuation of the first term of office on this subject, the State of the Union. I can tell you that the sitting will be continued in plenary. I hope the technique doesn't leave us anymore. Thank you for your flexibility this morning. I'm suspending the meeting.
