ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u1	The issue is now the reopening of the debate following the declaration of government. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber. The Chamber granted leave this afternoon for a short third term. I give the floor to Mrs Faber, who has applied for this third term. I would like to draw Members' attention to the two-minute speaking time available for each speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seemed for a moment that the Minister of Finance had to get the hot coal out of the fire today. It was in fact the Ministry of General Affairs that the letter with the questions about the implementation of the adopted motions was agilely forwarded to the Ministry of Finance, so that it ended up on the plate of Minister Kaag. But, honestly, it looks like the Prime Minister has come to his senses while he is in the Senate. And while he's doing so well, it may be that the Prime Minister is also going to announce that the motions are being carried out. So colleagues, grab your chance tonight! Mr. Chairman. Then there are the motions that have been passed. The motions of the other parties I leave to the other spokesmen. I will only highlight the first PVV motion, with the request not to decouple the AOW benefit from the minimum wage. The PVV doesn't leave the elderly in the cold. They deserve a carefree old age and they deserve clarity about it. The Minister writes in her letter that the cabinet has discouraged the motion because there is no proposal for cover in the motion. Next comes a story about attention, integral weighting, regular decision-making, etc. That's all professional jargon to put things on the back burner. Delays are often delayed. However, it is simply a matter of priority. The money can't be an excuse. There is 60 billion for a politically created problem of nitrogen and climate. The question is how seriously you can take that alleged problem if, despite the fact that, according to the Timmermans of our time, we were on the verge of a climate catastrophe, we could transfer 680 million from the SDE pot to general resources and coal is also an option. Furthermore, I can think of a few billion more. And then there would be no euros for our elderly people, who have been lagging behind for years? You don't believe that, do you? Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group will not abandon our elders. We will not be sent into the woods with nice talk. The PVV therefore strongly asks us to carry out our AOW motion. To emphasise this, I shall table the next motion on behalf of my group. For the record, I am forced to table this motion now, because I only have this deadline. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Bezaan and Mr Ton van Kesteren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has ruled that the motion adopted by the Chamber does not wish to decouple the AOW benefit from the minimum wage, so that the increase in the minimum wage also increases the AOW benefit to an equal extent;]] [[expresses confidence in the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u3	In the event that the Minister still undertakes to carry out the motion, I will be happy to withdraw the motion. The PVV Group looks forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I shall look at Mr Rosenmöller to see if he wishes to speak. That's the case. I shall also give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Those who listened this afternoon to the demonstration of youth care workers at the Malieveld had a great urgency there to provide vulnerable young people in a prosperous country with the care that a prosperous country should offer. Those who listen to their ears in local authorities hear the same urgency to reform the youth care system, aimed at providing good care for vulnerable young people. When I received the letter last Friday, signed by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the cabinet, I thought: what a stark contrast. There was no sense of urgency in this area. It seems that the cabinet is leaving the ongoing talks, all of which have been stopped, on the reform of youth services in progress and is postponing everything until the debate on the Spring Note in June or later. The consultation with the VNG, which is still in the field of youth care, does not seem to impress the cabinet either. It doesn't do a first hand hand in a form of recovery in that area. We found that extremely disappointing. I honestly believe that the cabinet, when I look only at that letter, is not aware of the seriousness of the situation. Let me say that according to this Chamber, that is to say, according to the majority of the Chamber, it is serious in this area. It may be that we are a chambre de réflexion, but we are not a quantum négligeable. I'd like to tell the cabinet that anyway. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, I would like to make the following motion, with all due understanding for the fact that perhaps a little more thought should be given in time, on behalf of a number of colleagues, whom I will mention. The: Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Nanninga, Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Janssen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Dessing, Mr Otten, Mr Schalk, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in its letter of 11 March last, the Cabinet indicated that, inter alia, the motion adopted on the reform of youth services (35788, paragraph F) would be further informed to the Chamber of the Spring paper;]] [[Considers that in the forthcoming college negotiations in the municipalities there should be clarity on the future financing of youth care and that proposals in the spring note are too late for that;]] [[also considers it undesirable that discussions on the reform of the youth care system should continue to be suspended and that cooperation between the UNG and the cabinet on future youth care has been suspended;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to inform the Chamber of how it intends to implement the adopted motion (35788, letter F) by 15 April at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u6	I think Mr Rosenmöller's ambition and his concern for youth care is very commendable, but I have here a motion on the AOW, which has been co-signed by Mr Rosenmöller. It was a JA21 motion. JA21 is not here in the Chamber right now to defend his own motion. That's a bit of a missed opportunity. Anyway, that aside. It is a motion against the decoupling of the AOW. Then, after all, my question to Mr Rosenmöller is: will you also be so hard on our elderly people, as you do for youth care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u7	I'm glad you're giving me this opportunity. I have indeed limited myself to the issue of youth care. Thanks for the question. The answer to that question is yes. I think that I agree with Mr Van Rooijen's contribution in this respect, as well as with other colleagues who are going to say something else when it comes to linking the AOW and the minimum wage. The reaction of the cabinet was about four motions: Mr Schalk's motion on child benefit, your motion, Mr Van Rooijen's motion, Mrs Nanninga's and the JA21's group on the AOW, and Mrs Vos's motion on unlucky students. We all think they're important. Why I have just emphasised this point is, on the one hand, because it was a key point in my contribution to the debate on the declaration of government and, on the other hand, because the timing here is slightly different from the other motions, as will be evident in the course of this debate. After tomorrow, the college negotiations begin. Of course, the Cabinet knows that too. We know that with each other. Then you cannot put the issue of youth care and the austerity introduced by the cabinet on a long leash. The parties in the municipality need that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u8	I understand the part about the timing of youth care, but one doesn't rule out the other. So my question to you, through the President, is: do you remain on the view that you are opposed to the decoupling of the AOW and the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u9	Oh, yeah. So if there are any motions that say that, contrary to what the cabinet tells us, it would be better to clarify more quickly, among other things, the issue of the AOW and the linking of the minimum wage, then we are in favour of it. What we are not in favour of is that it will be evident during the evening, but let me also say that it is now a motion of censure towards the cabinet on this point. We are not in favour of that. I can explain all this further, but I do not think it is necessary at this stage of the debate. We are primarily concerned with achieving something for old and young people, for all those who are served in those motions. That motivates us to stand here now, fortunately with a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mrs Jorritsma has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u11	Mr President, what I am saying is also on behalf of the CDA. I would like to urge this opportunity coalition of opposition parties, so far led by GroenLinks, not to continue this debate inspired by the local elections. The cabinet has sent a neat letter of procedure. In this Chamber, at the end of the journey, we will discuss the legislative proposals that follow from the coalition agreement and the subsequent declaration of government after they have been accepted into the Lower House. The government has known since the examination of the declaration of government in the Lower House, where motions have been rejected with only the coalition votes against, that it has been instructed to submit legislative proposals that can count on broader support than that of the coalition alone. In the opinion of the VVD, motions of the same spirit submitted and naturally accepted in this Chamber do not in any way strengthen the Upper Chamber, but rather weaken it. In this context, may I refer to the contribution of D66 to the debate on the declaration of government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u12	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I will see if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the Nanninga Group. That is not the case. Mrs Jorritsma spoke on behalf of the CDA. Then I'll be with the Labour Party, with Mrs. Vos. Mrs Vos wishes to speak and now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I shall also speak briefly. When I read last Friday's letter, I thought, "Is this all?" I looked a little further, but this is it. I also saw a repeat of the motions we already knew. I found it disappointing. I welcome the fact that we are still discussing this, because we really hope that this Chamber too will be taken a little more seriously, because the Chamber on the other side has said it, and I too have said it to the Prime Minister: it can count. The motion on compensation for the loan system is very simple. It was signed by a majority of this Chamber. In the operative part, I said that three months after the motion was tabled, we would like a letter on how the government is going to implement it. It's about May 15th, so we've got plenty of time. I am fine with getting it at the same time as the Spring Note. So you'll have some time there. But we are asking for a serious outcome of that motion. Let that be clear. Our group also supports Mr Rosenmöller's speech, and indeed the majority of this Chamber, on youth care. Why? It's just that it's important that tonight, the night before the last day of the municipal elections... I don't know if you've read Sheila Sitalsing's column today? It's very important work that our city council members do. We have actually sent them out over the past few years with far too little money. They are always taunting, and that is why we wholeheartedly support the argument that, before the negotiations on the coalitions begin, the councils should be clear about what they can spend on youth care. It's necessary, too. It would be best if the Finance Minister at least gave us a commitment that there would also be enough money for youth care, but certainly also for all those who are locally doing their stinking best for our communities. Let's just make their work possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Mrs Bredenoord has the floor on behalf of D66. Mrs Bredenoord does not wish to speak. The Christian Union is not present. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I will confine myself to two subjects: youth care and the linking of the AOW. I'm gonna talk about social services first. As a deputy, I was allowed to have child care in my wallet. I can tell you it's a wallet that stays with you. You carry them with you for the rest of your life if you take all the stories of all the young people. Children or young people aged 15 to 16 are in their seventh or eighth placement. If you see how every professional is doing that in a good way... I also know how complicated it was when it was handed over to the municipalities with a cut in 2015. I have also seen and followed the struggle that had resulted from it since then. If I see how things are still... Yes, there are municipal elections and their effects will become apparent in the coalition agreements that need to be concluded. They will also have to be able to manage funding for youth care in a good way. They need that certainty. That cannot wait until the summer or until the summer decision. They need to know now: how am I going to ensure that we can do what is necessary in the next four years for the care of young people. 'Cause it's really necessary. That certainty is needed. That is why I wholeheartedly supported the motion tabled by Mr Rosenmöller. The same applies to Mr Van Rooijen's motion on the timetable for linking the AOW. As far as we are concerned, that certainty may well come a little later. Not all of this is necessary today, but until summer or after summer we find too long. That is why we are submitting these motions. We therefore very much hope that it will also be seen in substance that this is now really necessary, especially in the area of youth care, because that clarity is needed for all those professionals and for all those young people who are waiting for certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u16	Mr Janssen points out that it is possible to wait for that certainty to be given about the AOW link, but you must be aware that the elderly have been lagging behind for years. Now they are confronted with something again: their AOW is not going to get the minimum wage. It's enough for once, isn't it? These elderly people, who have worked their whole lives, are simply put in the cold. We've filed a motion. Several motions have been tabled. You also signed a motion. We are not going to table motions to get them finally adopted and then not to do anything with it and send us into the woods with our adopted motion? Why do we not now take the view that there should be a ruling on the linking of the AOW? I understand your point about child care, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u17	Your question is clear, Mrs Faber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u18	Mr Faber knows, as I have told her, that I am not saying that nothing needs to happen with these motions on the AOW. The question is whether something should happen to that tonight. Should something happen to it in a week, or can it be done shortly after the recess? My proposal was that, in view of the coalition formation in the municipal councils from the day after tomorrow, it should be clear before 15 April, so that they can work with it, and that shortly after the recess of the cabinet we should hear what will happen to the AOW. You're asking me if it doesn't matter to me. So I think it's very important. If you've followed everything, you'll also know that we think it's very important. But that doesn't mean everything has to be arranged tonight. On that point, I say that if we are now promised that we will know by 15 April how the motion on youth care will be implemented, and if we hear in mid-May or early May, after the recess, how the motion on the AOW will be implemented, we will be able to live with it and we will not have to deal with it all tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u19	Mr. Janssen says he thinks it's so important, but he doesn't seem to think it's important enough to get it done tonight. We can just take care of it now. If we want and we keep the ranks closed, we can just settle it now. If we want and if we don't have weak knees, we can now arrange for all these motions to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u20	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u21	But apparently this room is too weak. And Mr Janssen, too. For Mr Janssen is only talking about youth care. That's fine, too. But about the AOW: you leave all the elderly in the cold. You can say "I think it's important," but eventually...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u22	Mrs Faber, do you have a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u23	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u25	Yes, Mr President, but if I get blamed by weak knees, I'd like to respond to that. I just said what I said about it. I'll leave Mrs Faber's entire rhetoric on her behalf. We want it taken care of. We want it taken care of quickly. We think the summer is too late, too. We think the spring note is too late. So for that time it has to be clear: not packed in the entire Spring note, but just clear on these two points. That's what we asked for. That means that we think it is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u26	Thank you. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The Group of the Forum for Democracy is in favour of maintaining the link between the AOW and the minimum wage. Both young and old are entitled to a good financial safety net. Nevertheless, we voted against motions D, E and G because of the lack of financial coverage of these motions. This is an essential point for our group, because it is a great deal of money. But now that the motions have been adopted, a different situation has arisen. The government must now proceed with the implementation of these motions. This is how democracy works, says Forum for Democracy. To find cover for these motions, as far as we are concerned, there are choices in terms of austerity. One: immigration. Two: nitrogen and climate. Three: on the EU, which is channeling our money to Italy, our elderly people are more important than the Italian elderly. The Netherlands was a rich country, but used its financial reserves for the corona crisis. Now that there will also be unlimited amounts of money going to nitrogen and climate, it is irresponsible to transfer this ever-increasing account to future generations, especially at this time of increasing inflation. The Government's response is too non-binding as far as our group is concerned. Rather than the Spring Paper, it is necessary to clarify how the government intends to finance the maintenance of the link. Our group is looking forward to the government's further approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u28	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. On behalf of the Animal Party, there is no one present who wishes to speak. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u29	Mr. Chairman. The world seems to be getting more insecure every day. The pandemic is not over yet whether the war in Ukraine is going to shake Europe and the world on its foundations with its senseless violence, deaths, wounded, destruction, enormous flows of refugees. In addition, there is the threat of energy shortages and out-of-control inflation. A lot of people are worried and scared. Then it's important to give people security where they can. The government managed to make economic and financial emergency connections to the pandemic. Then why do we leave our elders in the cold for so long? It is precisely the people who are no longer in a position to repair loss of purchasing power with some extra hours of work or a side job, people who have worked their lives and now look at the government in dependence. Pensions have not been indexed for years. With today's skyrocketing inflation, it's getting even harder. The AOW is decoupled from the planned 7.5% increase in the minimum wage. In three motions by a large majority, the First Chamber has expressly requested that this link be maintained. The government is now asking for a postponement to the Spring Note. While everything for war and disease is rightly taken out of the closet, the elderly must politely wait for the government to come to them. Once again, longer thought and calculation is needed. Once again, there is no guarantee. What are we supposed to do here in this house today? Trust the blue eyes of the cabinet? Tell the people at home they're gonna be okay, because the government's gonna do the math? Looking at the results from the past, that is the worst possible guarantee for the future. Mr. Chairman. For the government, the elderly are a lockpoint. For 50PLUS, the elderly are top priority. We want the debate on this to be decoupled from the Spring paper. I am therefore tabling a motion on behalf of the Nanninga Group. The motion has also been co-signed by a number of other colleagues. The: Members Van Rooijen, Nanninga, Schalk, Mei Li Vos, Otten, Rosenmöller, Janssen, Raven and Koffeman propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its letter of 11 March last, the Cabinet indicated that, inter alia, on the motions adopted on the linking of the AOW to the planned increase in the minimum wage (35788, letter D; 35788, letter E; 35788, letter G) the Chamber was further informed of the Spring Note;]] [[invites the Cabinet to inform the Chamber of how it intends to implement these adopted motions by 9 May next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u30	Thank you, Mr President. During the debate on the declaration of government, I gave a book to the Prime Minister entitled 'The boy, the mole, the fox and the horse'. I hope the Prime Minister remembers that. I looked before tonight's debate to see if there was another wise lesson in it. I'll let the boy talk. He says, "I was wondering if there's a school where you can unlearn." That's a good question. It can be useful to learn something, especially if the situation changes. If you stay in the same mode, it's time to go to that school. Then it's time to learn that it doesn't help if you keep repeating what you can say when you're in charge. I refer to the bill on the non-indexation of the basic child benefit amount. We can't and we don't want to do that to families. That's why we've been asked to rescind the bill. The government's reaction to include it in the Spring Paper is that old reflex, and we should actually learn it off, because it does not fit in with the present time frame. This also applies to various other subjects. Okay, it might be around the loan system, but moving on from the problem of youth care just doesn't fit right now. Tomorrow the votes will be counted from the municipal elections. The day after tomorrow the negotiations start there and then we simply need clarity; preferably today, but otherwise in the very short term, so that we can respond to them. That is why my group will support the Rosenmöller motion. How does the government deal with this deep desire of the Chamber, from its new position? Also the non-indexation of the AOW is such a major point. If we see what inflation is doing now, we must not leave our older people in this uncertainty. That is why the SGP also supports the Van Rooijen motion. Is the government coming up with a solution in the short term? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the government specifically: does the government, with all the large funds, really not see any possibility of using some of them for our own population, which will be in a heavy state in the coming period? The war in Ukraine is going to hit us deeply. How do we ensure that we find the good for society together? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u32	Mr. Chairman. Today it was mostly a matter of: does it do it or doesn't it? Is Prime Minister Rutte coming to the First Chamber tonight, or is he still going to the election debate? I woke up with the message in De Telegraaf that he'd be here. Then we heard he wasn't coming, and now he's here. Mr. Chairman. Our group supported all the purchasing power adjustments made by this First Chamber a few weeks ago. This applies both to the AOW link and to youth care. Our group is very pleased that the opposition has made one fist and is a front in this First Chamber. As far as we are concerned, that should have happened a long time ago. We are in an energy crisis, which is quite serious due to the ill-thought-out energy transition plans of the Rutte Cabinets. Unfortunately, this crisis has been further aggravated by the terrible Russian invasion of Ukraine. The purchasing power of millions of Dutch people, young and old, is now getting a lot worse. Minister Jetten already wants to close parts of the Netherlands off the gas, because the gas storage becomes empty. Meanwhile, our brand-new, state-of-the-art coal plants must be shut down from VVD and CDA and we have EUR 1,000 billion of gas in the Groningen soil that we don't use. We want at least 10 billion to the Groningen Compensation Fund as soon as possible to repair the damage quickly and decisively and resume gas extraction. In this way, the energy bill for millions of Dutch people will be affordable again and we will soon be independent of Russian gas. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. As far as our group is concerned, the coverage of the purchasing power correction motions adopted by this First Chamber would not be a problem if this cabinet were to pursue a good policy. We have therefore co-signed the new motions by Mr Van Rooijen for the linking of the AOW and Mr Rosenmöller for youth care. We want the motions adopted here to be carried out. We would like to hear from the cabinet how it is going to implement the motions adopted by this First Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otten. The Independent Senate Group is absent. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Prime Minister and Minister, will you be able to answer directly? You want a ten-minute suspension? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u34	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u35	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to say a few things right now. Maybe I can make a few comments before I come to the motions for a resolution. As I said, the delay on 15 February was also linked to the fact that the motions were not covered. I will say something about that in a moment because of the third term here. Of course, we must realise that these motions have been adopted and thus also express a majority here in the Chamber. They will, of course, also be of interest to the question of whether legislative proposals that would ultimately be able to count on a majority in this House. That is its minimal effect, regardless of the Court's wish to clarify a number of points earlier. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that something has really happened since that declaration of government. That was also noted by a few of you. This concerns the night of 23 to 24 February, where a page in world history has been turned, namely the terrible invasion of Ukraine by Russia. That really has a number of consequences which I would like to draw to the attention of the House before I come to the motions. First of all, of course, that is human suffering. We don't have to convince each other of that; we'll all feel that way. I also saw today that research shows that the Netherlands is very broad-minded and is currently one of the most compassionate countries in Europe when it comes to Russia's aggression in Ukraine. But of course it also leads to questions about our security and defence. The cabinet also has to relate to the adopted Sjoerdsma motion in the Lower House, which, on top of the wishes that are already there about the AOW, youth care and other matters, also asks the cabinet to look for ways to make structural additional investments in defence in this cabinet period. A third fact is that the invasion in Ukraine requires a review of all assumptions about how our economic growth will develop. Tomorrow the Central Planning Office will come up with more scenarios, I understand. I haven't seen them yet, but I don't expect them to be better than last week. Of course you can say in general terms that the economy and the economic forecasts and expectations have become more uncertain. That will, of course, have an impact on the question of how much money we have to spend together in the coming period. I think that, in this context, a careful weighting of all these priorities is very important. In the debate on the declaration of government in the First Chamber, the cabinet listened very carefully to the wishes that exist here, about the AOW, youth care and child benefit or the AKW, but also about the other issues that were involved, such as study funding. We heard them all. Once again, there has been the political wish of a majority of the House of Representatives in respect of Defence. This whole Spring paper and decision-making process has been introduced into the system to make that kind of integral weighting. That is not an invention of Sigrid Kaag, Mark Rutte or this cabinet; we have been doing this for years. In the spring, towards 1 June, we are trying to make an integral weighting of all these priorities. Given the current situation, that is of course even more important. We want to inform this Chamber as soon as that decision is taken. Anyway, of course, everything that has to do with the budget and legislation must also pass the First Chamber. What is more problematic is the fact that no cover has been provided. I listened carefully to whether I received suggestions from the First Chamber for cover at implication. I got that right. I understand that there is a desire in some of this Chamber to remove all the plans the cabinet has in the area of nitrogen and climate, the fund of 60 billion. I am not sure whether this idea, which I believe is echoed by Forum and the Otten Group, can immediately count on a majority in this Chamber, regardless of whether the current coalition is politically willing to commit itself to such a direction. The second option is, I understand, to resume gas extraction and to cover all the problems. That suggestion was made by Mr Otten. I have a political suspicion that it cannot automatically count on the support of a majority in this Chamber. I have also heard from Mr Dessing of the Forum for Democracy that expenditure on the European Union and all expenditure related to a decent migration policy have been cancelled. Once again, apart from the political weighting, these are suggestions made by a part of the First Chamber, but which once again underline that there is in fact no basis whatsoever for the motions adopted in the first term of the Chamber. This does not mean that the cabinet does not take them seriously, because these are political wishes which we have heard very well and which will determine whether these legislative proposals and also those budget proposals are going to make it. What is actually before us is two proposals for acceleration. The first one, from Rosenmöller, I can still understand. He says, "Can't it be before April 15th?" That's awfully tricky. This amounts to 100 million in 2024, rising to 500 million in 2025. This does not immediately affect the start of the new coalition periods in the municipal councils, but it certainly falls between these municipal elections and the next municipal elections. But it is not the case that the municipal groups are immediately confronted with the 100 million ascending to 500 million. Nor is it the case that the cabinet intends to reduce this cut to the municipalities. We want to come up with proposals on how to set up the national youth care system in such a way that it is possible, with these amounts in mind, to shape youth policy properly. Anyway, that motion is there. I'll get back to you on that. Then Van Rooijen says something I really don't understand. He says: you have the Spring note, that's fine, but before 9 May I want to know how you're gonna do with the AOW. There is not even a proposal to increase the minimum wage. There is only one intention in the coalition agreement. No bill has yet been submitted to the House of Representatives. But I have heard very well, Mr Van Rooijen, that there are groups here that, if we come up with an increase in the minimum wage, will again weigh up whether they will support that proposal if there is no link between the increase in the minimum wage to the AOW. I have always found it interesting that the left-wing groups are so enthusiastic about the AOW, because it is, of course, a very debilitating measure, but I will leave it to the political commentators to find something about it. The political will lies in this Chamber, from GroenLinks to the Group-Otten, Forum et cetera to do so. So we just have to relate to that, we want to have a chance to have such a bill finally passed the First Chamber. So I take that very seriously, not only because I like you all very much, but because it's just a political reality that this cabinet doesn't have a majority in this Chamber. In fact, I would like to say that I reject Mrs Faber's motion. I also advise against the other two motions. I have to say that formally. I cannot say, on the basis of Mr Rosenmöller's motion, that we are going to answer this question entirely before 15 April. I think there is a good chance that this motion will be passed, given the large number of signatories. I would like to tell him that, should that motion be adopted, the cabinet will see what it can do before 15 April. I have also heard very well that Mr Rosenmöller says: 'What is still possible in relation to the municipal councils and the negotiations that are going to take place there on the new coalition agreements?' Of course, we are also looking at this, also in connection with the relationship with the VNG, which is very dear to us. But now to give the guarantee that we can answer the how-question, regardless of the wider weighting in the spring note, before April 15th, I can't. I therefore reject the motion in a formal sense, but I do admit that as soon as we see the further development of the discussions with the UNG, but also taking into account the issue of youth care, we will inform the Chamber. With regard to Mr Van Rooijen's motion, I can say that, before 9 May, no, but we hope, of course, to show how we can deal with it in the spring paper. I do not really see how bad it is if that is not 9 May, but 1 June. If you were to do it on 9 May, you would have to find a solution for more than EUR 2.5 billion in structural funds, because that is what you are talking about, namely, a solution for 9 May. This is, of course, a huge item of expenditure, also given economic development, on an AOW-pot that is already worth 40 billion. It is the largest budget line we have in the Netherlands. It is simply not possible to do so before 9 May. That really needs to take place in a broader weighting. Once again, we will, and then we will notify this Chamber of that in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u36	The Prime Minister indicated that he would advise against the motion on the decoupling of the AOW, because there would be no financial coverage. Of course, we can help you with some financial coverage. For example, up to 60 billion is earmarked for the climate fund and the nitrogen fund. The Prime Minister also indicates that we are in a changing world, for example with regard to Ukraine. We can now also see that we are having a food supply problem, for example because of the grain from Ukraine. In the meantime, however, we are going to spend billions here to buy out farmers. Well, that's not convenient either. That is another reason... Mrs Jorritsma, I think I have the floor now. So there is another reason not to spend those billions on that. So I have the next question to the Prime Minister. Those 60 billion don't all have to go to the climate fund and the nitrogen fund, do they? We do not need any euros at all, but well, you think otherwise. But you might be able to pay part of that for the AOW. Then it's like that... Then you will probably come up with: yes, but I am concerned with the Paris Climate Agreement, because that is what we have signed up for. Well, you can just cancel that. That's a matter of writing a note and we're done with it. So there are indeed billions available for the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u37	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u38	Mrs Faber proves my point. It comes up with suggestions for cover which my political assessment is that they do not have a majority in this Chamber, let alone in the House of Representatives, let alone that the coalition that has taken office there is prepared to make these suggestions to its own. That's the problem we have. They are uncovered motions, but they are political signals that I take very seriously. I'm not saying they're uncovered. Find out. No, there's been a signal from the First Chamber: you're gonna raise the minimum wage, then we're gonna have to ask if you're gonna link that to the AOW. That's what we have to relate to. We will try to respond to that in the Spring paper. I am not saying that we are going to solve it in the Spring Paper, but I am saying that we will look at it and that it will have consequences for the question of how the legislative proposal on raising the minimum wage will look like, or its probability here. We're all gonna check that out. I heard it very well. I'm not standing here saying, you know, faint, it's not covered, I'm not taking it seriously. It's not covered, but I'll take it seriously. But Mrs Faber's cover proposals? Sorry, but my assessment is that in this Chamber they can count on a maximum of 15 to 20 seats. That's not 38. Apart from that, the question is whether this coalition wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u39	It is the first time that the Prime Minister has been discouraged by this Chamber. Generally, if he's got something in his head and wants something, he's just gonna go through with it. I think it's just about priorities. Then the Prime Minister says: I cannot touch the climate and nitrogen fund, but in the meantime, for example, there can be 23 billion... Mrs. Jorritsma, please! It's not comical at all, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u40	Mrs Faber, a brief question. You must not be distracted by Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u41	In the meantime, there can be up to 23 billion for a corona fund for the European Union. And now you say to this Chamber: there is no money for our elders for the AOW. You're coming up with a plan to raise the minimum wage. Everyone understands that the AOW will walk with us. You're supposed to just book those charges. If you can't do that, you shouldn't come up with such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u42	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u43	There's no proposal. That's the special thing. That was also noted by Mrs Jorritsma in her term. There is no proposal at all to increase the minimum wage in the Lower House. There is a coalition agreement that is a whole catalogue, a brochure with intentions, but all of which still need to be converted into action. If that would lead to a reduction in the minimum wage, of course, and that is the intention of the House to raise the minimum wage, then this should lead to a legislative proposal, budgetary articles and then the weighting that, although not covered, a majority of the First Chamber says: we want that AOW to go up with it. Mrs Faber says, "Why can't you cover that already?" She is again presenting a proposal which has the support of the Forum, as Mr Dessing has also said, namely the removal of expenditure for the European Union. I believe that everyone following this debate is pleased that the Netherlands is now not alone in the world, with Russia's attack on Ukraine, but that we are embedded in a strong NATO. Therefore, there is the wish of the House of Representatives to further increase defence spending and be embedded in a strong European Union. It won't make you stronger if we accept that proposal. You see again: it is not so easy to agree on the coverage. That's okay. We have a Spring paper for this, in which the cabinet, in conjunction, weighs all these political priorities and comes up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u44	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u45	The Prime Minister states that there is no proposal, but there is a government agreement. That coalition agreement includes the decoupling. So I can conclude: what else is that coalition agreement worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u46	What is your question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u47	My question is, what's it worth? The Prime Minister says that there is a government agreement, but no proposal yet. In other words, I do not know whether or not we are going to do it. What is it? Is the Prime Minister or is he not going to maintain the decoupling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u48	The cabinet's intention is to raise the minimum wage, in accordance with the government agreement. That's what we're gonna come up with proposals for. We have said in the coalition agreement that we are not going to link the increase in the minimum wage to the AOW on a one-off basis. After that, the weather is fully coupled. Of these, a majority in the First Chamber says: we are against this; we want this AOW to be linked to the increase in the minimum wage. We are going to make that proposal as a cabinet. These are elements that we have to consider when drafting that proposal: do we, do we not, what does it mean for the proposal, how do we estimate that in the Upper Chamber, but also in the Lower Chamber, the majorities and minorities are? Apart from that, we also have a Spring note to make. There is also a wish from the Upper House to look at it already at the Spring Note. Now Mr Van Rooijen, in my view, is getting very furious by saying: you have to do it before 9 May. I really don't think that's wise, but I get it if he told you to do it with the spring note. Then I say: "I still understand that politically. I don't know if we can deliver it, but we'll see what we can do with that political wish." I didn't hear any cover. That's not a reproach, but I haven't heard any cover that gets a majority here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u49	The Prime Minister just said it's a one-time thing, and next time we're gonna do it again. I understand now that the Prime Minister says that we are not going to associate the AOW with a structural increase in the minimum wage once, but next time we will. Did you just say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u50	Our intention is to increase the minimum wage by 7.5% and not to let that work in the AOW. Then there is another ratio between the minimum wage and the AOW. Mr Van Rooijen was right to do so last time. That's just a factual situation. This new situation will go on. If there are subsequent developments in the contract wage increase that continue to work in the minimum wage, then they will be reconnected in the AOW. That's how the Cabinet intends to do it. But it does not do this with this one-off increase. Of this, Mr Van Rooijen said: I do not think that is appropriate, because then the AOW will be at a greater distance from the actual minimum wage. I thought he had calculated this going to 65%, I say out of my head. The AOW remains above the welfare standard. I understand that political wish. I am simply saying that this political wish costs a great deal of money. Moreover, it is devel oping, I say politically. Anyway, that could be a political wish from the left. Then, of course, we have to look at it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u51	The Prime Minister says it costs 2.4 billion. However, I would like to point out to him that the elderly discount should be increased by a few hundred euros, precisely because the AOW does not go up. That's $800 million. This will not compensate the poor elderly who do not pay taxes at all. So the 800 million is far too little to compensate anyone who doesn't get that 7.5%. That could add up to a billion dollars. Let me just say that this compensation is going to be 1.5 billion. The AOW would increase by 7.5% by 2.4 billion, but the compensation would cost 1.5 billion. Net costs are therefore not 2.4 billion, but 1 billion. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u52	I learned from Mr Van Rooijen that I should not discuss figures with him, because as former Secretary of State for Finance he is very skilled at this. But the fact is that the cabinet and a majority of the First Chamber are currently politically opposed to linking the AOW to that increase in the statutory minimum wage. It has been said here: we do want to. That is a political wish. Again, we have to look at them in the context of the drafting of the proposals that we have to make in the political and legal sense for raising the minimum wage as well as also because of the desire of the First Chamber to look at this in the context of the spring note. I believe that tonight is the first time that we have asked for this to be brought forward, to be clarified and to be resolved separately on 9 May. Then I say, "I don't think that's reasonable." I did not think that was reasonable in the debate on the declaration of government. I think that is completely unwise now in the context of Ukraine and the huge thumping that is currently being spread worldwide, including on our economic systems. We now really have a very good look at what this means for our financial system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u53	Mr. Van Rooijen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u54	I note that the Prime Minister first mentioned the date of 9 May mentioned in the motion and that he now calls it reasonable, but that aside. I have tabled the motion on behalf of a number of political groups. We want the date of 9 May mentioned in the motion for a resolution, because we want to separate it from it, which is an interesting word in this issue of the Spring paper. We do not want this to fall into the basket of many priorities. We would now like to know from the cabinet whether it is prepared to give the assurance to the elderly that if the minimum wage is increased by 7.5% in structural terms, this also applies to the AOW, as is the case with the assistance. Don't leave the elderly in uncertainty any longer. We want to separate that from the Spring Note. Finally, would you confirm, possibly through the Secretary of State, that if those who do not pay taxes receive compensation for not raising the AOW, this costs an additional nearly one billion extra? As a result, the structural costs of this motion are not 2.4 billion, but only 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u55	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u56	Now my clog breaks. I say this in all friendship with Mr Van Rooijen. He's actually saying he's not gonna come up with cover for his motion. He didn't cover a euro. The cabinet says that we take this motion seriously, but because there is no cover, we have no choice but to look at it in the whole of the issues surrounding the Spring paper. Mr Van Rooijen says: no, you have to look at the motion in isolation; it is separate from the Spring note and I am not giving the beginning of a suggestion on how to cover it. So we have no idea in a moment how this would land in the First Chamber, if we were to allow it to land. I do not think that is politically understandable. I insist that I think it is really more sensible to look at this in the whole of the Spring paper. I say that in all friendship and respect for the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u57	We keep talking about the Spring Note, but it doesn't appear until June. It's a summer note. We're in a crisis situation right now. There's a war in Ukraine. There is a lot of tension and energy prices go through the roof. The cabinet says, "Wait for the spring note." So it's coming in the summer. If your country gets invaded, you're gonna have to act. Then you can't say, "Wait for the spring note." It is now important that the purchasing power, which is also attacked by this situation, be tackled decisively and quickly and that these motions be carried out. I've indicated the cover. It's in the Groningen soil. If you're gonna handle the damage right there, there's another thousand billion. Then we give the Groningers 10 or 20 billion in a fund. They're very good at repairing the damage. That leaves you, like, 980 billion or more. So there's just that cover. It is only a matter of changing priorities now. Why do we have to wait for the spring note? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u58	Joop den Uyl would say: there are two things. Firstly, you are right that purchasing power demands our attention. That is also why the previous cabinet gave birth last year to a package of 3.2 billion in support of the people with an increasing energy bill. Last Friday, the Minister for Finance, as President of the Council of Ministers, also announced that the cabinet would pay another 2.8 billion extra, I say, in order to ensure that the people with the smallest stock exchange and vulnerable middle groups are given the best possible support. Mr Otten is right about that. I also believe that the cabinet is acting on that. Then there is the question of how you are going to look at all this in conjunction. He then comes with a cover which I wonder if would have that support from, I said generously, fifteen or twenty seats. But now Mr. Otten says: do you know what to do? You have to make 100,000 to 200,000 people in Groningen extra vulnerable. This week we have received the advice of the SodM that more gas extraction is really a risk for earthquakes. He says, "You have to ignore that; you just have to start winning more gas." You'll be paying a lot of money for damage recovery. Again, you're running a serious risk that it's too late for that. I think this only has the support of the Otten Group. If we wanted to do that, I could come to the Chamber with Mrs Kaag with such a proposal. But we don't want to. Moreover, this proposal has no support here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u59	I would like to point out to the Prime Minister that a large majority of the Dutch population are in favour of the resumption of gas extraction, provided that the Groningen people are compensated. In fact, even a majority of the inhabitants of Groningen are in favour of this, because we no longer want to be dependent on Russian gas. I can also imagine that, because the Groningers know that they are not compensated by this cabinet. The money for the compensation is in their soil. So they understand very well that if they want that money quickly, gas extraction must be resumed in a controlled manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u60	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u61	I would once again urge the Prime Minister to wait for the summer note, because that is in fact not the good sense of urgency. How's the Prime Minister gonna speed this up? How's he gonna do these motions faster? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u62	What Mr Otten says about Groningen is not true. The residents say: if at some point a security of supply and a safety problem arise, where for example nursing homes in Germany, Belgium or the Netherlands are in the cold in a situation where we are completely closed off from Russian gas, you can also look at the situation in Groningen. That's what Rob Jetten said, and that's what I told him. We're not gonna get extra gas to lower the gas price. In all-, all-- last resort, if there's a security of supply problem, you can't rule out anything. Luckily, that's not the issue right now. Russia needs that money itself. Yesterday, fortunately, Hans Vijlbrief also showed that the expected additional extraction from more than seven was reduced to more than four. I'm so happy about that. Groningen is happy about that, too. So that's the situation around Groningen. Once again, SodM came up with its own report after that investigation. That's not an opinion poll, it's an expert report. It says that additional gas extraction leads to significant additional risks from earthquakes. There are 100,000 to 200,000 people living there. You can't solve that by strengthening or repairing damage. If there are earthquakes that lead to real damage, then we have a very big problem in the Netherlands, which we all do not want. Finally, when it comes to the pot for damage recovery and strengthening, the cabinet has always said that this is not dependent on the financial area. The money we need for this will be there, both for repair and for strengthening. So it's not like we have to pump gas to finance that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u63	One final question, Mr President. In the General Reviews on the coalition agreement, I pointed out that the gas storage was empty. In the meantime, it has also become clear to the cabinet that it is empty and that it needs to be filled, including from the EU. The gas storage is empty because people thought the gas price was too high. Now the gas price is much higher. How are you gonna cover for that? How are you going to fill that gas storage in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u64	The Prime Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u65	These are essential tasks of the cabinet. Our main task is to keep this country safe. Safe also means ensuring that people, for example older people, do not die from the cold. That is so transcending. You heard Rob Jetten say yesterday at Op1, but it was also in his letter to the Chamber that we should take a financial risk with that. There's no other way. From a security of supply issue, it can only be that you fill the gas stores at a financially unfavourable time. Of course, it is more beneficial to do so when the gas price is low, but that is simply not possible now, because you want to have them full in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u66	As a party presenting a menu to the Prime Minister with a number of cover proposals, I note that the Prime Minister took the menu as a whole and prevented us from wanting to delete all expenditure on all points. I heard him say something about the EU, about the climate and about migration. What he did not mention was the problem of nitrogen, or actually the problem of nitrogen created administratively in our view. That seems to me to be part of the menu from which, through selective shopping, you could actually cover all the motions. What is the Prime Minister's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u67	This is the same as my response to the interesting suggestions made by Mrs Faber and Mr Otten, apart from the political desirability which I regard as very low in my own party and the other three parties that formed this coalition. But even if we as a coalition were to come up with proposals in this direction, my expectation is that there will be no more than fifteen to twenty seats in this Chamber. That only shows once again that there are uncovered motions here. I regard these motions as an important political signal. But if there are political signals coming to the cabinet, such as the AOW, the AKW, youth care and in a number of other areas, such as compensation for the new study system, and there is no cover, then it is not unreasonable that the cabinet should say: at least give us the opportunity to look at all these wishes, including Sjoerdsma's motion on Defence, in the spring note? And that is not what Mr Van Rooijen and others are saying here: that must be resolved by 9 May and the whole of youth care must be resolved by 15 April. As far as youth services are concerned, I also understand the connection with possible negotiations in the municipal councils. That's why I promise to see what we can do. But I can't commit here exactly how we execute the motion. If there is any progress to be made, apart from youth services, on the detachment of the talks with the VNG, then we will, of course, inform the Chamber and therefore the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u68	Just a little while longer. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether the most realistic option of the menu I have presented is nitrogen of the four options I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u69	Of course, the current coalition is against all these options, but that is not the question. In the theoretical case that the coalition would be willing to propose parts of the menu here, there is still absolutely no majority for that in this Chamber. This underlines the fact that unauthorized motions have been tabled. I regard these motions as an important political signal. Sigrid Kaag and I have said that we have to weigh it in the context of the Spring Note. That's not what we're making any promises with. We cannot do that at all, because there are all kinds of issues in the Spring paper. But these are important political signals. We also know that if we do not honour them, that later on in the legislation may lead to further considerations here, which will not necessarily lead to a majority for the cabinet proposals in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u70	In replying to the questions by the Prime Minister, the bad news was that he was dissuading the motion on youth care. The beginning of perhaps good news is that he understands. I quote him now; I listen carefully 'with possible negotiations in the municipalities'. The Prime Minister knows that it is not a question of negotiations in the municipalities. All the municipalities will have a new city council from tomorrow night. All these municipalities are being negotiated. My question is: knowing that all these municipalities have to submit multiannual budgets, why doesn't the government go through with it at the moment to clarify before 15 April a cut that has been made itself? I understand the relationship with the changed international situation very well, but the municipal elections and the negotiations continue, and the obligations towards the municipalities remain. Why don't you go through with it now if you do understand what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u71	Here's what I understand. If this were to be a financial intervention that would work one-on-one in municipal budgets and would not be subject to legislation leading to another institution of the youth care system, it would, of course, be a subject to be considered in the municipal councils, and thus in the college negotiations. That is not the way the cabinet looks at it, by the way. It's not like we're saying we're passing that one-on-one over to the municipalities. No, the cabinet is looking at how to set up the youth care system in this way, so the municipal task should be designed in such a way that it can take place within the budgetary framework. That is also the task we have set ourselves in the coalition agreement. It is not a blunt cut in that we leave all the legislation as it is, but we do it by 100 million, up to 500 million, less. It's not that. If that were the case, I fully understand Mr Rosenmöller's question. But I understand that, although it's not so black and white, the municipal negotiations can still worry about what's going on. That's what you see at the VNG. The VNG says we find it complicated to have a conversation with you as long as this isn't clear. We are looking at what we can do as a cabinet to improve the atmosphere. This applies not only to youth care, but also to the wider relationship with the municipalities. We ask the municipalities to consider how we can come back together again. What I am promising here is not specifically about youth care, because it has to be further developed, but wider about the relationship. That may also be child care, but we really need to see that in the coming weeks. Without making any commitment at this point, I will inform the Chamber. We understand that, of course, it has an effect on the negotiations, that misunderstanding would mean that Mr Rosenmöller is debuting here would have a broader life in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u72	But it's two-and-a-half. The municipalities were under the assumption that the appointment with the previous cabinet was... I am not going to repeat that debate we had in the first and second periods............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There's a plus and a minus in there. That includes the reform of the youth system. That was the assumption. In addition, in the coalition agreement there is a reduction of 100 million in 2024, rising to 500 million, during the period of college responsibility, i.e. 2022 to 2026. So you have to take that into account. Anyone who's been alderman or city council member, I've been an informant in Rotterdam, and I know you have to take that into account in the first month. So you cannot wait until, on 1 June or after, there is clarity about this cut. I therefore ask the Cabinet, on behalf of a majority of the Chamber, to clarify this by 15 April at the latest. This has a role to play in the college negotiations, which are not in three weeks, six weeks or a year, but in principle in four years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u73	Mr Rosenmöller therefore assumes that the only route to book the 100 million in 2024 up to 500 million in 2025 is a bare cut. If that were the case, then I also understand that municipalities think: somehow we have to take that into account in our conversations. The cabinet must, of course, continue to discuss the details of these amounts and what it means for the establishment of the youth care system and for its consistency with all the other dossiers that concern the municipalities. So I'm not gonna say anything about that here. We don't have the luxury at the moment to say "we're deleting something here" or "we're spending 2.4 billion extra on the AOW." I can't do that right now. I've heard all the political wishes. We now weigh them in the context of the Spring Note. With regard to the talks with the municipalities, I would like to express my encouragement to Mr Rosenmöller's motion, at least in this way I interpret her to see if we can detach the talks with the UNG by providing more clarity on these points, also in connection with other dossiers, without making a firm commitment. I really need to be very precise about that. That's why I advise against the motion on balance. Otherwise, I would leave her to the judgment of the Chamber. I deliberately don't do that because I don't make any promises here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u74	Yeah, and we need to be precise, too. That's because there's no plan under the 100 million cut-up to 500 million. It is not surprising, of course, that that is interpreted as being your words, not my words being a 'bump cut'. The fact that this is and must be taken into account in the college negotiations is a logical situation. That combined with stopping the consultation with the VNG and shutting down the whole...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u75	Not by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u76	No, but you have given rise to a cut of 100 to 500 million. Again, listen to what was said today at the Malieveld. Listen to what's going on in town. You were just talking about old people and safety. This is about the safety of young people. I'm going to push the accelerator a little harder: this is also about the safety of vulnerable young people. If your position is that the cabinet should take care of the security of citizens, then this also applies. This is what youth care is all about. We need to solve this through a reform. We have to solve that by adding money. We have to solve that by looking at child care in a different way. You can't solve that with this $100 million cut going up to $500 million. That's why I'm asking you for the last time: "Get rid of that idea. Take your own chances. Restore the consultation with the municipalities. Continue with the youth reform agenda." Then we are doing well for vulnerable young people in this prosperous country in a turbulent world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u77	Finally, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u78	I do not think we should try to fight each other over the monopoly on youth care. We all feel them. I hear very well what Mr Rosenmöller is saying, but of course the cabinet and everyone in this Chamber see that this is a group of young people who are vulnerable and we have to take good care of. This admits that the cabinet is committed to setting up the youth system in such a way that it can also be properly implemented within the financial frameworks. That whole discussion needs to take place. That does not necessarily mean that it is a bald cut. It is entirely a question of how we are going to implement the 100 million ascending to 500 million in the coming period. The only thing I'm saying here is I'm being very honest with the Chamber and that I'm deceiving the motion, because it's really going way too far for me. I have to be very clear about that. But I understand the underlying message to see if it is possible to detach the talks with the VNG over a broader front, combined with the fact that there may be a feeling that they still need to fit in. We're gonna see what we can do, but without a commitment. I'm really clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u79	Mr. Otten, I'll allow one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u80	We're talking about the cover menu. I have already heard a few dishes: the 25 billion nitrogen fund and the 35 billion climate fund. The Prime Minister himself indicated in the debate on the coalition agreement that these funds were going up to 100 billion in total. We are, of course, in a completely new reality, but an important main dish on that menu for the coverage of these purchasing power corrections is the National Growth Fund of 20 billion. We have always resisted this, because it becomes a consultant's hallala of'money in search of project'. We now have a national shrinkage fund for purchasing power among the Dutch. So put that Growth Fund, which was already a bad idea, in the fridge. Invest-NL was also 2 billion... Wouter Bos has already flown.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u81	Mr. Otten, we are now going to recreate the entire general political considerations. We're gonna go over the whole budget, I think. I'll allow one question. You've had it now. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u82	Mr Otten is not making it any easier for himself and not, therefore, Mrs Faber and Mr Dessing, because what he is doing is going to continue to make proposals that will be popular with part of the right flank of this Chamber, but which I estimate the coalition will not come up with and that, if the coalition were to come up with them, they would not reach a majority. And if Mr Otten really thinks that these are proposals that can count on a majority here, then he should also be a man enough to table a motion which includes those proposals. He would only do that in the belief that there is a majority here. He doesn't. I think that is also politically sensible, because I predict him: that majority is not here. In doing so, he would also break the consensus in this Chamber on these points by voting out motions, while we now have a situation where there are uncovered motions, but they do send an important political signal to the cabinet. In my view, it is really wise to leave it at that and not to speculate on all kinds of right-wing solutions to this issue. I don't think they can do that for the average VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u83	I don't have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u84	Well, then you should have filed a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u85	Yes, in fact, we've already had that second term. I would ask Members in the Chamber to keep some rest, otherwise it will not be possible for people at home to follow this debate. There aren't microphones everywhere you sit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u86	I would like to return to the beginning of the Prime Minister's reply, in which he indicated that there was, of course, a huge change. Everyone understands that. It is not just Mr Sjoerdsma's wish that there should be enormous amounts of money in the defence sector. That was also the wish of the SGP for a long time. That is also well known. But that situation has also changed a great deal for the citizens of this country. We are trying to give them clarity through these debates for the coming period, which will be very complicated and difficult for them. Now we can say a lot about that, but the Prime Minister has just indicated that his commitment is to try to sit with the UNG again before 15 April, if I may interpret him like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u87	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u88	And if it isn't, I'd love to hear it. But even if he wants to resume that debate with the VNG, there will have to be a start to be made on what this Chamber is asking for. In this respect, I would also like to put a somewhat broader perspective. The Prime Minister will not benefit if he comes here with laws that will be voted down. This Chamber has no use in forming some kind of counterpower in a way no one here wants. The only search we have today is whether we can somehow determine that direction that what is widely shared here is being picked up by the government. It is something else if a motion to the Tax Plan is not covered instead of a government statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u89	I agree with Mr Schalk, but I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that if a political signal is given by this House on a number of important dossiers, do so, do so now, do so without a political majority committing itself to cover, it is not unreasonable for the cabinet to say: we take these political signals very seriously, but we want to weigh them in relation to all the other priorities that lie in the spring note. Because then we can all look at it together, for example the point of the AKW mentioned by Mr Schalk and all the other things that have been mentioned here. The question of defence has been added to that at the Lower House. That's what I'm saying. I am also saying that I am not making a commitment that we will be able to work with the VNG before 15 April, but I will say that we will inform the Chamber of progress as soon as there is progress on that dossier. I also understand that it's nice to get that progress, but I can't tell you right now whether or not and how. That's why I advise against the Rosenmöller motion. I'm very honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u90	Well, let's get right to the point. If the Prime Minister says he'll inform us before 15 April about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u91	If...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u92	If there were any progress. But that means that the Prime Minister also wants some progress to be made, otherwise you can also say: we are going to wait and see; perhaps the UNG will come to us. No, there is a very clear political signal. I agree with the Prime Minister. But that political signal also has a date in it. What will the Prime Minister then do to create that movement at least in the direction of 15 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u93	That's not something I can share in public here. That is not something I do myself, but of course the leaders on VWS, also broader together with Home Affairs and the fund managers, are looking at how we can pull off the conversation with the VNG. But it takes two to tango; it will of course depend on the VNG. We do not have that on our own, but of course we all want to try to get back into a situation of conversation. That's one. How we do exactly that and what is going on there does not lend itself to the public debate. Part of that thought has not yet been hardened; that is what we are working on. In addition, of course, there is the specific question of college negotiations. In itself, I understand that question. If the idea is that there can only be 100 million or 500 million seconds, without saying anything about what that means for the establishment of the system, I understand that. We can't solve all that before 15 April, but we're gonna see if we can pull those calls off again. If there would be progress on that, but again, it takes two to tango; so I cannot make any commitment about it at all and therefore I advise against the Rosenmöller motion, of course, there will be another message to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u94	I'll allow one question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u95	Most parties' electoral programmes stated that the minimum wage would be increased further. Practically no programme said that the AOW would not be linked, as has been the case for 40 years. I'm not talking about the regular clutch, because it stays. I am talking about the extraordinary link, in this case by an extraordinary increase in the minimum wage. Does the Prime Minister recognise that, in the short term, there must be security for the elderly that the link between the AOW and that increase in the minimum wage is maintained by 7.5%? The Prime Minister has already admitted that this means that the AOW for single people is, in my opinion, a one-off one-off one-off one-off but permanent one-off 5% lower, from 70% to 65%. That's not a one-time thing. That's permanent and final. Can the Prime Minister acknowledge that, apart from all the priorities of the Spring Paper, this is such an issue that a decision should be taken on this matter for the Spring Paper? For this cabinet proposal, this antisocial proposal, this unfair proposal, which the FNV and we said the same afternoon that we were bewildered and that it does not compensate the 1 million poor elderly through the elderly discount, must be dismissed. You must withdraw this proposal. In short, you shouldn't come with it. With this motion, we ask you to clarify this before the Spring paper, because it is not a matter of weighing up other priorities. You mentioned a few. I won't say that here because of the war situation, but you know what I mean. This has been an absolute right of the elderly for 40 years. You can't say: we're going to disconnect that. It's not a one-time thing. It's not temporary. It's permanent and final. Mrs Ploumen said that neatly in the House of Representatives: what you take away cannot be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u96	Finally, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u97	The current bill of GroenLinks and the Labour Party also has no link to the AOW. That's also interesting to report. That is what I said to Mrs Ploumen in the debate in the House of Representatives. Apart from that, there is no reduction in the AOW. There is no reduction in the AOW. We're not gonna do that. We want to raise the minimum wage as a cabinet. The question is whether the AOW will then rise with that increase. We believe that the AOW should remain fully, prosperously linked to wage developments in the Netherlands, as we have always done. But the cabinet said in the coalition agreement that we find it imaginable that you do not do it once with that one-off increase in the minimum wage. Of that, the First Chamber says in a majority: you must do so. If it were the case that the cabinet intended to reduce the AOW, then I fully understand that Mr Van Rooijen says that this would cause great unrest for the elderly. But that proposal is not there. There is no proposal to reduce the AOW. There is a proposal in the coalition agreement to raise the minimum wage. The First Chamber now pronounces in a majority: it is the political desire to fully link the AOW to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u98	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u99	So we are all going to consider this in the context of the Spring Note and in the context of...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u100	No, Prime Minister, you do not have the floor. Mr. Van Rooijen doesn't have the floor either. We just agreed on one question. I'm sticking to that now. I hear Mr Van Rooijen making a comment outside the microphone about Mr Schalk. But Mr Schalk's question was in the first round and you are in the second round. Let me see if the Minister of Finance wishes to speak. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u101	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Mrs Faber wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u102	Mr. Chairman. In my view, if there is a motion of censure, it is a direct vote and we are not going to postpone it until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u103	The last one I remember was in 2012. That was a motion of censure from the PVV. That was voted on a week later. But if you make an order proposal to vote immediately tonight, I will see if there is any support for that. Then we'll vote on the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u104	I shall now put forward an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-12.u105	Fine. We shall then vote on Mrs Faber's procedural proposal to vote this evening on her motion 35788, letter S. If that procedural proposal is adopted, then I shall decide what time we shall allow that vote to take place, because I also think that various groups should have the opportunity to be present. So it could take some time to get over that. But that's what we're gonna decide after that. We shall first vote on Mrs Faber's procedural proposal to vote on motion 35788, letter S by Mrs Faber and others, at a later date this evening. Let me see if all the groups are in the places where they normally are. That is the case, except, of course, the groups that are absent. Let me look around to see if there are any groups that would like to give an explanation of vote on this order proposal. That is not the case. We're gonna sit down and get up. Will the groups which are in favour of the order proposal to vote on this motion this evening stand? I note that the members of the political groups in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, who still give an explanation of vote, have voted in favour of this order proposal and the members of the political groups in the PvdA, GroenLinks, D66, SP, SGP, VVD and 50PLUS against it, so that the order proposal has been rejected. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the members, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the staff who made this meeting possible.
