ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I warmly welcome the Prime Minister, as well as the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the MPs, the journalists in the public gallery and the viewers who are using other opportunities to see the debate. I would like to agree with Members as follows: four comments or questions to each other and six to the cabinet. An interruption is a short question or comment. Not a long introduction, as this can be done in the first and second term. We also had a debate last week. Yesterday was the press conference. A number of measures have been relaxed. I therefore assume that today's debate will focus on this issue and that it is not a repeat of last week's debate. Those were my household announcements. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	You said four interruptions, but last week was experienced by me, but also by other Members of Parliament, that that is really on the tight side. I would therefore ask you to make six interruptions. If you really think that's going too far, I'm asking you to turn it into five interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	Look, I like that negotiation, I'm just saying. Then it'll be five.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	But I'll let you have six.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	Of course. The moment a question is not answered, we deal with it smoothly. That's what we did last time. Let's make it five, but I'd like to appeal to you. According to our Rules of Procedure, an interruption is short. It's a short question or comment, without a whole treatise. If we can make that appointment, we can start the debate now. Thank you very much. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. Here we are again: another corona debate, less than a week after the previous one. There are more points of light and more happy people. The caterers are so ready. The culture makers are so excited about it. Young people and students look forward to an evening at the diner. Our country is opening up again. Hooray! Yet life is still not quite back to normal, no matter how much we want it, especially the entrepreneurs, among others in the nighthoreca. I listened to the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS at the press conference. I understand the uncertainty that remains about the effects of this virus variant. I think it is brave that this cabinet should make the weighting to look beyond the three objectives of the corona policy, as we asked for in the motion adopted yesterday. We ask that we keep an eye on a fourth goal: energy and resilience in our society. I think it's a good idea for the cabinet to make its own weighting. Science is indispensable, but the final choices are also practical and require more weighing. Mr. Chairman. The VVD prefers to open at a calm pace step by step more than it takes a step back because of surprises or panic. The cabinet called that "jojoen," I believe. My first question is: what factors does the cabinet look at in the next three weeks and six weeks? What figures do we have to decide to open up further? How can entrepreneurs, for example, think about the nighthoreca, but also culture makers, show that they feel and want to bear co-responsibility in order to be able to open up safely? That's what I asked last week. What do the protocols and learning points from the field labs mean at the next weighing? I'd like an explanation. I told you, science is indispensable as a basis for all these considerations. All that scientific knowledge is put into models, but is it explanatory enough? Do we know whether people understand what omikron means, for example? Do we know how the cabinet can better communicate about the risks and measures? Do they communicate well enough with the coronadashboard and the press conferences? This morning the technical briefing already mentioned that the improvement of the coronadashboard is also the subject of the RIVM. Mrs Gündoğan asked for that. But I am particularly curious if the Minister is thinking about smart and effective communication. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The WHO expects scenario 2 of the KNAW/WRR opinion to apply to Europe, i.e. more of an endemic disease. My question to the Minister is to what extent he agrees with that statement and what that means for his long-term approach. By the way, I expect a letter with that approach next week. Is that right? In previous debates, the word "toolbox" has often been mentioned: the various measures available to implement the corona policy. The VVD Group needs an overview of all possible measures. What works against spreading? What works against illness and pressure on care? What has been proven and what hasn't been proven? What kind of knowledge do we need if we are to be able to weigh up what measures are needed for the future? How can the Minister implement this? Mr. Chairman. That is important, because as a Chamber we must be able to weigh what is necessary and what is desirable. We do not need to try to outsmart anyone. However, we do need to be able to take a critical look at the effects and side effects of different measures, what is needed and what is desirable. We want the Chamber to be able to take decisions that will allow us to open the Netherlands up step by step. We also want these to be easily explained to everyone: to entrepreneurs and care workers, to young people and older people, to anyone who feels co-responsible for the well-being of the Netherlands. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I have two specific questions. One: can the cabinet, in consultation with the security regions, already discuss whether and how carnival can be celebrated safely? What is needed and what can the security regions do in this? I'd like a commitment. The student associations are also pleased that there can be some more. But they are covered by the hospitality rules, while it is also culture and in these times a very important form of social well-being. Can the cabinet talk to the associations to make concrete agreements or protocols with them, so that they too can help to open up safely? Is the Minister also prepared to take a critical look at the quarantine rules for student homes? It's still too early to cheer, but it looks like this surgery is going to succeed and the patient can start recovery. And you bet we're going to celebrate that very carefully at the pub, the restaurant or the theater. Only together will we learn to live with this virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union. Then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, Mrs Kuik, Mr Hijink and Mr Jansen. First of all, Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	Well, that's quite a lot of spokesmen. I don't have any questions about carnival. I'll leave that between the VVD and the cabinet. I do have a question about the endemic phase and the measures. The VVD Group is now asking the cabinet: what does it look like and what does it fit? But I am actually curious about the answer of the VVD Group. Are other measures needed in an endemic phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	I believe that the mix of measures will in any case be different and that it can change over time, because certain variations occur or influence certain seasonal influences. So I find it very difficult to say already: I think this is the best package. I can't say. Scientific insights fit in with that, but also practical considerations and just a debate with each other. So if Mr Segers asks me to make some kind of top three or rule things out right now, I say: I just can't do that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	Then I'm gonna ask you a little more specific. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that we have a very precarious balance between government and society? The government says: we want to serve public health; for that we now restrict part of your freedom. That's a very precarious agreement. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that if those conditions change and we go to an endemic phase, there can be no full toolbox, where everything that restricts that freedom of citizens is still in there, without it being proportional because we are in another phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	What I am proposing in that toolbox, by the way, is not that all those measures contained in it can always be applied without being approved, I would almost say. So I do not know whether Mr Segers and I have the same picture in the toolbox, which I find quite a complicated word in this regard. I am a member of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy for a reason. Freedom is in my veins, I'd almost say. When it comes to freedom and proportionality, what do you ask people to give up freedom, but also to bear responsibility? How do you take that responsibility as a government in a broad sense? I think that consideration is very important. That's something we have to look at critically with each other. But I do not think we can do that until we have a complete overview so that we can debate this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	I understand that, but I'd still like to go one step further. I would like to make one point more clear. There's now the possibility of using a CTB, such a corona pass, to ask people for something before they go in somewhere. That would be entirely the case if there were 2G. I'm not in favour of that, because then you'll limit freedom completely. If a liberal party has to weigh that, then that weighting in an endemic phase is different, isn't it? Then you cannot say: that what is now available to the government, must also be at the disposal of the government in an endemic phase? We can write that statement now, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	We discussed this with Mr Van Dissel in the briefing this morning. If endemic means that it is going to be a bit of a flu and that it isn't that bad, then Mr Segers is quite right. But I don't think we're ready yet. We can and should perhaps also be anxious that there are variants that are not only more contagious, but also far more sickening. And I don't think it's called an endemic phase. Mr Segers says: I do not like the idea that the government has some sort of thing in hand to restrict people's freedom at random. I'm paraphrasing a little bit now. I fully agree with Mr Segers, of course. We haven't gotten to the endgame yet. I think we should make up for this type of weighting at each stage. We must do this both here in the Chamber and with society. This is exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	Restaurants and the cultural sector are allowed to open their doors! Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.... okay, That was different last time. So I wonder if the VVD understands that this is not a workable set of measures and that there is never a profitable exploitation for people working in the hospitality or in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	Not only does the VVD understand that, we feel that. And that's the complexity of this whole crisis. It would be easy if you could say, "This measure works 100% and then we're all done." Or: "We can open everything up now, then we're all fine and then we're all done." That would be very nice. I'd love it if it worked so one-dimensionally. But that's not how it works. Mr. Van Haga also saw the models this morning. It can still go either way. So I think it is very important not to take too big a step, to prevent us from going back, because I would actually find it much worse if we had to close parts again in three weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	We've all seen those models. We see it every technical briefing. They are always very ominous, they always show pink and green lines that go all the way through the roof. Then we've taken 4,000 Ice Beds, but it's never a good time. My question was: can we not come up with a set of measures that do work? I'm not in favour of that QR pass, not of mouth caps and not of those 1.5 meters, but if you just ask for a QR pass, the VVD wants that kind of restrictive measures, and you do so without that 1.5 meters, at least you have a chance. But now the whole cultural sector and the whole hospitality industry are on their backs at oxygen because this combination of measures is totally unworkable. That's what you have to do, isn't it? Because you've had an influence on the cabinet, haven't you? Now it's a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have a little more influence on the cabinet than you do, because we are here with a few more people in the Chamber, but that is the difference. I think we are having the debate here, with the questions and wishes that come from the Chamber. I don't want it all either, but again, that virus doesn't stick to linear predictions. That virus can just live up very quickly in a short time and can make a lot of people very sick in a short time. That's the problem. I do not have to bear the responsibility to make all these weighings in the end, but I would like to say from the Chamber what I think is important. What I consider important, on behalf of my group, is that we do this weighted so that we can really move forward step by step towards an open society. Some measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	I don't want this to be an interruption, but I'm just gonna cut this off, because I'm not gonna get an answer to my question twice. Of course, I love what Mrs. Tielen thinks. Is this a workable set of measures? It's not that, I just argued that in detail. So can you explain to me why they didn't choose a set that does work? Then you can still take all kinds of dystopian measures, but at least something that the catering industry and the cultural sector can work with, because now they don't even have to open up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mrs. Tielen. A Member of Parliament is about his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	As I said, I think there are also a lot of entrepreneurs who can work with these measures. What you want to ask for measures, you have to ask the cabinet. I hear it can be done, and I just want to take steps forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mrs Kuzu, PvdA, then Mr Hijink van de SP and then Mr Jansen, Mr Kuzu and then Mrs Kuik? Okay, first up, Mr. Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually felt that Mr Segers was asking some very legitimate questions. If you go to another stage of this pandemic, then there are other measures, measures that belong to normal society as we are used to. As far as the SP is concerned, that doesn't include the tickets. I would like to ask the VVD, Mrs Tielen, what exactly is liberal about the idea that people, including those who have properly achieved their vaccinations and boosters in recent months, for the next few years, need to register a booster, an infection, every time, in order to have access to, for example, restaurants, festivals or other facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	I don't recognize that "for years to come." So perhaps Mr Hijink needs to tighten his question a little bit so that I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr Hijink, an explanation of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yeah, I'll tighten it up. When the ticket was introduced last year, Hugo de Jonge, the former minister, said: it's a temporary measure, which we're only going to use for the summer, to make Lowlands, to make festivals possible and then we won't see him again. What you see happening is that we see that happening more often with measures that intervene in people's freedom is that measures start as a crisis measure and become semi-permanent or completely permanent. That's what's happening with the corona pass. Then my question is: what is liberal about the idea that people, including those who have already had vaccinations, should continue to undergo vaccinations and keep registering everything on behalf of the government, or else they will be punished by denying access to important facilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	"Liberal" is an important value in measuring it, but I believe that the most important values we now need to measure these kinds of measures are the three objectives of the Corona policy. How do we ensure that, on the one hand, we protect vulnerable people and, on the other hand, keep the care taxable, keep an eye on the virus and, as far as I am concerned, keep society resilient and energetic? The vaccinations are a means to reduce infectiousness on the one hand, but also to reduce your own disease burden. You just get less sick when you catch the virus. With the corona tickets, it is possible to make sure that there are fewer infections in a room and that the people who are there get less sick when they are vaccinated. With that we keep things somewhat limited, I think, with the models we have seen in recent years. We'll just have to take a look for now, now that almost everything is opening up again, whether that's actually gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	I would like to ask Mrs Tielen: how do you feel about it? We hung up on the hospital tickets around Christmas, because the Cabinet relied on the tickets. That didn't help to control the number of infections. What we are seeing now is that we are moving with the government's measures towards 100,000 infections a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	So to what extent does the ticket still contribute to reducing the number of infections, if the VVD, but also the cabinet, accepts on all sides that we go through the 100,000 infections a day? Surely you cannot seriously believe that we would need this drastic measure to reduce the number of infections, while reducing the number of infections is not at all the government's priority at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	There is not one measure that offers the whole solution. I think this fits in with the current package, which I believe has indeed taken courageous steps, which the OMT really did not advise. If Mr. Hijink asks me "the VVD is critical at every step of the way" then Mr. Hijink finds me by his side. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	I want to go on in the long run anyway. This is what I'm talking about. If you look back, you can see that the ticket didn't actually help to prevent that peak in December. We can also see now that the tickets are being tightened up again today, and they are not intended to reduce the number of infections. The cabinet accepts the number of infections going through the roof. Then how does the VVD view that, at the moment we have had this wave, we would still need tickets to control the number of infections? I just don't understand how that can be a means to an objective that the cabinet doesn't have at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	What we accept if we all agree with the package we have here is indeed that the number of infections is increasing. Whether it increases so much without corona tickets or even more, there is still a difference. Whether the disease of the virus increases in this way, there is also a difference. So I do not think it is entirely fair for Mr Hijink to put one measure now as a kind of "one or zero" measure, while of course there are many more factors together. Once again, it is certainly not a measure that I welcome, because I also see that it is really a restriction for the people who want to go to the theatre or the pub as well as for the entrepreneurs who are behind it. But I also believe that within this current package it is sufficient to open up a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	Let me now turn to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. Then Mrs. Kuzu and Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	I'd like to connect with that. TU Delft has researched the 2G/3G corona app. The conclusion is: it's actually not working at all. However, the government has chosen to re-introduce it now and even extend it to sectors where it did not apply first. The European Commission has reported something interesting to the follow-the-money research platform: the design of the European corona app was only a first version, which can develop into a perfect digital wallet, a digital identity. They also said that Member States will continue to work on this in the coming months. Is the VVD in favour of transforming such a corona app into a digital identity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	Pooh, that's a big question. I don't quite see the implications of a digital identity. It doesn't feel funny, so I don't think so. The corona tickets are now there to make sure that inside and in places where many people are together the infection of the virus is lower and to make sure that there are people there who get less ill. Those are the two effects. Doesn't it work at all? I don't think TU Delft said that. Moreover, there are all kinds of assumptions in that model. By the way, there is also a piece of research missing. But I think the answer to Mr. Jansen's question is just no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	That is remarkable, because in the VVD's election programme we can read that the VVD is in favour of one online identity for every Dutchman in order to identify himself online. That's what the coalition agreement says. How is that possible? How is it that the VVD is advocating this in its own election programme and that it is included in the government agreement and that you are now saying that you are not in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Freek Jansen is linking the corona pass to the digital identity. I'm saying that's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'm not the only one saying this. Maybe you should read the article. For example, Andrew Bud is the founder and director of iProov, the company that created the British corona app, said: a digital test and vaccination policy will help the entire field of digital ID on the way. This isn't just about COVID-19, it's about something much bigger. The French defence company Thales also wrote in blog posts that the coronapas will serve as a stepping stone for the introduction of a digital ID certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	How do you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	I was going to say that Mr Jansen has a good one and a half speaking time! I don't have to rhyme with that. You ask me a question about what the VVD thinks. That's right, because you can do it right here in this room. I've said what I think. Whatever Mr. Andrew Bud thinks of it, I'd like to leave it to Mr. Andrew Bud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	I can only conclude that we have been working here for two years to build such a digital identity, under false pretenses, as if it were about public health. It is quite clear that this is happening now and the VVD is fully involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	I think you can conclude very different things too, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thanks to Mrs. Chicken for letting me go early. My question is indeed in line with the corona pass. I am not asking the question, like Mr Hijink, from an ideological point of view, because I think that at least there are few liberals left to the VVD on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	My question is: why does the VVD actually believe in that corona pass? We also see research that contradicts it tremendously. Then why do you believe in it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	The huge contradiction of investigations is still not so bad. Here's what I've been trying to say. Eventually, I cannot gain all the knowledge on my own, nor can my group, about everything that is needed to fight this pandemic somewhat and to keep it liveable. We need scientific knowledge, we need practical knowledge and we need to weigh things up. But I rely on science to a large extent. In science there are people who challenge each other, who contradict each other, who collect information and so on. The scientific advice of the OMT, which is, by the way, different from the final decision-making that the cabinet is proposing, is to handle this very carefully and to apply those corona tickets. I trust they will advise that because it actually helps to control those peaks somewhat. I think we're gonna do it like this. Because I think it is important that we should be able to open up further step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	In fact, Mrs Tielen makes two arguments. One: past experience. When we look at past experiences, we see that a corona pass doesn't really cause the infections to fall significantly. We've seen that recently. And when it comes to scientific evidence, we have recently had a study by TU Delft which concluded that a corona access card is more harmful than it is beneficial. That is actually the conclusion of TU Delft's research. If we look at both aspects that Mrs Tielen continues to address, there is really only one conclusion to be drawn, namely: we simply should not do so. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	The point is: what best helps against this virus spread is that we're all going to be in social isolation, which works very well, but we don't want that. So we're looking for different ways to get back to being social with each other. The corona pass doesn't stop the virus on its own. The corona pass combined with other things can give a dampening effect. Again, it doesn't quite stop it. But I think it is important that we should at least go a step further towards an open society. I'll take the corona pass for granted. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr President, I would like to spare some of my interruptions. I could go on for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kuik van de PvdA, and then to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mrs. Tielen already longs for carnival. That goes for me as Brabander too, but at the same time the suffering for many companies has not yet been suffered. Lots of business, the clubs, the festivals, aren't opening yet. But a lot of entrepreneurs for whom the light is now again are not yet out of the question. The aid packages do not offer sufficient customisation, cash flow has not yet started and debt problems are high. I actually expected a call from the VVD to the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	What Mrs. Chicken says is true. Many entrepreneurs are happy to be able to open the doors again and receive guests, but they do not yet know how to get their accounts in order, so to speak. The previous debates have already been asked a lot from the VVD for extra customization for starters, for group companies and that sort of thing. I understand from the previous debate that this is going to happen and that it is going to be better. We are far from where I think we should be, but I did not ask for that in these four minutes. But with Mrs. Chicken, I see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u55	I had another number of entrepreneurs on the phone yesterday, and they figure out exactly why they're not coming out. This morning I received a letter or e-mail from SME-Netherlands indicating that the packages do not end up where they are needed. May I ask through you to call on the cabinet to do so, to see where help is needed and to offer tailor-made work? Otherwise, many companies will fall over the next month or in the coming months for various reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u56	Once with Mrs Kuik, the VVD has called for this in the past 22 months through all kinds of routes, through motions and in debates. I think it's very important that that gets off the ground. We will certainly continue to monitor that critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u58	At first, I actually wanted to make a point of order. You said at the beginning that MPs are about their own words. I think that's a bit of a free pass for a Member of Parliament just to say a few words and not give an answer. Then an MP can say on a very serious question, for example, "My cat is sick, I have to go to the vet." That won't happen, but hypothetically, it can. I would like to ask the President, if that happens and if there is a bit of confusion and there is no concrete answer to a simple question, to help the Member of Parliament who is interrupting a little bit on the way by asking the speaker to answer. I myself think that works well and causes much less irritation. Otherwise, anyone can just say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u59	I'm happy that you're making an appeal to your colleagues. I'm not going to do that myself, but I'm going to help you when the cabinet doesn't answer enough. We have always had the rule here that Members of Parliament are talking about their own answers, but I see your point as an appeal to colleagues. Your question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u60	Yeah, then my question. Last week we, Mrs Tielen and I, had a little debate here on the proper registration of covid patients. So just for the people who haven't seen that: someone who comes in with a broken ankle and needs to be recorded...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u61	I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u62	Sorry, I think I was talking. Which comes in with a broken ankle or pelvis and therefore is not registered as a covid patient, because it pollutes the covid figures. We said something about that to each other last week. Mrs Tielen then indicated that it was not practical, and the motion on it was dissuaded. We asked for this in a motion, but the whole coalition voted against it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u63	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u64	Next, NICE will do so at the request of the hospitals. The hospitals wanted it on their own. How does Mrs Tielen feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u65	I think that's how it's supposed to go with things like registrations. If the professionals themselves think it's of value, they should. The point is that they're going to do it, but it doesn't affect the final policy that takes place on the hospital floor. Mrs Van der Plas can ask the Minister whether it has an impact on the policy of this House. But in itself, it's very good if hospitals want to work on it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mrs. Tielen said she didn't want to last week. Maybe that's why the motion was dissuaded. That is why the coalition voted against it. Then I wonder if Mrs Tielen has had any contact with hospitals in this case. If she had known that hospitals wanted this for themselves, we wouldn't have to do that little debate here last week. Then she didn't have to say it wasn't practical either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u67	I've been in constant contact with a lot of people and professionals in the country. Here's what I was thinking. Mrs Van der Plas and many others have experienced me as a spokesperson for the first time last week. I'm going to promise you... The administrative burden in the care is one of my main irritation points. This is partly because we want to know all kinds of things here in the Chamber, because we think they can affect policy, but they are really disturbing in the workplace. That is why I was quite against it last week. I was also wondering if we could ask the Minister whether that difference between with and because of covid actually shows such a great effect in the models. If it is, it's a different story. My main question is whether registration has an impact on policy. Where it doesn't have that, I'll struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mrs. Tielen, it's not an extra line. It is a check mark "with covid" or a check mark "because of covid." That's not an extra set of rules at all. Then you just throw up fog. That's not an extra line. Does Mrs. Tielen know what extra rule pressure is? Additional rule pressure is all those people who are now walking through depression at the ggz, all those families that have fallen apart and who now have to seek help from psychologists, for example, to heal things again. Those are extra line pressure. Does Mrs. Tielen agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mrs van der Plas and I agree on a lot of things. Mrs van der Plas makes a linear link between one and the other. She did that last week, and that's kind of hard for me. One extra check mark is not an extra line pressure, but all the extra ticks together are. That's not just in hospitals and on ICUs, it's in all the care. That's one of my biggest irritation points. That's what I hear from healthcare professionals. I'll keep fighting. But perhaps Mrs. Van der Plas has another nice video for Twitter. Then I'll see it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u70	I thought we were gonna hang out a little nicer. I find this last remark in the line of "Mr Van Haga has probably read the VIEW." This is really out of control. Let me make a point of order. I find this really disgusting. This just shouldn't be happening here. I'm also trying to be decent with Mrs. Tielen. I really think this is hopeless. This is not for the benefit of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u71	I'll take a look at Mrs. Tielen. Does she have anything to say about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Van Haga and I have known each other a long time. Mr. Van Haga knows that I'm calling what? I'm not a nice or unfriendly person, but last weekend I got a lot of stuff going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mr. Van Haga, your question to Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u74	These are riddles. I don't know what the hell this is about. Maybe Mrs. Tielen can explain what was going on. That might explain why she's flying off the bend to Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u75	No. Mr. Van Haga, I'd like to give you the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u76	I thought it wasn't too bad to fly out of the bend, but if it's experienced that way, I'd like to take it back, you know. The fact is, this is what I'm seeing. With interruptions we try to prepare better decision-making on the one hand, but on the other hand we also try to cut nice things to put other MPs away via the social media. It's been bothering me for a while. That's why this was a slip of the tongue. If that's annoying, I'd like to say it was definitely not meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u77	I shall now give the floor to Mrs van der Plas, and we shall now proceed to the content of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u78	Excuse me. I'll be brief. I thought, "Do I have to respond to this or not?" I don't like cutting videos where I think: oh, I'm gonna grab Mrs. Tielen on Twitter. Not at all. We have a party. I'm just showing citizens what we're doing in the Chamber. I'm putting debates on Twitter. I also posted on Twitter the other day that I was having coffee with Mr. Van Meenen of D66. I do. You don't have to take it back. I have an elephant skin, literally and figuratively. I'm just gonna say it or you're gonna get it again. So what Mrs Tielen is saying is not the case at all and I regret that she suggests that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u79	I think it's very well pronounced. Mrs. Tielen has responded to everyone. Now I would like to ask Mr Van Haga to ask a question about corona, because that is what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u80	I should have had this microphone cleaned, but Mrs Van der Plas and I are one household, so that's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u81	This raises a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u82	We're so close together and those aerosols go all over the room. What I was looking for was that Mrs Tielen said that the quality of the data or the fact that you have a good record of the data does not affect the policy. That's some bullshit. Mrs Tielen knows that herself. If you have wrong data, there's wrong data in those models. That's why you see these huge spikes in the RIVM models every time. Then shit comes out and the OMT gives a wrong advice. That comes with the cabinet and that does indeed make wrong policy. That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'm just thinking how deep this piece goes. Just for the viewers at home. It was about the people who ended up on the ICU. They get a covid test and if tested positively, they are registered as covid patients, whether or not they are in hospital by covid. That's what it was all about. Mr Van Haga seems to have indicated earlier that this is a problem. That's right. Only, in the overall model with the predictions this is only a very small factor. Moreover, the relationship between infections and ic recordings is also extracted from other sources. So I do not think it is the most important source to base the whole policy. It is a very small factor and then another data source is used. That is why it is my view that it does not have a very large impact on policy. But maybe we should ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u84	Your last question, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u85	Yeah, then I can go home, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u86	The cabinet will come after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u87	Yeah, thank God. Mrs. Tielen says it has a very small effect. At least we agree that it does have an effect and that it can be very useful to properly record the data, so that there are no data in wrong models and in error policies. But there are a lot of different areas where there are wrongly recorded or measured. I've told you endlessly here about the PCR test and the antigen tests. There are huge margins of error in that. And then there's this. Then you get a gear on a gear and then you can fly off the bend. That is exactly what the policy has done over the past two years, with the help of the VVD. Those data are extremely important, because if we get bad advice here, it won't work. And that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u88	If Mr. Van Haga asks me to be critical of everything we are given to science and practical considerations, I agree with him. At the same time, no one can predict the future one hundred percent. So we will have to weigh up part of what we think is important if we are to open up our society again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u90	In her contribution, Mrs Tielen made a very nice plea to make as much as possible safe again, so that people can go back to events. Now yesterday we voted on a motion to use the unutilised test capacity to use it to allow more spectators in stadiums and events. That motion almost made it, but among other things the VVD voted against. I would like to ask Mrs Tielen what it takes to get the VVD to make proposals of this kind work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u91	The VVD is still somewhat concerned about the test capacity, to be honest. Last week, I asked the Minister how big the test capacity was. The Minister replied at that time what that capacity would be, but apparently it is not yet that far. That's one of the reasons why the VVD is a little cautious to already say things to certain sectors. With the increasing contaminations, we need that test capacity in the first place, especially with this package, to help the weighted society at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you to Mrs Tielen for that answer. It is, of course, about the unused test capacity. We have a capacity of over 4 million. The question is, of course, how can we use this test capacity at high-risk events, where many people meet, in the cultural sector and in stadiums. I understand Mrs Tielen in such a way that she says: if we ensure that it is feasible and we are convinced, then the VVD can also support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u93	In any case, the VVD is open to making that assessment with each other, if we do have the confidence that the residual capacity can first do its job for the whole of society. But there's definitely talk to us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66 for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. Happy all around. We're back in business. We can go back to dinner. We can go back to the theater, be it at 1.5 meters and until 10:00. There are still restrictions. I understand that the catering industry, but above all the cultural sector, says: it is not enough, because a room is not being filled enough and we cannot continue to do so. That is why I ask the Prime Minister what the compensation for culture and catering is like. What's the perspective for them if we have another weighing moment in three weeks? At least it's a start. There's a huge craving for more. The European Director of the WHO called: we are on our way to the end of the pandemic. I'm hopeful too, but the game isn't over until the final signal sounds. Because the same WHO director also said: this virus has surprised us more than once, so we have to be very careful. In other words, we have to keep our eye on the ball. Corona is not a flu and not everyone has been vaccinated or protected. The pressure on hospitals can still increase, even in the case of omikron. So I'm worried. I am particularly concerned about the people who are constantly seeing their care postponed. You can call them the waiting list patients, or even the forgotten patients. They're heart patients, cancer patients. They're also our family members, our neighbors, the people we know from the schoolyard. Or the woman in the NRC last weekend, who died of her aneurysm after seeing her care postponed. I think that's very sad. We see in other countries that omikron places less pressure on the highly specialised ic care, but that the pressure comes mainly on the less intensive care. If we want to make room for these waiting list patients, as far as I'm concerned, we have to temporarily deliver the less intensive covid care in what I call a reserve hospital. With the help of the Red Cross, Defense and hopefully volunteers. This is a far-reaching choice, but one that we must make. Together with Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA, I asked you to prepare us for this earlier. That is why I ask the Minister: can these reserve hospitals be started as soon as possible? Then the quarantine rules. It's nice that they've become clearer. For schools and for parents I speak out of personal experience... these rules were impossible, because omikron goes like a wildfire. Last week, children from 12,000 classes had to stay home. But it remains important that we protect children well. They can also be hospitalized. I therefore hope that we will inform parents about the need for vaccination. Is there an extra campaign dedicated to this? Then the older children, from 12 to 18 years old. I wonder why France and Germany have gone to boosters, but the Netherlands have not yet. Especially in view of the health of their children, I get many questions from parents, but I also get a lot of questions because people run against entry rules from other countries. Mr. Chairman. Rounding up. I had some doubts as to whether I wanted to name this: the eternal dilemma of extremism. Aren't you gonna name it not to pay attention? Or are you speaking out against extremism every time? I'm used to being a politician. But now that I'm barely a week spokesperson corona, a new low has been reached for me. The dung that I and many other colleagues are getting over us, in emails and on social media, is horrible. This extremism is not normal. I am increasingly convinced that you must speak out against hatred, against indescribable sexism and against the bizarre accusations that fill my inbox every day. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to say that I do not accept this. It is a responsibility of all of us to speak out against it; from the person on the left-hand blue chair to the person on the right-hand blue chair. Words matter, so as far as I'm concerned this one too. For nonsense, hatred and verbal violence, there is no place in the Chamber or in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you. I think we can all agree with your message. I would like to give Mrs Van Esch a chance to interrupt. I suddenly see three people walking in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u97	I was walking in the right direction. First of all, I would like to join with the words that have just been said. It is very good that they are expressed in this way. That is also very important. However, my interruption concerns a point of substance. I wonder how D66 looks at the WHO Director's statement that we should not be surprised again. We were surprised by that corona virus. I wonder whether you, like the Animal Party, agree that we should not be surprised again by new zoonotic pandemics which may well be in store for us and whether we should take precautions to prevent them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u98	I very much agree with Mrs Van Esch, because preparing for a pandemic is not the only way to invest in health care. You also had a very good plea for prevention this morning. I fully agree with that. It's the big picture. I think we should work with each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u99	I welcome these words from the new spokesperson of D66 on this issue. Logically, from the Animal Party there is much more to this point, the zoonotic threats we see. I am also pleased that there is support for taking those precautions as well. If we are going to table motions on this subject, I hope, therefore, that D66 will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u100	I see Mrs Paulusma giving a smile. That's an answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u101	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma. Then I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u103	It is good news that the catering industry is opening its doors again and it is also good news that the quarantine rules for schools are being relaxed. It is a bit late and too little, but fair is fair: it is a step in the right direction. It is therefore a fact that omikron has changed the situation dramatically. The number of infections is now going through the roof, but the ic occupation is decreasing and in the regular hospital departments we see an increase in the last few days, but the number of corona patients is almost halved in a month. So, with these figures, as a government, you really can't hold on to freedom-limiting measures anymore. It is therefore incomprehensible that the hospitality industry is being re-imposed on closing times and must work with these horrible tickets. Mr. Chairman. However, continuing with these tickets and 2G is therefore merely a political-ideological choice. Consider: there is the same virus everywhere and everywhere in the same variant, but where the measures are being phased out in the UK and Denmark, they are being scaled up in Austria, including a terrible vaccination obligation. So it's a political choice. Countries that lift the corona measures have seen it well. Mr. Chairman. Because omikron changes the situation, we also have to get rid of the current quarantine rules in our country, because over 6 million adult Dutch people have not reached the booster. That's too bad. Everyone has to put the booster if they want to, so voluntarily, but those 6 million are simply too many to introduce and apply a quarantine obligation. That quarantine obligation must therefore be removed, not only for those who have obtained a booster or for children, but for everyone. Those who are ill must, of course, stay at home, but for the rest, society cannot and must not get stuck. Mr. Chairman. All the signals are green, but if the cabinet thinks that Corona can still go wrong in our hospitals and if that is why there are still opening hours, why is the ic capacity constantly being scaled down? That doesn't make any sense. I hope we will have another attempt later to explain that to the Netherlands. Hence my question. I see the Minister nodding. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants more ic-capacity. So scaling up hospital care is the solution. That's what Dr. Kuipers felt when he wasn't a minister. Dear Minister Kuipers, you're in charge now. I'd like to ask you what you're waiting for. Mr. Chairman. To sum up: stop forcing people into quarantine without complaints, stop the corona admissions, stop imposing closing times for the catering industry and stop with that idiot G2. And please, Minister, do the right thing, invest in the care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the CDA welcomes the relaxations. We now need to focus on how we can open society even further and also keep it open. For example, the nighthoreca can't do anything at all and for the theatres it's still quite a challenge to organize it all with that end time of 10:00 p.m. Can the Minister indicate under which conditions and developments nighthoreca entrepreneurs and culture makers can stay open longer? I am also asking for this because of the scheme, the financial compensation, which I said last week too, many people see it as a dead sparrow. Under what conditions can young people return to school normally? Can some events be open only to young people? Student associations stress, through the LKvV, the importance of social contact for students, for students, for all young people. Can we also assume that there is no need for a corona pass for community centers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u106	An interruption by Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u107	Among other things, it deals with the cultural sector. Does Mrs. Van den Berg understand why that 10:00 p.m. time was set for everyone? It was first 5:00 p.m., then 8:00 p.m. and now 10:00 p.m. I find it difficult to explain myself that it would be wrong for theatre visitors to walk home at 11:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u108	I understand Mrs. Chicken's question. I also get reports about this, in the sense of: why can't it be for an hour longer, because that's all much easier for the whole organization? But I also think, having heard the security regions, that a clear time is extremely important for enforcement and communication. But that is why I am the first to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister under what conditions these opening hours can be extended further. That would indeed give a lot more air.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u109	The same police officers say: if you spread and ensure that everyone is inside for a certain time, then that should not be a big problem. Nor is it the case that they are groups or subgroups that then encounter each other and then cause nuisance on the street. So it all feels a little tricky. For example, Mrs Tielen started her contribution with: it must all be followable. I've been a corona spokesperson for a while now. However, it is increasingly difficult for me to explain which rule applies, with what logic and with what justification. That's where I'm standing, I guess, not alone in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u110	I've been a corona spokesperson since day one. So I can follow Mrs Kuik when she talks about the logic of all the measures. In my opinion, the cabinet has recognized this more often than not. Not everything can be cut with scissors. There are also grey areas. But on the other hand, I say looking back at the past two years: the fact that sometimes there were all kinds of different times has been one of the problems. That people now say "we'll do everything until the same time, and in three weeks we'll have another weighing moment," we as CDA can at least support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr Kuzu van DENK. No, it's not the end yet. Good of you to report that, Mr. Kuzu. Mrs Van den Berg continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. The CDA has scored seven points for that longer term. In this we go for less me and for more us, such as the willingness to adapt our behavior if it is necessary to stay healthy together, but then there must be those opportunities. Sports and exercise are essential as far as we are concerned. It is important that our adopted proposals on a health campaign and on the continuation of cultural education are well developed. We'd like to see a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Paulusma also mentioned it: centering corona care so that regular care can continue. That is one of those points. We have drawn attention to this in our proposal of 1 December. That too was supported. We would like to know what is going on with its implementation. One of last week's annexes was the report "Short-term scenario related to the omikron variant." It contains suggestions for a more effective organisation of care, such as the merging of routes in the district care. Can the Minister explain why this is not being used in the first place? This could also help to stimulate regular care. What about becoming self-sufficient in medical supplies? Our country and Europe need to get a better grip on this. Answers to my questions about the production of mouth caps do not reassure me. Health care institutions are buying in massive quantities again in China. Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. The CDA supports clarity in times and rules, as this makes enforcement easier. I just told Mrs. Chicken that. However, enforcement must be improved, also in order to avoid unfair competition. Now we can see that one organisation or one company is sticking to it, but not another organisation or another company. Mr. Chairman. It can't be that vandals who caused great damage last year during the coronarelles are not going to pay anything. Is there no alternative? Mr President, a few final questions. People have to wait three months for a booster after they've had corona. That means they're potentially going to have to quarantine for a month anyway. Are you sure you can't go any faster? As of 1 February, Germany appears not to accept evidence of a booster after the Jansen vaccination as a valid evidence. This is disastrous in general, but it is completely disastrous for people living in border regions. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. I got an e-mail from a woman who's been stuck to the house for two years. She has serious mental problems. She's trying to get a vaccination, but she's too young, and so she's not being helped. People who have been ill before being extensively tested two years ago ask me whether or not you can get a booster. Mr President, in general, I should like to conclude. I'm still getting a lot of questions about the validity of the corona tickets. What is going to happen on 1 February and when can you or can't get a booster? I think additional communication on this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you. Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u114	It is a good thing that I waited until the end, because last week I asked the Minister about the validity of, for example, such a recovery certificate. From 1 February it will be shortened to 180 days. How does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u115	I believe that last week the Minister indicated that this is being coordinated at European level. Well, I can imagine. The Netherlands is not an island. We may sometimes have a different opinion ourselves, but for traveling and for consultation and contact it is important that we all do the same. I always hope that this will be done on the basis of scientific research and on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u116	If you will allow me, Mr President, I would ask you not to count on this interruption, because I did not ask what the European Union thought of it. I asked how the CDA felt about that. So let me repeat: how does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u117	Maybe a point of order on my part. I note that a question is sometimes not answered in a very concrete way, but we have for a very long time just the rule that the Member of Parliament is about that. So you really need to make more effort to ask a clear question and get an answer. I also ask the Members of Parliament to answer the questions as clearly as possible. But we're not gonna negotiate the number of interruptions every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mr President, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mrs van den Berg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u120	It is not a problem to give the CDA's answer to that, Mr President, so I may have misread it - let me put it to that. But we support the Minister when he says that I am in favour of European agreements. And only within Europe, within that consultation, can you have a discussion: when is that 180 days, when is that 270 days, when is that 360 days? However, the CDA supports the cabinet in agreeing to it at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u121	The previous minister had a different commitment to this: he wanted to ensure that the recovery certificate, even Europeanly, would be valid in any case for a longer period of time. But the CDA just indicated that they thought it was important that it was based on scientific evidence, on research. And now you see that two investigations have been carried out. Pretty recently, one of the U.S. CDC, that's called "the American RIVM." And the conclusion of that study is that a through infection provides longer protection against another infection and hospitalization. So if you consider that kind of scientific research against the policy that is now valid in Europe, then there would be only one conclusion. In any case, a recovery certificate should be valid for at least as long as a vaccination certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u122	In any case, as the Netherlands, we have tried to stretch that. We also supported the Minister in that regard. But at some point, a large majority has taken a decision on this. But this morning at the technical briefing by Mr Van Dissel we also received other indications, namely that you may be better protected with vaccination than after a disease. And we also see that at this moment 13% of people are again infected with the omikron variant. So I don't have a personal opinion on that. I think it is important that we look at this and that this research is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mrs. Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we've both been running as corona speakers for a while, and I think we've both been hammering on healthier lives before; that's so important to fight a corona virus better and be able to handle it better, if you have corona. I'm curious. The CDA also makes regular motions about it. We voted on that yesterday, for example. But I'm curious: does the CDA have the feeling that in the last two years we've made some progress in that prevention story? Have we created more healthy lives, more sport, more movement? Do you feel like "we're already on our way"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u125	I agree with Mrs Van Esch. If you look at what it's done over the last two years, I think the awareness has gotten bigger. But whether that has really led to more action, I have a question of my own. But this is precisely why we have asked the Minister that, in this long-term approach he is going to send to the Chamber, a health campaign is definitely part of it. Because it is nice that we have talked more about this, but it is now also important that more is going to happen now. And these are matters of the longer term anyway, because if you haven't done enough exercise and sports for years, then you haven't fixed it within a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u126	Once, and fine to set up such a campaign. We are very much in favour of this. However, I am curious whether the CDA also feels that we have asked a lot over the last two years and have indicated very much how important that is, but perhaps now we should actually start using some more concrete and perhaps even harder measures, and perhaps work on that sugar tax more quickly, and perhaps work more quickly on those points in the coalition agreement, in order to really take those steps now. Because we can launch a health campaign, we can talk about healthier life for another two years, but I think that these essential issues are actually on the agenda. I wonder if the CDA feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u127	I understand Mrs Van Esch's remark about 'if you set up such a campaign, then you have to support it with other measures'. We are gradually entering another stage of the disease. Because I think this has also come about because we have spent two years giving it all the energy and attention to ensure that care is not overtaken, and that we have therefore taken so many stringent measures for society. I think it was actually the focus to keep everyone on track, and therefore there was too little on the prevention side. So that absolutely needs to be given more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u128	I just heard the CDA say that there are indications that the antibodies in the blood may be reduced more quickly with a booster than with a natural infection. I thought I just heard you say that. The reason I'm going to say that is because we heard it this morning from the briefing. I think that's really weird. We have had a study of Sanquin in the Netherlands, in our own country, with our own population, and it turned out that that is not the case. Then how come I suddenly hear both here and this morning that it's the other way around? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u129	I understand this morning that there's a discussion about when you're better protected: if you've been through the disease or if you've had the vaccinations and the booster. I understood this morning that the latter may be the case: vaccination and booster. I remember the previous debate. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij in particular asked to what extent a serological test, which Sanquin does with large groups, can show that someone has enough antibodies in his body that would not require such vaccination, for example. Of this, the Minister explained last time that there was a discussion on how many antibodies there should be to describe that as sufficient. In this respect, we, as CDA, are therefore open to all options, so to speak. I don't have a specific opinion on that. The point is that people are as protected as possible. So far we have been told that this is either with 'one illness and two vaccinations' or with 'two vaccinations and a booster'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u130	But Sanquin has done research among our own people in the Netherlands, and it has come out that you are better protected if you have passed through a natural contamination. I heard a whole different story this morning. I keep finding that weird. It was asked this morning, and then you get a waterfall of words, without really going into it. That problem has also been raised here today. I don't understand. People around here always say they go after science. And if there's an investigation in the Netherlands by Sanquin, why don't we just keep that report until there might be reports that claim otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u131	Of course, I would also like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. But I've always understood that Sanquin's investigations are major investigations. So they don't say anything about the individual protection of a person. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP. Go ahead, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would not be the first time that the end of the current pandemic has been announced, and it would not be the first time that it has turned out differently. Perhaps there are so many infections that the pressure on care is too great. Perhaps a new variant, as it is now in Denmark, is still throwing soot in the food. I would like to know from the cabinet what they are looking at now, with the large number of infections that are now threatening and the relaxations that are being carried out. How are we going to prevent us from getting back to a point where operations have to be cancelled again in February? Mr. Chairman. The test streets can barely handle it anymore, and the cabinet calls for more self-tests. If the cabinet wants the GGD to be relieved, the SP believes that these self-tests should also be free of charge for people. If you are a family of four, then doing a self-test will soon cost €10 at a time. If you had to do that several times a week, that is not to be paid for many Dutch families. We do not want a division in which people who have a lot of money do have the space and luxury to test themselves a few weeks, and others do not. That is why I say it again: if there is a public interest that more is being tested yourself, make those tests free of charge. Mr. Chairman. By many people omikron is now considered a kind of rescue. I heard it again today. "Fortunately, we now have a variant that makes us less ill." But I don't think that's the right story. The right story must be of course: fortunately we have so many people in our country who have been vaccinated and so many people who have had a booster, so we are no longer sick of the virus that is going around so ferociously. Our society can stay open if we are well protected against this virus, and we do so mainly through vaccination. The SP would like to know from the Minister what the long-term plan is now. Does the cabinet want to continue with the boosters as we do now? Or are we going to go more towards an annual shot, like we do with flu, protecting vulnerable people, the elderly, from this virus? I would also like to know what this choice, boosters or an annual prick means for the corona pass and its shelf life, because many people are very concerned about that. Mr. Chairman. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the SP has been dedicated to our healthcare providers and to the best possible protective equipment for these healthcare providers. We have already asked for a solution for the hundreds of healthcare professionals who have become ill, especially in the first wave, and who are still at home with long-term covid complaints. These caregivers often had to do their job at the beginning of the outbreak without proper protection. They have sacrificed their own health to help and care for other people. However, it is precisely these caregivers who are now at risk of losing their jobs and income, because they are unable to work because of their corona contamination, even if sometimes they were long ago. The SP believes that there really needs to be a solution for this group. We cannot allow these people to lose their jobs and incomes, especially after the heroic work they have done in recent years. I would also ask the Minister to help these people to meet them. Finally, Mr President. For a year and a half we have been asking the cabinet what exactly is the effect of the measures taken on that notorious R-value, the R-number. We have never received decent figures from this cabinet, but now, when it comes to tickets, the Minister can say it quite precisely: the use of corona tickets would lead to a reduction of 15%. Millions of people heard the Minister repeat that again yesterday in the press conference. But this isn't right at all. That 15%, which the Minister mentioned again yesterday, is purely theoretical. It only applies, in theory, if you put 3G anywhere, except at home and at school, and if people without a ticket wouldn't look up any other contacts elsewhere. I do not think it is right for the Minister to misrepresent so many people watching that press conference in this way. It also promises little good for the future. He needs to tell the honest story and use numbers that actually make sense. Above all, the SP believes that all measures which are not demonstrably effective, but which affect our free society, should be stopped as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u135	Are you always this organized, Mrs. Chicken? Absolutely! Mr. Chairman. Maybe it also fits this situation: from 0 to 100 kilometers in a few seconds, and now hope Max Verstappen is behind the wheel. That's what it feels like now in terms of relaxation. Of course, we all yearn for normal life again. However, I find it a little difficult to place what choices the cabinet is making now and under what conditions. When I look at the press conference, I feel that the cabinet itself sometimes feels that way. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have the following questions. The cabinet has three objectives: to see the virus, to maintain care and to protect the vulnerable. First of all, we have a visual on the virus. I can't do that right now. The GGD is at the maximum test capacity. You will not get there with the help of Testing for Access. The source and contact research is no longer taking place. The figures are getting more and more clouded. Self-testing is not yet available for free. Then how do we keep an eye on the virus at this stage? Secondly, to maintain hospital care and normal care. The number of hospital admissions is going to increase, but we don't know how many. Scale up is not going to happen for the time being, and in the meantime, care still has to catch up and people are still waiting for surgery. Moreover, at the moment code black is threatening long-term care. An institution in the southern part of the country, VWS, is in contact with it, says: out of over 5,000 employees, more than 600 are ill. This week they're gonna make it, but next week they're gonna have code black. So it's not done yet. So my question is as well: how do we maintain care and how do we react to this? Thirdly, protect the vulnerable. The Prime Minister actually said, "You'll figure it out yourself." But how can you protect yourself if your children do have to go to school or if you have to go to school yourself, where you may be vulnerable, if you do not yet have the right to free mouth caps, if self-tests are only available if ventilation is not in order, if boosters for young people are not yet available, et cetera, et cetera? How do we protect the vulnerable now, in a situation where we just let a lot of things rake out? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures taken by the cabinet itself. I have already asked a number of questions about this, but one important question is: how is enforcement going? For example, we saw in the catering industry that only 66% maintained on the corona tickets. How do we know that's gonna be any better? That's what I'd like to know from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u136	I hear Mrs Kuiken making a plea, which has been taken from my heart for catching up, for the people on the waiting lists. There's an exciting balance in that. What did you think of the proposal I made in my speech to see if we could center the less intensive covid care in a reserve hospital so that more capacity could be available for the people on the waiting list?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u137	The proposal for separate corona departments, separate corona hospitals, has already been made. I know that Mr Kuipers was in favour of this in his previous role. I see that this is now being waived, but I would say: do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mrs. Pauluma, no? Please continue, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u139	I asked about enforcement, because it is important if we want this to work and if we want to make it to spring without chunks. But even if that succeeds, there are still major problems for those entrepreneurs who have suffered damage and are still suffering damage, for those entrepreneurs who are far from open, for the festival sector, for the clubs. The latter aren't even mentioned. They have constantly invested in safety, but they are still not getting it. When do they get perspective? Isn't it wise for these entrepreneurs to just invest in 1G instead of saying they can't? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. This also applies to our young people. Even though there will be more perspective now, even if they can have a drink later on on the terrace, the number of suicide attempts is hugely high. The number of notifications at the ggz is huge. The waiting lists are huge, too. So there must also be attention for them and prospects for the coming months. I also think that we should have a separate debate on this as a Chamber. I have proposals for this, and I would like to pay attention to that. Finally, Mr President. I want to learn from the past, too. I understand that the report of the OVV, the Security Research Council, is now also ready. I would like to know from the cabinet: is that correct and when can that be sent to the Chamber? Finally, Mr President. There have been several calls in this house for attention to the problems of people with long covid. They are now also running into a WIA deadline. There's still no compensation fund. For them too, this pandemic is far from over. How is the cabinet going to act in that regard? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u140	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mrs Kuik also spoke about the position of young people. We hear that, I think, all of them, and we also see that in the reports. The implementation test also shows that young people are affected at the very heart of their social lives. I am actually curious to see what Mrs Kuik's proposals are. Perhaps there are plans that we can already say to each other: do the same!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u142	I have a lot of plans, but I'm a little hesitant because I actually want to bring that to the fore this week. But let me start with two things. Firstly, I am going to propose a hearing with young people tomorrow at the procedural meeting with D66. Secondly, I would like to have a separate debate. So that's a process. But there are all kinds of things that need to be addressed. Think of the waiting lists problem, the way young people are now running into school disadvantages, how we can provide this grace and how a pause button can be pressed. In short, at school as well as mentally and mentally I would like to do more about that. My answer is far too short, but otherwise I will be here for ten minutes, because I have many more ideas. I would also like to associate Mr Van der Staaij with this. But that is one of the reasons why my colleague Habtamu and I are starting a youth tour on Monday. In this case, it's in Leeuwarden. We will talk to 120 young people there about how they have experienced this corona time and how they would like us to ensure that we provide their perspective for the future in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u143	It is very good that this is happening and that we are talking about it in greater detail. At the same time, we are still faced with restrictions, including for example with the activities of student associations. The question is very specific: how do we deal with it? So I hope that the desire to go into this separately and more comprehensively does not mean that if we now run into things that we think should be broader, we will not be advocating it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u144	It's a broad question. So it's a pity we don't have enough time to really get into the debate on it. That's why I said let's do it separately. But let me give you one more example. That's why I went to the Chicago Social Club in Amsterdam on Friday, where young people liked to go. That club's been closed for months now. So I would also like to endorse earlier proposals, as Mrs Westerveld has done. Isn't 1G an option for clubs like this where young people can come together in a safe setting, so they don't have to go to illegal parties? They deserve that relaxation, too. That is only a very brief answer to the much broader question that Mr Van der Staaij has put to me. Indeed, I would like to come back to him on that. I would like us to have ten minutes of speaking time during this debate, because then I would be able to work out many more proposals very comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u145	There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mrs. Chicken doesn't expect that. I don't think I've ever interrupted her in a Corona debate. But I do now, because I have a question. I know that Mrs. Kuik is also a fan of festivals and clubs. Mrs Westerveld is a big fan of that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u147	You too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u148	Well, festivals aren't like that. I like village festivals. That might be a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u149	I like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u150	Pulling a trigger or something, I'll like that a lot. And the Black Cross, of course, not to mention. But that aside. There's something crazy going on here, and I'd like to put it to Mrs. Kuik. Braderies are shaved under events. So they actually have to meet the same conditions as the Black Cross. A weekly market in Groningen and Hoog Catharijne are places where many people come. Those people don't need a CTB. Those places don't have to have entrance and exit, they don't have to meet all those conditions. I am considering a motion on that point to see if some relaxation can be introduced into the permits for those fairs in those villages. Will Mrs. Kuiks think about that? That question also applies to Mrs Westerveld. Can they support me in that? How does Mrs. Chicken feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u151	First of all, I think that there is indeed a weird pair of scissors. That goes for more things. At the same time I have a bit of a "half hour curfew" trauma. That is the trauma that we here as a Chamber are going to do a little bit of fuss with here an hour less and there or not an event. But I do agree with Mrs Van der Plas. So I just want to think about it. For the people at home: here in this Chamber, we are mainly supposed to approve or not approve things on the broad lines. If we say "this little event or that little event" then that also feels a bit weird. So there's always my doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u152	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u153	This is a bit of a gap between urban and rural thinking. 8 to 9 million people live in the regions of the Netherlands. There are a lot of villages and small places that organize these kinds of events. Mrs. Kuik compares this to the "half hour curfew" trauma. I think that's different. It's actually said a little bit: that little stuff, those little fairies. But that really happens a lot in the Netherlands. That's what millions of people come for every year. I would like to give Mrs Kuik a few words: don't think too lightly about it, because what is very painful for us is for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u154	I myself come from a village of 2,000 people. I'm from the village parties, the fairs and the fairs and with great pleasure, so I don't take anything small away from that. I always find it a little difficult; closing the cultural sector at 10 p.m. does not make any sense either. A number of other things that have now been cut don't make any sense to me either. The way the clubs are treated now does not make any sense to me either. So for me, nothing is small beer. However, I am honest that I sometimes find it difficult to consider what we in the Chamber say: we do and we do not. Because whatever you do, it's never fair. I hope, however, that Mrs van der Plas does not put me in the position to move this away as a small beer, because I myself come from the region, as you can secretly hear a little bit of my tongue fall on good days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u156	Mrs. Kuik made a glowful speech for the young. I can only support that. I was very curious, as a CDA we asked the cabinet: could you allow certain events or activities only for young people? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u157	Last year it was proposed, among other things for the clubs, everything under 25. That led to a lot of protests, because that was discrimination because some people here in this room sometimes come into a club with my staff and myself. I think that's a tricky distinction, so I see more benefit in the first instance in the alternatives of 1G. But I, too, continue to look at situations where we are ensuring that it opens as soon as possible in those sectors which have been closed for months and have actually been closed for the last two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week I read a column by Richard Heuveling in newspaper De Gelderlander. That may not be the most famous columnist in the Netherlands, but I find him sometimes when I ride my bike to the football club. So he also writes pieces for the newspaper. Last week he wrote a piece about how we all get carried away sometimes too much. He tapped: "Nuance by proper information. We lost that. (...) Unfortunately, there are many people who no longer listen to others and are sucked into the swamp of their own equal." I cared about his heart cry, because we'll have to get on with each other. But how do we ensure that we can continue together? Mr. Chairman. Trust in politics has never been so low. Of course, that has several reasons; first of all, fake news that some people are spreading. But in the last two years, of course, the cabinet has often outlined perspectives that have not been entirely fulfilled. Sometimes that is simply because we were overtaken by new scientific knowledge or were overtaken by the virus. There is nothing to be done about that, but it would be good to admit it openly. From time to time, predictable policies were also lacking. Although, occasionally? Often we have thought: what will happen in the coming time? Just because predictable policies were lacking, you also saw that sometimes there seemed to be a struggle between the best lobbyists; did you see that sectors often point to others and thought: why them and not us? This, of course, also undermines the idea of "together." Mr. Chairman. Finally, the decision-making process also gives little confidence, as far-reaching decisions are sometimes announced as if there is no control body anymore. Of course there is: that is here, the House of Representatives. This week, as a controlling MP, I cannot perform my duties properly again. The key question of this debate is: are we relaxing too much now, or perhaps we are relaxing too little? Of course, as a person I would prefer to relax as much as possible, we naturally want everything to be possible again. However, in order to be able to do our job properly and to control the cabinet, we expect to have a basis in the documents. This shows that the RIVM has only modelled an evening closure until 5 p.m. So we don't know what a night lock from 8:00 a.m. does with the number of infections and hospitalizations. And we certainly don't know what an evening close from 10:00 p.m. does, as the Cabinet has announced. My question to the cabinet is simple: has this model been made at all? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes what is not said is what matters most. That's how I heard Prime Minister Rutte openly tell us at the press conference that he finds the relaxations exciting, and a risk. What he's not saying is what he finds exciting about these relaxations and who's at risk. Is he worried about the workload of caregivers? Or is the Prime Minister concerned about people with vulnerable health who are almost certainly going to get sick because of this infectious variant? Or is he concerned about the House's subsequent criticism, or about the growing tensions in society? The NCTV also says that there has never been so much social displeasure in our society. I hope for an open and honest answer from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. In the press conference, the Prime Minister and the Minister stressed the importance of the basic measures. Quite right, of course, because it shouldn't depend on your wallet if you can protect yourself and others from corona. In December, a motion from us was adopted to deal with this. Its implementation is extremely disappointing. That is why the question: is the cabinet prepared to consider self-tests and mouth caps as a public provision? If so, is the cabinet prepared to make serious work of making self-tests and mouth caps available free of charge? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. If there is one sector that has been hit hard in recent years, it is the cultural sector. Then it is not about whether or not to open an hour longer, but it is about inadequate support measures for people who need it so badly. I am glad that the curtain will open again later, but the perspective is still lacking. I have two questions about that and then I'll close up. My first question is this. Rooms, but also football stadiums, for example, could be fuller in a safe way if we bet on more testing. Why isn't that done? My final question is: can the cabinet explain today about the compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u160	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A new phase in the crisis: torrential contamination rates and yet relaxing. This seems to be possible thanks to the high vaccination rate, the booster campaign and the milder omikron variant. But it's still exciting to relax now. We, too, can see that the lockdown was no longer proportional. Many have already spoken about it: the culture sector is crying out murder and fire when it comes to the current situation and also the financial situation. To implement the new measure of closing at 10 p.m., as we hear from you, is a major problem. A lot of people would like that hour anyway. I agree that we in the House of Representatives should not add that hour or that hour, but I am curious about the reaction of this government at that hour. Could this not contribute to the much better enforcement of the measure in the municipalities? Repression is harder to maintain than support. It is understandable that the cabinet is relaxing the quarantine rules for children, but my group is concerned about the students. Digital education has a particularly negative impact on their well-being. Does the Cabinet have information on how many students are still receiving digital lessons at the moment? How is the cabinet going to help the educational institutions to make education fully physically possible again? It is precisely now that things seem to be getting better that the future scenarios need to be considered. About how to deal with a new variant and even how to deal with a new virus. I have seen very little of that so far. As far as we are concerned, that is not a good sign. There has been talk for six months, but there is still no long-term strategy. No patents are being released to increase the production capacity of vaccines in the rest of the world. Then where are the measures that allow people to live healthier lives? How can the Tax Office abolish the tax on savings for the rich, but cannot it accept a reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables? Is the monitoring of new virus variants in order at the moment? Is the updated schedule for incoming travellers ready now? Because it is precisely with a newer variant that good source and contact research is indispensable. Due to years of neglect, the GGDs are not well prepared for a new pandemic. How is it possible that the GGDs still don't have enough money to control that pandemic preparedness? Mr. Chairman. Those who listened to scientists could have seen the corona pandemic coming and could have prepared the GGDs for that. The cabinet chose to close its eyes, despite the enormous havoc that the previous zoonoses, the Q fever, had already caused in our country. There is still a lack of reflection. The approach to avian flu is a frightening example of this. More than 1 million animals have already been gassed in the Netherlands. At least 60 people have been infected abroad and half of them have already died. If the human virus becomes transmitted to humans, the avian flu can become the new corona. Virologists often warn us about this. Last week, the VWS Minister promised us a letter. We also received a letter from the Minister of Agriculture. The warnings of virologists are therefore directed to deaf ears in this cabinet. A high risk to public health is left to LNV. And LNV makes mistakes. Mammals that may have died of avian influenza or perhaps corona, are currently being disposed of without investigation for destruction. The Minister of VWS must take the lead. Take precautions. Have all the dead animals examined. Don't fill up those stables again. I'd like a response from the US Secretary of State to this. I'd like to get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u162	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you, Madam President. I am replacing Mr Mirjam Bikker today, who cannot participate for personal reasons. I'm doing that replacement with a lot of joy. Madam President. I welcome the enlargements announced yesterday. I am also pleased that, through the Minister of VWS, Minister Kuipers, it has been explicitly said that a broader consideration has been made and that this has also been looked at, for example, the mental situation of young people. That's what I'm really worried about. This deserves our attention and it is very good that this broader consideration has been made so. I can see that step very well, too. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to Mr Tielen's motion, which was adopted yesterday, which was also supported by us. It calls for broadening policy objectives and adapting the decision-making structure accordingly. In my words: besides the OMT, there should also be an IMT, an Impact Management Team. The Chamber had asked for this once before, by means of a motion that I had tabled myself. That has not been followed up and I have always found that very unfortunate. My question now is, after this motion: how will the cabinet adapt this in the decision-making structure? Does the OMT opinion, for example, already have an equal voice in the consideration of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Troika? How do we ensure that we make that broad assessment, also explicitly? Then test it. Testing is crucial. The OMT advises to make those tests available for free. Mr Hijink pointed this out. The cabinet doesn't take that advice, and my question is: why not? Are there sufficient tests in stock to deliver to educational institutions? For people with a narrow scholarship, testing and mouth nose masks are available in more and more places, including through municipalities. How many tests are provided to municipalities? Is that enough if, for example, everyone in the assistance wants to take a test twice a week? Then, Madam President, the Corona ticket and the long-term measures. I have already interrupted Mr Tielen on this point. This'll keep me busy. Maybe we are not saying the last word about this now, but I think we should debate it very strongly, especially in view of the next phase of what is now a pandemic and which may be going to an endemic phase. The corona ticket must be shown again in catering, museums and indoor sports, but now also in non-essential services, such as amusement parks. My question is: what is the basis for young people to justify the need to be vaccinated or boosterd? What is the state of affairs for the exception of people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons and cannot be tested? Why does the cabinet want to keep the corona pass so prominently in the toolbox? Why deal with the legislative proposals for education, work and also 2G now, when they cannot be used effectively in time for this omikron wave? But more fundamental. There is a relationship of trust between government and society, in which the government has asked society to give up some of that freedom in exchange for public health. That is the responsibility of the cabinet. It's a relationship of trust that only stays in place if you do it on good grounds. If we go to a new phase and there is a new context with new circumstances, and we ask for the same freedom to be given, then that relationship of trust will come under pressure. Especially when there is another pandemic and society needs to be called upon to surrender freedom. For the Christian Union Group, it is clear: a new phase around corona means that we cannot proceed in the same way. If the context changes, the proportionality of legislation needs to be re-weighted. At the endemic stage, current legislation is not proportionate. The corona admission ticket has always been used as a temporary measure. At the very end of the day, my question to the cabinet is: does the cabinet also see that it has an obligation to the citizens not to betray that confidence, and can we quickly anticipate the weighting of proportionality as the extension of the temporary law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. Chairman. With the arrival of omikron, more and more people are beginning to realize that corona is not a dangerous virus at all. We have known this for years since the World Health Organisation determined the mortality rate at 0.23%, roughly equivalent to that of a heavy flu. Nevertheless, the cabinet, the previous cabinet and about the entire Chamber have chosen for two years to impose the most draconian measures on society. As a result, 50% of young people today, according to EenVandaag's research, suffer from psychological complaints, that entrepreneurs have seen their life's work collapse, that children grow up in fear, that families and groups of friends have been torn apart, and that elderly people have only lonely died. Yesterday, the cabinet extended the corona pass to new sectors, despite the fact that TU Delft's research showed that it has little or little effect. But we've known that for a long time. How can it be effective if the vaccine does not work and vaccinees are just contagious? How can it be effective if vaccinees get a green check mark despite a positive test? How can it be if the QR code is applied in places where there are hardly any infections? Why have all these terrible measures been taken when they had nothing to do with public health? We get the answer from the European Commission. For example, we read on the research platform Follow the Money: "The design of the European corona app was only a first version of what could develop into a perfect digital wallet," says the European Commission to Follow the Money. This development is moving fast, the spokesperson reports. In the coming months, we will continue to work on this with the Member States. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore who is involved on behalf of our government. We also read: "A digital test and vaccination certificate will help the entire field of digital ID on the way. It's not just about COVID-19, it's about something much bigger." That's what Andrew Bud said in February this year in the business magazine Forbes. This is the founder and director of iProov, a London based company that sells facial recognition technology and developed the British corona app. The French defence company Thales reports on their website that the corona evidence will serve as the stepping stone for the introduction of a digital ID certificate. What is that, a digital ID, anyway? A digital ID is the central place where all kinds of personal data can be collected and stored that can be accessed on companies and governments, with which every user on the internet can be realized and traced back to one person. That means lifting anonymity on the Internet. That means the end of privacy. That means that every payment, every comment, every tweet, but also medical data can be linked to you as a person. This also means that public authorities and companies can set conditions for access to facilities based on such data. What we have now seen with the QR code of the corona app is that you will only have access to social life if you have, at the moment, obtained a vaccine and from now on also a booster. Freedom has become conditional and dependent on good behavior. We know this system from China, a social credit system. Depending on how Chinese behave, they may or may not have access to payments, may or may not be allowed on holiday, determine whether they have access to public transport, or whether they have access to sports and nightlife. Shops and other facilities are no longer accessible to them. They are even assessed on the basis of common contacts as to whether or not they are a good citizen. Mr. Chairman. Of course China is at a much more advanced stage, but it is all possible with digital identity, also warn experts and scientists in the piece of Follow the Money. The VVD is in favour of introducing such a digital ID. That's what I read in their election program. The government agreement also expresses the ambition to take the lead in the development of a digital identity. It's very dangerous. The corona passes aren't working and there's no reason to think they are. It's not about the corona. It is about building a permanent digital infrastructure for a central digital identity. We are being tampered with under false pretenses, under the guise of public health, in a very scary control system. FVD will fight this with a hand and a tooth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u166	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks and then by Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u167	I have a question on this point. The corona access card is easily aligned with a social credit system. I would like to ask Mr Jansen whether, if a social credit system is ever to be introduced in the Netherlands, I agree that a very careful and comprehensive legislative proposal should be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u168	No, because I don't want a social credit system in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u169	That is exactly my point, because I do not want a social credit system in the Netherlands either. That is exactly why we should talk about this here in the House of Representatives, if such proposals are made. There's never been such a proposal here. There have indeed been proposals on the corona pass. As a Lower House, we were lucky enough to ring the bell. If that proposal is made, it will be discussed in detail here and debated. I just want to move away from the suggestion that parties who are in favour of corona measures to protect vulnerable people would automatically be in favour of a credit system. Because I'm not and I don't think anyone is here in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u170	I am glad that you say that, but I also hope that you realise that this corona evidence can lead to that. I'm not the only one who says that. I gave some quotes from the companies that made that corona app. I will read the quote again: "a digital test and vaccination certificate will help the entire field of digital ID on the way; that is not just about COVID-19, but about something much bigger." That was a quote from Andrew Bud, developer of the British corona app. These people, who are making this, are far beyond "we now have a QR code for vaccines." It's about a lot more than that. It's not just Andrew Bud from the English corona app. This is discussed at European level. Ursula von der Leyen recorded an entire video about how fantastic it is to have a digital ID. At the same time, she says that the corona app is a makeover, a first version as they call it, of a much more extensive social credit system. That's a word you can use for it. At least it's a digital identity. At the moment, of course, it is not equivalent to a social credit system, but it is the first step. It's a beta phase, a 0.1-version of a social credit system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u172	So you need a parliament to keep control of every measure that is tightened up and to vote against it if we do not agree. I think we should have that discussion here. I really want to get rid of the suggestion that it leads one to another automatically, because that is not so and happy but.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u173	Okay. I hope you will continue to say that until the end of the days. I hope that will indeed be the opinion of this Chamber. Because that's what I'm worried about. I hope that this will remain, that we will abolish this again and that it will not lead to anything further. A lot of people warn about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u174	Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u175	Everyone has a right to their own concerns, but there is no need to worry about this, because there is no beginning of a majority, let alone a substantial minority, which is in favour of a social credit system. There isn't one. That's not gonna happen. I have another question. I would like to refer to one sentence by colleague Jansen. He said the vaccine isn't working. We saw visuals yesterday, beautiful pictures of the Minister of VWS, who made it very clear what the vaccine is working. You saw the Dutch population, which part has been vaccinated, which part has been boosted and which part has not been vaccinated, a small minority. There was also an overview of what it's like in the hospital. He said: if you put the ic next time, it would be completely understandable that a vaccine does make a difference. Where exactly wasn't the information from the U.S. Secretary of State? In what way does Mr Jansen have information that undermines what Minister Kuipers made so visually clear yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u176	I will answer that in a moment, but I will also take up the first point made by Mr Segers. I am very glad that he has just spoken out against the 2G system. I think that's very important. It's also in line with Mrs Westerveld. As long as the Chamber continues to do so, we can't get into that doom scenario. So I hope it stays that way. Appreciate that. Then there's the other point. It's kind of the definition of when a vaccine works. It may have some effect on the degree of disease and that kind of thing, but in the classic definition of vaccines that would not be the case. You don't get a little polio when you take a polio vaccine. We see that infection can still occur among vaccinees. As far as things work, this doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u177	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u178	I think that's a very special reasoning. I'm very much in favour of the freedom of non-vaccines. If you choose freely not to be vaccinated for any reason, I think you should have that freedom. But you can't say the vaccine doesn't make any difference. Once again the visual overview given by Mr Kuipers. Look how many green dolls, so vaccinated people, end up in the hospital. That's a few compared to people who haven't been vaccinated. And with the ic, that's exactly the way it is. That's sometimes the difference between living, living and dying. That's very digital. Quite precisely: Mr Kuipers showed those records with what the difference is. Still, you can or can have a reason to say: I don't want to. Fine, but don't tell me vaccination doesn't make any difference. If vaccination would make no difference, you must now show that Mr Kuipers did not speak the truth yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u179	Okay, now you're saying it makes a difference. Those weren't my words. I believe that these vaccines do not work, when we would need strong social intervention according to the government's own reasoning, in order to achieve their effect. If they were working, we wouldn't need a 3G policy to make sure people don't all end up in hospital. If the vaccine worked, as we've always found a vaccine works if it works, people wouldn't get sick anymore and they wouldn't hand it over. And it still does. We now need all kinds of booster campaigns every time to get the small amount of antibodies generated in the mRNA event back on track. But it doesn't work like a vaccine has always worked. So in that sense, no, it doesn't work. We shouldn't need all these measures if it did work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u180	I would remind Mr Jansen that, like all of us here, he took the oath or vow to the Constitution. Article 22 is quite clear: we all have a public health task here. You say a number of things here and you repeat very important pieces of information. The coronavirus is one of the coronaviruses that exist. The vaccine before that is not a sterile vaccine. I don't know if you know these differences...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u181	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u182	... but once vaccinated doesn't mean you're protected for the rest of your life. That is a fundamental difference. The WHO has never said that it is a sterile vaccination. RIVM never said that either. But by throwing that kind of crucial information at one heap, you contribute to disinformation and you are unconstitutionally engaged, contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u183	I find this suggestion disgusting and objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u184	I find your disinformation disgusting and objectionable. And now back to your task of defending public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u185	I would like to ask you a question, Mrs Güntoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u186	It's a question. Does he want to respond once to the difference between sterile and non-sterile vaccinations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u187	We can have a very semantic discussion about it. In popular terms, vaccines have been used for a long time. Normally, when parents get a shot with their kids, they assume: if my kid gets a polioprik now, he doesn't get a polio. If my kid gets a measles shot, my kid doesn't get measles. That used to be a very normal expectation of vaccination. Do you agree or not? I thought that used to be perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u188	It's not about what I think. It is about the definition and the different forms of vaccination. What you're talking about are sterile vaccinations. A flu vaccine is also not a sterile vaccination. You must make a clear distinction between the type of vaccine and the type of virus. But you won't. You thus contribute to disinformation. And you may not even see it, but you really do. That is unconstitutional, because you took an oath on, among other things, Article 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you. I would ask you to speak through the chairman, Mrs Gündoğan. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u190	I can't do much with this. This is a bit excessive, to start talking about the Constitution and about disinformation. Oh, come on! Just calm down. There's no question of that at all, is there? We have a disagreement here about what a vaccine is. We're having a disagreement about whether or not a vaccine works. I have just been interrupted by Mr Segers. And now it's drawn in a context of unconstitutionality. Oh, that's so exaggerated. That's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u191	An opinion is that I like your suit or not, or that I like your shoes or not. Peer reviewed science, knowledge, is not an opinion. There is simply consensus on this internationally on all continents. That you distance yourself from that, you may, but you must come up with better peer reviews. Then you'll just have to publish it in The Lancet and you name it. Then we'll listen to you. But in the meantime, you have an opinion. That opinion is here and the facts are there. What you are doing is undermining the facts and thus undermining public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u192	First of all, I think that is very much exaggerated. But secondly, the picture is sketched here as if my opinion would cause all kinds of people to die now. I think that's a disgusting suggestion. But the policies of your party and of all those other parties have caused entrepreneurs to see their whole lives collapse, that children grow up in total fear and that young people are now all becoming depressed. That is the result of your policy, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u193	Mr. Jansen, there are two more people who would like to have a debate with you. First of all, Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u194	I think we should just look at the case very soberly. We both address Minister Kuipers when he uses the wrong figures in a press conference about the effectiveness of corona tickets. That is also our task; we must check the facts. But that also means that we ourselves have a responsibility to stick to the same facts. If you say the vaccines aren't working, you're just talking nonsense. You may be right to say that the vaccines are less effective against the transmission of the virus. That is a fact; no one denies it. But the fact is that the only reason why the hospitals aren't flooding now is that we've been vaccinated to such an extent in our country. Since vaccination, not only in the Netherlands, but everywhere in the world, hospital admissions have been reduced to a great deal. Those are the facts. You can talk to the Minister if he's talking nonsense, but don't talk nonsense yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you. Mr. Jansen. I also ask you to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u196	I will refrain from the semantic discussion about whether or not vaccines are working. We can speculate on that for a long time. Maybe a nuance is needed; that will all be fine. However, the effectiveness of these measures and the impact of the booster campaign are at issue. We saw from about 20 January I refer to the beautiful dashboard of the RIVM that the trend was already going on. That was a week before those measures were imposed. That's when it happened. We're just already in a normal seasonal effect for what happens to the virus. When we talk about peer-reviewed studies: there is a very nice paper published in the paper "Stanford" has done research on this, but another paper has been published by French researchers that has looked at all the countries in the world. I'll send you that paper. I can have that sent around later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u198	It looked at 196 countries and at all kinds of factors that have or have not affected the number of deaths caused by corona in those countries. These are all kinds of factors: climate, age of the population, economic factors, health factors. A list of twenty different factors. And what did these investigators find? Precisely that non-pharmaceutical intervention, so the lockdowns, the corona passes, mouth caps and that sort of thing, had virtually zero effect. No, one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u199	You're a little too extensive. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u200	The final point: the greatest effect that came out of that study was obesity. That's something we don't do anything about. We've been in this corona time for years now. Then the gyms close and the McDonald's stay open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you. I shall give the floor to Mr Hijink, and then to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u202	This is not, of course, a question of nuanced thinking or of nuances in the facts. The facts are quite clear: since vaccination in our country, hospitalizations, mortality and the number of people who end up on the ic have fallen dramatically. Just look at the facts as they are. How's the line-up on ICU? To a large extent, in relative terms, these are people who haven't had a vaccine. You can find that annoying because it doesn't fit into your political circle, but those are facts too, Mr. Jansen. You have to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u203	Firstly, this is factually incorrect. The number of deaths has increased compared to 2020, so that is not true. What is still striking about the mortality rate is that this excess mortality is inexplicable to a very large extent. This was also mentioned today in a publication by the CBS. You may have seen it. That excess mortality can't be explained by corona. 13,000 to 14,000 people have died more than you would expect from the years before corona. It's not due to corona. What the hell is it? Maybe it's the vaccines. So it's certainly not the case that since those vaccination programs started, the number of deaths has fallen. In fact, it just went up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u204	I'd like to respond to the latter. I think the Cabinet has promised to investigate the cause of the excess mortality. However, I find it particularly regrettable to make a suggestion at this stage that it would be because of the vaccines. I would also like to call on Mr Gündoğan and Mr Gündoğan of Volt to take back the words 'vaccines do not work'. 'Cause maybe Mr. Jansen forgot we ever had tetanus injections. You needed it every few years. And what have we seen in recent years? The Minister has to improve me if I'm wrong. I know that's what I needed every five years as a kid, and not at all these days. Why? Because those vaccines are getting better and better. But that doesn't mean they didn't provide protection. They sometimes gave temporary protection, or they made sure you had a lot less chance of getting that infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u205	I was just saying, maybe that phrase needs to be a little more nuanced. It could be. But I do support that. I don't think you can say these vaccines work the way you'd expect them to work. The infections just go on; people just still get sick. It's not like these vaccines are gonna make corona disappear all of a sudden. That is a logical expectation with the word 'vaccine'. So again, this is more of a semantic discussion that you can all put your eyes and hooks in. But I do think this can just be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u206	Then I would still like Forum to say in the future: our expectation is that the world is perfect and that everything always works for 100%, and if it doesn't, it doesn't work. But the honest story to the people is: if you take a vaccination, you really have a significantly less chance of getting very sick in the hospital. The figures mentioned by the Minister last night were a clear example of this, as were the figures from this morning's technical briefing. That's all I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u207	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u208	You can say a lot about that. Is that right? All those heart problems that are suddenly increasing... is that perhaps the result of the vaccinations? That is something that needs to be investigated. And in young people, all of whom now have to be poked massively, the risk of side effects of vaccination is not much greater than the risk of corona, which is virtually nil. So this is a very complex discussion, which we can beat to death with a sentence that I have just said, but actually we should talk about this: what is the result of these vaccinations? What exactly are you calling for? What exactly do you want everyone, even in the whole world, to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u209	So this is what this means. All the institutions we have, be it the EEA or the College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products or the Health Council: Mr.Jansen just doesn't care about anything and in fact says "I have my own opinion about everything." I just think it's a bad thing to put science in a corner all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u210	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u211	Those are the very broad ones: "the" science. It's not like there's no criticism at all. There's so much criticism of this vaccine. It's been tested very briefly. There are all kinds of things not known. I read, for example, the article on menstrual disorders. That has been published and there were many headlines in the press: it has a minimal effect on menstrual disorders. You'll read the paper yourself. One of the first sentences in the paper is: in the trials, in this case Pfizer, the effect on menstruation has not been looked at. Well, those are pretty shocking observations. Those are things that we need to find, aren't they? Those aren't things that we can just walk away from all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u212	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. It's a fascinating discussion, but I'm going to finish it now. I now give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. And a compliment to the Chamber: it is nice that a discussion takes place in such a way that it is substantive and with arguments about and over again. That can be said once, I think. I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona pandemic was for society what the stress test is for banks. Not that the pandemic is over, but fortunately there are indications that we can hopefully continue to say goodbye to the pandemic. But that does not mean that we must forget what we have learned from this pandemic. In fact, these are lessons that we must now also take to heart. This pandemic has made it clear as a contrast solution that people with fewer opportunities, less good homes, less good employment contracts and less good education had to take the blows of the pandemic more heavily. In addition, this pandemic also strengthened two other pandemics. First of all, I call the violence pandemic. Everywhere in Europe, women and children were more victims of violence behind the front door. I don't want to use the word "homely." Because there's nothing domestic about a punch in the stomach, a kick in the back or a rape. Behind or in front of the front door: violence is violence. I would therefore like to ask whether the Prime Minister, the Cabinet, can reflect on this and whether there is sufficient attention to this pandemic of violence. Then the other pandemic: the disinformation pandemic. That too is still about our country and about our continent. Fortunately, however, our continent is arming itself against this disinformation pandemic in the form of the EU. For example, the Digital Services Act and the Code of Practice on Disinformation are being developed to better regulate platforms to tackle disinformation. And from Europe, direction has been given to how to deal with disinformation and fake news specifically in the context of corona. Mr. Chairman. Through the Minister, I would like to ask the Cabinet: how ambitious is the Dutch commitment in the negotiations on the revision of the Code of Practice? And in what time will the Netherlands implement that code to ensure that citizens are better protected against incorrect information in this shadow pandemic of disinformation? There are still people who, partly because of disinformation, do not understand the approach, and sometimes even actively disprove it. For example, COVID-19 is still compared by some to "a flu." But there's already a lot of disinformation about a flu. As Professor Rosendal said, flu is often thrown into one heap with various other viruses, for example viruses that lead to a serious cold. Real flu, which is influenza, is a serious disease, which averages 5,000 people every year and causes 4,000 deaths, with outliers to 9,000. And this only applies to hospitalizations. I am not even talking about the impact at home or on the labour market. From the delta variant, we know it's far more sickening than influenza. From Omikron we know to date that it is much more contagious than delta and influenza, but less sickening than delta and possibly more than influenza. But it's too early to fly the flag. As long as vaccinations are not distributed fairly throughout the world, new worrying variants may arise. That's why precautions are in order. Therefore, it is wise to relax slowly. That is why it is wise to set up the dashboard in such a way that it becomes more clear when we have to re-introduce stricter measures or, hopefully, as in Denmark, when we are able to open them responsibly. But back to disinformation. Mr. Chairman. We are all standing here because we have taken an oath or vow, in which we have sworn or promised faithfully to our Constitution. To be specific in this dossier: Article 22. Article 22 (1) of our Constitution states that the public authorities are taking measures to promote public health. It is so unfortunate that we rarely refer to our Constitution and to our constitutional task. What is also regrettable is that we are not trying to explain why one law in our Constitution, public health, the other, for example freedom of movement, may sometimes be restricted under conditions. As Professor Voermans said, fundamental rights are not absolute, not even at European level. We in the Chamber must therefore give more thought to this. It is this Constitution that is the foundation of our democracy. Disinformation has many different consequences. It undermines our constitutional role in the field of public health. It also undermines our democracy and contributes to polarisation. As MPs, we are legally bound by the Constitution. We are morally bound by our democracy. I hope that, because we both want to serve, we want to tackle disinformation hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u214	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u215	Madam President. We have been gathered here in a gloomy mood over the past few years, but fortunately there is the necessary good news to share today. Although the number of infections is high, the variant of the virus that is now dominant is much less sickening. We see that the government has also announced relaxations. Museums and restaurants, for example, get more air. In other European countries, measures are being further scaled down or terminated. The SGP believes that in the current circumstances there should be a clear perspective and a clear look at how other restrictive government measures can be reduced in the short term. Because the choice is not "is there a crisis?" Or "is there nothing wrong?'. There's something in there. If the crisis, the real emergency with the far-reaching special restrictive measures, is over, there may still be reason for normal administrative measures. As far as the SGP is concerned, we must return to it as soon as possible. I would like to ask for a government perspective on that phasing-out. Mr. Chairman. In the case of these specific measures, I should like to make it clear today that we must get rid of the corona pass as soon as possible. After all, the sectors which have now opened up, as well as the catering and culture sectors, are still affected. We should not think it normal that an opening of the catering industry is directly linked to maintaining the corona pass. There is a huge critical report about the very limited effectiveness of the coronapas, also with 3G. If the effect is so limited and the situation is as it is today, then the argument "helping all bits" is too lean. That's why we want that coronapas off the table as soon as possible. He could not be here on behalf of Mr Omtzigt because of other obligations, but he asked me if I would like to make this point on his behalf. I would like to ask him to withdraw the bill to introduce, withdraw it and add it to the list of legislative proposals on which the cabinet says: we must get rid of them; we do not want to defend them anymore. In practice, this could also give a lot of air to people who now see it hanging over their heads like a sword of Damocles. Mr. Chairman. It is also important to support the corona measures. We've talked about that before. We have seen it: mayors who ring the bell, the trouble that entrepreneurs have with it, citizens who say that the logic and predictability of the measures are far from being sought for them. My simple question to the cabinet is: how do you weigh up these kinds of signals, how do you deal with them in practice, how can you give more space to citizens, businesses and institutions and how can you make more tailor-made work possible? This is also something that the SGP Group has repeatedly contributed in recent years. Mr. Chairman. The effects of quarantine measures on the economy, care and education are high. My question is also: if we see the infections among children and young people, what effects does omikron have on immunity among them, and in the short term doesn't, literally, give more room for young people? Speaking of the young people: in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Kuik, this was also the subject of discussion, and other spokesmen have rightly addressed it, because we see that the measures have so many adverse effects on them, and give rise to an increase in uncertainty, loneliness, mental problems. I would also like to draw attention to the burning letter from student associations recently. What's the government's response to that signal? What are the possibilities of making more use of young people's creativity and ideas? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Finally it's time! In a confession of guilt, last week, the OMT admitted that they were wrong, that the conclusions were exceeded and that considerable relaxations are possible. And so it was finally decided yesterday to open up the catering and the cultural sector as well. Soothings, finally justice, finally good news - you'd think, because the objectionable corona pass still exists. And this cabinet has shown that they are a long way from getting rid of this. Even while last week's research by TU Delft showed that the use of 2G and 3G causes more damage to society than that benefits, the cabinet continued to presort a QR society. As a follow-up, a new arrangement was sent to the Chamber last Monday, with new rules on corona access tickets, in the context of harmonisation in Europe. The new rules are: recovery certificate valid for only six months, and vaccination certificate valid for nine months. Last week, I asked questions about this to the Minister. He wasn't ready at the time. And I understand that, I understand that, but what I feared then is now being realized. Because, according to this cabinet, why doesn't immunity from recovery have the same value as vaccination? According to several scientists and also the US CDC, a natural recovery of an infection is as good as a vaccine, or even better. Then where did this vaccination fetishism come from, I wonder? Can the Minister explain to me the scientific grounds for this distinction? DENK also has reservations about the obsession of this cabinet with the booster degree. And I say clearly, before there are any misunderstandings: boosters are a good tool for the elderly and vulnerable to prevent serious illness and hospitalisations. But my group has problems with the fact that a high booster rate of the entire population has been set as the ultimate goal. And that's what we're seeing in the new arrangement. It states that, with a booster shot, unlimited access to society is available for the time being. And we already know: that is not security; that is false security. In Israel, they're already betting on the fourth shot, and there's a towering rate of contagion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u218	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Paulusma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were in the technical briefing of the OMT together this morning. We saw in the graphs an increase in the number of young people, including this variant, who even end up in hospital and become seriously ill. And these are still young children. How do you suggest that with the call you just made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u220	Well, this morning my colleague Azarkan was present at the technical briefing. And, yeah, we're kind of alike, too, aren't we? But I'm not saying, and I never said that vaccination doesn't help or doesn't work. What I am talking about in my plea is that we are currently very much committed to a booster rate, while recovery, a through infection, according to various studies also offers immunity. Last week I asked the Minister about this: is it not wise to enrich the figures with the booster rate with the immunity figures? I think we have a much better picture of the state of affairs than we do at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u221	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u222	Mr. Chairman. DENK therefore says, and that is actually what I have just said: shift the focus to the degree of immunity instead of the booster degree. And then there are opportunities. In Spain, Denmark and the United Kingdom, they are already banishing the odious coronapas: everyone is free to go wherever they want. As with the flu, the risk groups and the people in care receive a booster every year before the corona season begins somewhere in September or October to reduce the disease burden. Even the WHO, the World Health Organisation, expects Europe to end up in an endemic situation by the end of March, thanks to Omikron. That's in two months. That's good news in itself. Mr President, I shall conclude. DENK asked the government on 15 December 2020... I repeat: 15 December 2020.... for a strategy for the endemic phase. This has not been presented to this day. The Minister indicated that the long-term vision would follow at the end of January. He's got five days left. I'm very curious. Mr. Chairman. The key question now is how the transition to the long term will be shaped. Are we going to continue on the old foot of the past two years with restrictions of freedom, with endless pricking and hoping for a miracle? I am asking this because the Minister is now also saying loud and clear that the government can no longer do this to society. Let us therefore stop this hidden subscription to a social life. Let us no longer be afraid. Let us follow the United Kingdom, Spain and Denmark. Even if we are not the first country to return to normal, let us not become the last country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u223	I am impressed by what Mr Kuzu says: he asked for a plan as early as 2020. Then he's had a long time to think about it, too, I guess. So I am curious what DENK would like in this long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u224	At least a few elements. Moreover, I think that the Minister should come up with this in the first instance, with the support he has. I don't have 4,000 officials. I also have a little less staff and support than the D66 Group. But there are a number of elements that are important to me. The first important element is that we must, of course, ensure that we identify the vulnerable groups and the people who are susceptible to end up in hospital in advance and booster them in time. Then we're not chasing the facts. Then we protect them every year in advance. This will probably also be reflected in the long-term vision. Then it is also true that we need a plan to move as quickly and responsibly as possible towards a situation in which we are releasing society. We should no longer have the freedom-limiting measures that the country has suffered over the past two years. We're just gonna go back to normal. I believe that this is a broad wish of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u225	Mrs Paulusma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u226	One short question, because Mr. Kuzu is triggering me. He makes a plea for the vulnerable in society. We just had a very short debate about vulnerable young people and children who are getting sick. I thought I'd try a plea for boosters. But he didn't say that, so I'm curious about that. If he says "vulnerables," shouldn't he be making a plea here for that booster shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u227	A booster shot for the total population is really a step too far for me. In fact, we see in the figures, especially those of the last two years, it has been almost two years since that people who are older and those who have a higher BMI are more susceptible to getting into the hospital and into the ic. I think we really need to focus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u228	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the fight against infectious disease has not received the attention it really deserves for years. Former directors of GGD Nederland spoke at the beginning of last year about the monitoring flame level at which the GGD has been operating for years. When the corona crisis began, we were not well prepared. Processes, logistics, material, humanization, contracts and communication: it was not in order. And still we can't handle the huge amount of testing and registrations properly. I have an extraordinary respect for all the people who work so hard at the GGD GHOR, but we also need to look forward and make things better in the future. Because corona will not be the last health crisis in the Netherlands. Last week André Rouvoet, the chairman of the GGD GHOR umbrella organisation, called: Dutch health care is not prepared for another health crisis. Mr Rouvoet spoke, among other things, of a large shortage of doctors specializing in infectious diseases. Structural investment is urgently needed. Before the corona crisis began, the GGD was cut for years, thinking that infectious diseases would no longer pose a danger, while the question was not actually whether, but when a pandemic would break out. How will the Minister ensure that the GGD remains prepared for any subsequent pandemic outbreak? I understand there's going to be a plan on pandemic preparedness. What's going on with that? Which parts exactly are included? Can the Minister also comment on how he sees administrative responsibility for the future? Does he have plans to change the way the GGD GHOR is organized? Because of the complex administrative structure, everyone, and no one really, is responsible. It's a mess of responsibilities. This is at the expense of administrative power and perseverance, which is at the expense of a pandemic or pandemic. health crisis. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that the long-term strategy, the long-term vision of corona, is coming soon. I assume that the way we have to deal with deferred care is going to be part of that vision. This morning we heard that some 130,000 people are waiting for surgery. Last week I read in the NRC the story of a lady of 62 who died after her heart surgery was repeatedly postponed because there was no place on the ic. It's too late for her. Unfortunately, she won't be the only one. Mrs Van den Berg also referred to another story. Last week, the Minister promised to see how the acute axis in hospitals could be organized differently. Of course, that's not one-two-three. But how are we going to deal with the necessary catching-up care? Is there any idea how long people will have to wait before they can be helped? Is there anything to say about the physical, mental and economic health damage? Can the Minister say anything about how communication is going towards these people? Then I have two short questions. There are, as I understand it, a few tens of thousands of people who are not protected after vaccination, because the vaccine does not work with them because of a medical situation. There are two means that are effective in these people. Does the Minister know exactly how many people this is about? Do they have access to these two alternative medicines? Has enough of these medicines been bought so that this group of vulnerable people does not fish behind the net? I understand that the paper corona access card is valid for no more than 90 days, other than the digital corona access card. I understand that a paper CTB is static and that's why it has a shorter expiration date, but many elderly people use that paper corona access card. Sometimes it is difficult for them to apply for or have to pick up a paper corona ticket. Can the Minister provide a solution to this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u230	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u231	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. Let me start with one question: when does the leak stop? Any sign of that yet? The Netherlands is slowly opening again: catering, zoos and theatres are opening again. No, Mr. Chairman, the Netherlands is not opening. At least, not quite. Indeed, part of the population is still excluded from participation in normal life, because the corona pass remains and there is still a legislative proposal for 2G, which goes even further. BBB is and remains against these freaks of action. We're not talking about Ebola, where you get blood blisters on your body and start bleeding out of your mouth. We are talking about a virus that is also being said by the virologists that it is becoming a cold virus. How proportional does the Minister and the Prime Minister still think the measures are? Mr. Chairman. Down with that pass, down with 2G! Let the virus rage out and people build natural immunity. This is happening in other countries as well. As far as I'm concerned, the new is becoming normal in the Netherlands: if you have complaints, stay home and follow the normal hygiene rules. Let's focus on this instead of those weird, non-working, freedom-limiting and polarising fits, of which the scientists from TU Delft say, among other things, that they have little or no effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u232	There's been an interruption by Mrs Paulusma. This is your last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u233	I hear Mrs van der Plas' speech. If no measures are needed, be my guest. But what do you say to all those people who get long covid, including this variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u234	I always think it's a little false to say that, because that's what you can go through in all kinds of things. I'm aware there are lung covid patients. I'm in touch with that myself. I have said before in debates: it is sanding; it is always sanding. Everything you say here about the coronavirus, the measures and the relaxations is always rubbing. I just want to make sure that I have said this before in debates, too, that we are very easily going to undermine fundamental rights. I think that's very important. We just have fundamental rights, human rights, freedom of movement, that you don't have to be vaccinated, you name it. I just think that's important. In recent months, I have found that we are quite easily taking very rigorous measures, which now appear to be quite difficult to reverse; at least if I may follow a few parties. I'd like to keep that vigilance. That is why I speak very strongly against this, but once again I am sure that people will get seriously ill and get into hospital, although the technical briefing also shows that 99% or at least a very large proportion of the people who are infected... No, but you might as well point out this as the people with lung covid. There's one for and one against everywhere. But my point is that people have fundamental rights to live a normal life. Two years ago, we were just living a normal life. It's just completely gone. And we think that's normal. I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u235	This is Mrs Van den Berg's last question, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u236	Mrs van der Plas makes a call that I am heartbroken in. Let's just make sure we all stay home in case of complaints. I have asked Mr Van Dissel a few times to include this in the models. If we all just stick to the basic measures, then there is no need for a corona pass or lockdown at all. Then there's just no need for anything. In practice, however, it appears that 40% to 50% of people do not comply. I wonder how Mrs van der Plas thinks we can get that at 100%. Because we haven't been able to do that in two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u237	I am very happy with this question. 'Cause why don't people stick to it? Because the CTB, the corona pass, the green check mark has been promoted by this cabinet and driven as the freedom pass. Guys, you got a green check mark: dancing with Janssen! Go to the clubs. Do you have a green check mark? Get out of here. Go to a festival, guys. That's why people haven't been raised from the beginning with: just stick to the basic measures. Do you have any complaints? Stay home. Stick to the basic measures. You can look back on all the debates. I've hammered on it every time. What happened to the basic measures? Now, as far as I am concerned, we are on the point of getting people to talk to us over and over again and that the new is going to be normal. So there has to be. The coronapas is not the new normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u238	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u239	I will continue my speech. I'm gonna go back one sentence, or I'm gonna have to start in the middle of the sentence. Let's focus on those normal hygiene rules instead of those weird, non-working, freedom-limiting and polarising fits that the scientists from TU Delft, among others, say have little or no effect. We give people a green check mark for good behavior. We give them the opportunity to infect uncontaminated people by giving them access everywhere. So that's incomprehensible. The OMT opinion states that 76% of the positive tested patients were vaccinated. In addition, the Minister refers to statistics that have made no distinction between hospitalisations with or through corona. Can the Minister indicate how many fewer hospital and ic recordings there were in figures before the heavy lockdown in December, if at that time it had already been registered with or by covid in the hospital or on the ic? By the way, we are pleased that it is now being registered, despite the fact that the entire coalition was against it for reasons which I cannot understand. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the cabinet is still choosing the CTB is also extremely tragic for that group of people who have been fighting for recognition for months. That's a group of people who can't be vaccinated. They are already ill or already have a serious condition. And then they get caught extra, because because of that horrible QR code they still can't sit on a terrace and can't even go to the toilet in a café. This is happening despite promises made by the previous Minister and even in spite of the Bikker amendment adopted on 6 May last year. No, it's said that they'll be tested, won't they? That too is impossible for some of these people. I'm getting mad about that. I am angry because the Minister of Health should be committed to all vulnerable people in our society. That's his job. I am ashamed that the Ministry has not been able to find a solution for these people for months and does not comply with the amendment tabled by Mrs Bikker. So once again, when does this minister intend to help this group of people, who he thinks are very small, so should it be easy too? Mr. Chairman. I have another proposition. The Netherlands must heal, literally and figuratively. A first step is that we, the government, call on people to help each other and to take care of each other, not to let them play each other out and not to fight each other. Now I see signs hanging over highways with all kinds of corona calls: stay home, work at home, etc. But I don't see any calls to help each other, to take care of each other, to see each other. Is it an idea to provide half the number of signs with this kind of text? It can be a small first step towards a society that heals again. And we know: a small step can be a big leap. Mr. Chairman. Rounding up. Follow countries like Denmark and Ireland and release the inhabitants of the Netherlands. Speak to them on their responsibility to prevent contamination. So you have complaints, stay home. Speak to people, over and over, but release the Netherlands again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u240	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u241	I was hesitating, because there was a lot of nonsense coming out in four minutes. First of all, the corona admission ticket will be there from September 21st. Maintaining the basic measures has been a crisis from the outset. Denmark has had very heavy measures, including corona access cards, testing everywhere, mouth caps everywhere. Ireland is the same. Anyway, all that aside. Mrs van der Plas says: I want the fairs open, I want that open, I don't want this, I don't want this measure, we have to help each other. But the fact is that the basic measures are still not being complied with. The fact is, care still can't handle it. So what concrete solutions does it have instead of just lifting everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u242	First of all, I distance myself from the first words of Mrs Kuik that there is a lot of nonsense coming out in four minutes. That's a trick that's often used in the Chamber to create weird doubt. Mrs. Kuik just doesn't agree with me. That's possible. That's what she's entitled to say. I'd like to have my reaction...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u243	No, you're through your interruptions, so Mrs. Van der Plas is responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u244	...give it to me. I think it is a shame for a fellow member of the Chamber to say that in this way. Secondly, I didn't say anything at all: I don't want anything. I say, I don't want 2G. I say, "I don't want a coronapas." I say: I would very much like to see these basic measures put very much into practice. I very much want people to see, if necessary through campaigns, "have your complaints, stay home." Even though I have that green tick and I have a snot nose, chances are I'm just positive. I'm not gonna go to that movie theater. That's what I want. That is what Mrs Van den Berg quite rightly points out. I have also talked to Mr Van Dissel about this, who himself says: if that happens, then we do not need any corona measures at all. That's exactly what I'm telling you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u245	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of contributions that I would very much like to join. Mrs Keiken, Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Gündoğan in particular have asked questions to which I would also very much like to hear the answer, with regard to theatres, schools, young people and the handling of aid packages. But of course, as Mrs Gündoğan rightly points out, the approach to disinformation that has disastrous consequences. The strategy of this cabinet has always been to have the virus so-called controlled out. The new measures have confirmed this strategy once and for all. The locks open completely and we know that hundreds, thousands of people will get infected. My party has said it to the great displeasure of this cabinet and the previous cabinet since day one: the only reason for seeking these borders is because it is directed at ic capacity rather than at protecting people and preventing as many infections as possible. That is a death sentence for many people at risk, that we are burdening several generations with the harmful effects of lung covid and the care without mercy into a deepest valley, does not seem to matter. Anything can turn away on the way to that coveted but also unfeasible group immunity. We must learn to live with the virus, by relaxing irresponsiblely and in three weeks to see how much damage is in hospitals and whether the number of deaths in this cabinet is still acceptable, and then cheerfully. I dare say that I have earned some cynicism on this subject by now, because I do not expect a new strategy in all honesty. We've been asking for it for some time, but we're not getting it. Because the old one has never been dealt with. My motions with this request have been structurally rejected with a lot of bombabre and fuss and this supposedly less deadly variant is, of course, the perfect opportunity to give some more gas. But one thing is clear and more and more members in this house are convinced of that. 2G is not a solution. Of course, the infection of omikron is no guarantee of immunity in other, newer variants. Also, the potential for these new variants continues to increase with the increasing number of infections and the lack of international solidarity. I also support the CDA in its quest for a fair policy on international solidarity. We also keep seeing re-infection. Immunity works in many cases but for a very short period of time and then people become contagious again. So my question is: does this affect a possible choice for 2G, as well as the reinfections? Now the choice of relaxation. No matter how much I disagree with it, that choice is made and the OMT predicts a next wave on this basis. So I'm just wondering, what now? What about the health care workers recovery plan, with special attention to them with long covid? How does the Minister expect to catch up with the delayed care in the broadest sense of the word when we call the next wave over us in the meantime? Is that delta plan coming? The OMT also indicates that much more attention should be paid to the consequences of lung covid. There is already no attention to this agony, which affects thousands of people. With the calculated explosion of contamination, tens of thousands more people are added. An acceptable risk; acceptable according to this cabinet. We call that collateral damage in English. Will the government ever communicate fairly about lung covid, including among children, and about the great uncertainties that this entails? Is there any insight into the situation around lung covid at all? Can the Minister admit that speaking of a mild course is surely an insult to anyone who has to do with the consequences of lung covid? In addition, the concept of "mild" is of course always relative. Locking up. Is this government prepared to take responsibility for the ever-growing group of people who are going to get long covid? For all those people who, through conscious policies and rationally considered risks, are potentially suffering permanent health damage? We're not supposed to shrug our shoulders on these people. How are we gonna be there for them? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u247	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u248	Mr. Chairman. Which country or what kind of country do we want to live in? While the English have their freedom all over again, the Dutch only get a little more time in the courtyard of their prison. And that while the figures for BVNL no longer justify any measure. The IFR of corona was already 0.10% and thanks to Omikron it will be much lower. There is therefore no longer any reason to maintain corona on the A-list of the Public Health Act. I would like to hear from the Minister when COOVID-19 is finally removed from that list. Mr. Chairman. We can go from the almighty government to a restaurant, the pub or a performance, but with QR-pass, a mouth cap and at 1.5 meters. Day freedom, day turnover, day catering, day cultural sector. The door of our prison opens to end up in a slightly larger prison. Can the Minister calculate the effect of the QR pass and the one-and-a-half meter rule on the ic occupation? Does he realize what the QR pass and the one and a half meter rule mean for the catering and the cultural sector? Can the Minister explain how many infections are prevented by closing at 10:00 p.m. instead of, for example, at 24:00 p.m.? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is causing enormous emotional damage to children and young people. While young people themselves have virtually no problem with corona, they are forced home by the absurd quarantine rules, they have to wear non-working and humiliating mouth caps and the State tries to vaccinate them with something we don't know about the long-term effects. Now students even have to hold a mouth cover during an exam. BVNL believes that this goes beyond all limits. It really has to stop. We therefore call on all young people not to wear a mask from now on out of protest. It has often been shown that mouth caps are very bad for health. So let's stop making healthy people sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u249	I'd like to interrupt. You are now making an appeal that goes against the rules. You know that this is in breach of our rules, so I really want to ask you not to do so. You are a parliamentarians. You can say that you disagree with something, but I find it unacceptable to call for something that is part of the regulation. So I'd like your respect for that. I'll give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u250	I did, of course, say that this is a protest and that the young people can do so out of protest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u251	Still, it's a call, and I really don't think we should do that here. You're a representative of the people. We have Article 816 (1). We had a discussion about it last week, so don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u252	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u253	No, I don't want to argue about it anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u254	You are absolutely right, so let me just say that I do not agree with the fact that we have children wearing mouth caps. I hope that the cabinet will agree with us on this as soon as possible and that we will do something about it. As far as we're concerned, it's pointless for children to wear a mask when they don't have anything of corona, but they do suffer from such a mouth cap. I'm moving on. Can the Minister explain the net result of a mouth cap during an exam? Mr President, I will conclude. After failing PCR tests, false registrations, fake news about vaccinations and hallucinating predictions of the RIVM, I can only say one thing on behalf of BVNL: you cannot fool a people endlessly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u255	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. The directors have indicated that they need about 45 minutes to prepare themselves. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u256	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. Perhaps it would be a good idea to point out that next Tuesday we are going to vote on any motions that will be tabled in the second term. I am the first to give the floor to the Prime Minister to respond to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u257	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of VWS will thus address questions regarding the CTB, the corona access card, and also those about the care, the long-term, the vaccination and the modelling he will deal with. He also has a heading other than that. I'll try to do the other questions as best I can. I'll do that along the following lines. First of all, I'm going to do the questions about what we announced yesterday about what we can do now. Then I will ask a single question that has been asked about enforcement. Let's see, I had another one here... Yeah, sorry, then there was one more question about compensation. Then there are the questions about enforcement, and finally I too have a section called varia. I'll start with the announced relaxations. You know, of course, that there were already announcements on 15 January of relaxations in education and in a number of other places. We're gonna ease up now. It has already been said by a number of Members of Parliament that we must, of course, look at the effects that this will have in the future. But the cabinet has looked wider. There is enormous social pressure to ensure that we, as a society, can eventually return to normal and take a step in that direction. We're derogating from the OMT recommendation. The OMT says: actually until 5:00 p.m. and with all the measures until 8:00 p.m. We say, "We'll stretch those 8:00 until 10:00." That is, of course, a limited one, but we believe that there is an acceptable risk. It also fits in with the broader societal weighting. It's exciting in itself. That's what I named last night. Perhaps I should add one thing to that, namely that we have, of course, made such an extra appeal to the Security Council, which does not really need to be, because the mayors know and take on their role as well, and certainly also in the sectors, such as the catering sector, the cultural sector, the sports sector and other sectors. We have called on them to do all the good work that has been done before in the sphere of protocols and of all kinds of investigations that have been done into how they can safely open up, not by getting the shredder, but really applying it. They've all agreed they're really gonna do that. They also understand the importance of having to work together over the next few weeks to ensure that the matter remains manageable. At the same time, as social pressure rises, it is paradoxical that it will have a slight dampening effect in itself to open up these professional sectors a little more than 8 p.m. and to allow it to go a little longer. Not all of this has been calculated exactly. You can't say that you're going to calculate exactly what's going on for two hours longer, even if it's just because the OMT modellings have to start from a decent bandwidth at the moment, although they're already much more specific and precise than they were a while ago. Then there was the question: what are you looking at in three or six weeks? I would just like to say that it is not the case that we are looking at just one figure. Maybe I could do this whole block, Mr. Chairman. Is that okay? I have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u258	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Chicken. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u259	We're not so much looking at one figure as we're looking at that broad weighting. We are, of course, looking medically, but also socially, economically and socially. It will be very important at that point in time to ensure compliance, control and, of course, enforcement. But it is not so that we can say to cafes and restaurants: you can stay open longer than 10:00 p.m. if exactly that figure is there. We can't do that. It remains a broader consideration, also because the correlation between the number of infections and what is happening in hospitals is still further specified. That is, of course, less precise than it was last year, before the vaccinations, was and since Omikron is among us. That also answers the questions about the weighing moment, I think. I understand the question of perspective. It's justified. In this respect, I would say to Kees van der Staaij of the SGP that the demands of proportionality are, of course, leading there. We do not maintain measures longer than necessary. But it listens closely. It's just impossible right now to go further than we do. We're already moving beyond the OMT. Proportionality is a guiding principle here, and we will try to provide that perspective as soon as we see it. Mr Van der Staaij also asked why the cabinet opts for rules and not for citizens' own responsibility. Of course, that own responsibility is crucial. The same applies to compliance with all the rules and basic measures. It's just getting more important. There the talks of Gunay Uslu with the culture, of Micky Adriaansens and Karien van Gennip with the catering and of Conny Helder with the sport. I'm missing a few calls right now. Karien van Gennip also spoke with the social partners. It is important to mention that we are doing something exciting as well as relaxing now. We go beyond the OMT, from the broader social weighting, but we really have to prevent it from getting out of the band. The only way to do that is if we all stick to those rules. Finally, a few specific questions. There was a question from Wybren van Haga about mouth caps at the exam. One of the exceptions is that no masks need to be worn when a person has a fixed seat and keeps the 1.5 meter distance. If one is on top of one another in the exams, it has to be, but not otherwise. In education anyway, I say in the direction of the CDA and the Party for Animals, that you are in the p.o. from group 6 and in vo a mouth cap should be on when moving, but not when you are in class. In higher education, it also applies to movements and in classrooms or lecture halls if this 1.5 meter cannot be maintained. A maximum group size of 75 applies. The football stadiums. That one-third is, of course, the main rule. The main rule is: you look at a location how many seats there are normally. Of these, you can use the main rule, a third, whether it is the Concertgebouw or the stadium of Ajax. Why? If you look from above, on the ground plan, there must be about 1.5 meters around the person, not only on the side, but also on the cross. This leads to a rule of thumb, a rule of thumb of a third of the regular capacity. They're all annoyed by that. I understand, because of course it's not what you'd want. But right now, we really can't do this anymore. Again, there are more risks when it becomes fuller. Even if it takes longer, there were pleas to allow things after 10 p.m. There are more risks. Then you have longer contact and there's a longer risk of things going wrong. We've been asked about the kids. Do we use their ideas and creativity? Yes. There have always been a lot of conversations, for example with the Young Think Tank of the ESC, but also with individual young people. For example, the corona rules, both during this lockdown and last year, leave opportunities for young people to exercise and for activities for young people outside. It was sometimes really minimal because of all the misery with the virus. I realize that. But we have always looked at it, also because of the great risks of depression and suicide. Apart from these very serious phenomena, there is the general feeling of "my youth" and "what happens now, I went to study or go to the MBO now and I don't see my friends." Of course, that has a huge impact. That is why, of course, young people always have our very specific attention. But I wouldn't go as far as Mrs Van den Berg. She didn't suggest it, but of course she was right to ask whether you could also do events for young people alone. That's difficult, of course. Sometimes it can, if it's really very special youth activities. But even if it causes the infection of young people, the virus continues to travel through the generations. You're at risk. At the moment large-scale events can't be done at all. We need to look into the future to see if there's anything more customization possible. Finally, there was the VVD's question about decision-making. This concerns the motion of Hijink, Westerveld, Tielen and Wassenberg to involve the Chamber more in the decision-making process. I said last time, perhaps it was Ernst Kuipers, but at least one of us is looking at that very precisely. We will also look at the distribution of documents to see whether all interests are well served. This means that we will now be part of the discussion that is currently taking place on how we will continue both this winter and this year for the medium-term strategy and, of course, the longer-term strategy. In the longer term letter we will return to that. In the meantime, we have already decided this weekend, also in response to a request that started at GroenLinks and received broad support, to send the OMT advice to the Chamber immediately as soon as we have it. We do have oral insight, but we didn't get it until Monday on paper. We sent it to the chamber right then. That's different from other times, but I think it's appropriate to send it to you as soon as we have it. Mr. Chairman. That was the first block, the measures, the risks and the further ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u260	There are some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Kuik, then Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Westerveld. I saw Mrs Tielen make a move too, then Mr Van Haga and Mrs Paulusma. First Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u261	I hear the Prime Minister say we raised it from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. There aren't really any big assumptions or models underneath that. It's a risk we're taking. The only argument to pull everything to 10:00 is enforcement. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u262	No. No, it's a broad social weighting. Our estimate is that if we had not gone beyond 8 p.m. today, that would not have been an answer to the great social pressure to do more. I totally get that. At the same time, if it were not justified, it would be our job to resist this social pressure. We think it's possible. We think it's a responsible risk. So we take a slightly higher risk than the OMT strictly recommends, because of that broader weighting. In addition, we say that the risk will be mitigated slightly because, if you can go to the theatre or the café a little longer, the risk that people will be able to hack up in large numbers at home in those hours will be a little smaller. That'll have a slight dampening effect. So we're taking a bigger risk than the OMT. We really need to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u263	This was in no way an answer to my question. I noted that the Prime Minister himself said in his term that there are not really any models behind the choice before 10 p.m. It is a social issue that has been chosen by 10 p.m. and the only real reason for this is enforcement. The Prime Minister has said that there is not really a reason or assumptions that are pleading before 10 p.m. Either you have models and scientific research that justify it being 10:00 p.m. and not for example 11:00 p.m. and/or with exceptions, or you don't have one. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u264	There aren't any. That's right. The OMT says "17.00 and 8 p.m. if the conditions are met" and we say: we have met the conditions and take some more room until 10 p.m. Of course, it will have to prove whether it works, hence my great appeal to everyone to keep to the agreements. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u265	Then I still note that I cannot justify why you cannot allow 11 p.m. for the cultural sector, so that this sector can be at the front instead of at the back. In fact, this sector has been constantly lagging behind, attracting a certain audience and, to date, it has complied with 98% of the access rules for the corona access card. There's no scientific or model reasoning why 23:00 wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u266	That's weighted. It's not a weird idea at all. It has also been suggested that theatres after they are filled before 10:00 p.m., which is usually the case, because performances start at 8:00 p.m. to run them out after 10:00 p.m. We didn't do that for two reasons. First of all, and this is reflected in the OMT recommendation: whether you choose 8 p.m. or 10 p.m., every time people spend longer together, the risk increases, even if they are already together. The second is that the Security Council of 25 mayors has really said: from the end of, in addition to compliance and control, enforcement, we absolutely ask you to have unity. And they're glad we do. There are two reasons for this. It gives clarity to the police and the boas in their functioning and prevents arbitration between sectors. It gives great irritations when the catering industry is open longer than the culture or the culture is open longer than the catering industry. This creates tensions between these sectors. So they told us: please do not do that and put it at one time. We've weighed that very precisely. We said, "Okay, let's do it." Hence the one end time of 10:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u267	Yet something special is going on here. I think that the Prime Minister agrees with me that one of the most important tasks we have here is to control the cabinet, to see what the basis of action is and which weighs against each other. We see here that the RIVM models until 5:00 p.m. Then the OMT comes with an opinion until 8:00 p.m. and the cabinet says: no, it's 10:00 p.m. anyway. And then it is up to us as a Chamber to see if we agree with the measures taken by the Cabinet. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: has there ever been any relaxation without any modeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u268	Yes. It wasn't as solid as it is now, but we've done it a few times. In March/April last year we took the calculated risk a few times. That's what we called it back then. At that time, the peak in beds in the hospitals had not yet been reached, but you could see that we were going over the hill. That was becoming visible in the modelling. It became visible, but that peak wasn't there yet. At that time we said: we are now going to do a few extensions as if we were already sure. That was a calculated risk. That fits in with the role distribution. The OMT is independent and comes from epidemiology with advice. We must always make the broader social weighting, where the situation in hospitals is an important indicator. That is why we are always very keen to ensure that we do not take too great a risk there. We think this is possible, also because of the great social effects of closing everything down at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u269	Of course, it has gone wrong before, when the cabinet relaxed faster and more quickly than the OMT recommended. Even then, the Chamber was very difficult to control the cabinet, because there were no models underneath. That's the problem here. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to tell us how such a discussion is going and to help us in the way in which we can properly control the cabinet. Maybe we're relaxing too fast or too slow. If we do not have any arguments underneath which we can read, review or recalculate, this controlling task of ours is very difficult. Then, for example, it is difficult for us to explain to the cultural sector why it cannot be opened for an hour longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u270	Yes. How's that going? We've asked the OMT what could be done now. That comes with the calculations, with as a prerequisite from 5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. We then discussed it in detail in all kinds of contexts. We had very intensive contact with the mayors in the Security Council before and also after the OMT advice. In any case, there is a kind of permanent contact between the rulers who deal with sectors and their sectors. Besides, it's always hard. I have sometimes made the comparison: if it were not epidemiological space but a shortage of food, anyone who is hungry would rightly be hungry and rightly have a demand for food. But if the food isn't there, it's not there. When people say they want epidemiological space by staying open longer and that space isn't there, that space isn't there. Here's the point that first of all you're in a phase where there's also a certain degree of spread in the modelling, pretty big uncertainties. Secondly, there is greater social pressure. Not that we can't resist it. I'm absolutely prepared to do that. We've done that before. But we estimate that, by giving in to that understandable social pressure now, there is a greater chance that you can say: then we must also do extra enforcement together. We value that it will have a dampening effect on the risk that increases by going to 10 p.m. It won't take away the risk, but it will dampen it. So we're looking at this broader social context. You can also see this in the pieces of the SCP and the broad social weighting. This time you can see that very strongly in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u271	Fortunately, we had the pieces a day earlier, so that we could also prepare ourselves a little better for the press conference. My question was, of course, how we can control the cabinet if there is no model calculation behind it and we do not have access to the arguments used for the discussions. There was already a question for me in the first term. This question was: is there perhaps more possible in some sectors by making greater use of tests? I asked that question in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u272	On tests, Kuipers is about to enter. But be careful, just as general about testing, without causing new interruptions, because Kuipers is armed all the way to the teeth. It's not like with more tests the risk is gone. It's a well-known fact. You also keep a big residual risk with tests. We're doing more already. If you'd do more tests, you'd at least take another risk. That is one point in addition, regardless of the possible huge recourse to the test capacity if it were to be used very widely. The second is the Security Council. That has said: very nice that you are going to go a little further, because that is really going to help to bring some rest; it will also help us as mayors to appeal to the sectors. We do that from the trade ministers, but so do the mayors. They say, boys, let's really apply what we've developed all these months and years of protocols. But, they said, help us with one end time. We were also seriously watching if for example we could let the theatres run a little longer. Not done, plus the OMT says you'll be there longer, which is another risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u273	We will soon receive a letter from the cabinet on the medium-term approach. That's just to sketch some perspective. Now I ask the Prime Minister if he can give us some perspective, conditions or developments that the catering companies and the culture makers can hold on to for the next few weeks. At least they'll know what can and can't move. I understand the Prime Minister doesn't want to send it to one grade. But now he's actually saying, "I can't say anything." I think that's kind of skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u274	It's tricky, because it's gonna be the most important thing... I am actually pleased with this question. Thanks to Mrs van den Berg's question, I now say to the catering industry, culture, sport and all other sectors that we are taking a risk with each other, with us, with them, with the mayors. After all, we're going a little further than OMT recommends. We do so because we are confident that as sectors you have come up with everything that has been experimented with, what has been put on paper and with which experience has been gained. It will be very decisive whether that actually happens. The risk you can take further will be determined in a number of weeks. We're talking six weeks from now, with a weighing moment in three weeks. You can do two things if you want. One. You will have more insight into what the virus does in the correlation between the number of infections and what happens in hospitals, not only in the Netherlands but also internationally. We know a lot more about it now than two weeks ago. In two or three weeks, we'll know a lot more about it. Two. You'll know if you've been able to sit in the catering industry, at 1.5 meters, sorry, uncomfortable, but it's hard, because otherwise we can't open our mouth caps when we move. If you're in the gyms between the devices, why don't you put your mouth cap on? That doesn't happen in all places now either. There are many other examples. We hope to see in the next few weeks that that works and that we stick to it. It is the same Dutch people who go to France or Austria and say that everyone abides by the measures! Yeah, I guess that's nice; that could be here, too. So we hope, and I also assume that we, as adults, will tell each other that this is happening. It is therefore the combination of what you see in the international figures regarding this correlation, what is actually happening in the Dutch hospitals and what is the state of compliance with the agreements. That will be three essential factors in the question of whether you can move forward in six weeks and perhaps even at such a weighing moment. Finally, we may also see that we have done a little too much and that we need to take a step back. I can't rule that out. That's what I said at the press conference yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u275	This is a very qualitative response from the Prime Minister. I'm looking for a little more quantitative grip. Again, that it is not possible to say on one figure, I fully understand that. However, my request to the Prime Minister is that it should not be on the spot, but sometime in the next few days whether he can send some more quantitative support to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u276	I'm sorry, because we don't have one. Honestly, this couldn't be happening. If you look when we go back into the old road map, you're talking about 40 hospital beds a day and 10 Ic recordings. The other one was on 100 hospital beds and 25 ICU shots. We're already on those 100 hospital beds. We're still a little under 25 ic-recordings, but we already know there's not much room. In fact, we'll see that we're really taking a risk. These are the figures we have: the 10 and 40 and the 25 and the 100 from the previous roadmaps. Only what determines the correlation between the high numbers of infections and what happens in hospitals is decisive. We just need to get that sharper, including through the international figures. That's what's gonna determine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u277	Thank you. Mrs Tielen van de VVD and then Mr Van Haga. Then Mrs Paulusma and then Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u278	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. I am committed to the entrepreneurs, who are generally happy that they can take that step, but would also like to see more. The Prime Minister says, "We're not going to send out a single number." I understand that very well. But there's now a graph based on all that data with a medial assessment. We know the number of infections is gonna increase. If I'm an entrepreneur, I think it's getting better, so what am I gonna do next? But that's not gonna be the indication. Is the Prime Minister prepared to give us more insight into how we're going to relate to that median, on the basis of which the cabinet made the decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u279	Yeah, but pay attention! The OMT says it can lead to....and that's not even the most extreme scenario................................................................................................................................................................................ We're even going a step further now. So it gets pretty exciting. On the ic's this can lead to around 700, I say out of my head. That is slightly lower in the correlation than before, but it is still a very high number. Then you are again in the scenario in which not all care can be delivered. So there's no telling. If the influx into the hospitals remains manageable, combined with the shared confidence that one will continue to adhere to all the established protocols and all the agreements on enforcement and rules, then you can take a more relaxed next step. But we also really need to make sure that the hospitals can handle it. Not just to spare the doctors and nurses, because they want to work hard. But they also want to work for the people who don't have corona and come for other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u280	I understand that very well. I think the Prime Minister is explaining it very well and that it is also more of a weighting. But I would like to call on him to clarify in the next few weeks what is still feasible, and that is what we find quite exciting, but we can also give this to both the business community and the business community to share responsibility for these protocols and compliance, so that we can really do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u281	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u282	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Then Mrs Paulusma and Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u283	I found the answer to the questions put by Mrs Keiken and Mrs Westerveld rather unsatisfactory. Enforcement only says one thing: it must take place at the same time. Then it doesn't matter what time you choose; they just want one time. Well, that seems very useful to me, too. Then the model comes out 5:00 p.m. OMT says 8:00. And then there comes a non-substantiated calculated risk, which cannot be quantified further, and then we come out at 10:00 p.m. Then I wonder: is it not included that this is likely to be an unworkable situation for the cultural sector, but also for the catering industry? This relaxation is of no use to them at all. It's a bit of a joke for them. My calculated risk would be: just do it until 24:00, then everyone will have a little fun and then you can open it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u284	That's where he gets the hard part. The Outbreak Management Team says: if you do it a little longer, just as separate from the fact that there is the risk of more movement inside and out, and would say that at some point no one comes in and people can only go out, for example in the cultural sector, people are still in the same room for longer. The duration and intensity of that contact and the extension represent an additional risk. Of course, we've had that 10 p.m. before. Of course, it's always stabbing somewhere. That's never exactly scientifically substantiated. But I am getting a big sigh from both the cultural sector and from the catering sector: fortunately that this can now be done, although of course we would like much more. But I really don't hear from the catering industry: now we still can't do anything. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u285	Our inbox exploded. People say that this "a little pricking of an end time" is terrible, because we cannot open at all. A lot of theaters can't open this way. That brings me to my next point. Contrary to previous times, we now have a build-up of measures. We have both the QR code and the mouth caps and that 1.5 meter and placement and also close at 10 pm. This accumulation of measures makes it virtually impossible to operate efficiently. I would urge you to look at that again. For many entrepreneurs in the catering industry, but also in the cultural sector, this is completely unexploited work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u286	I don't think that's too bad. One of the reasons why in Our World in Data countries such as Germany, Italy and France are above the Netherlands in terms of the weight of the overall package for yesterday, is that in those countries mouth caps are used in many more places and CTBs are demanded in many more places, in many cases 2G and not 3G. We don't have any of that in the Netherlands. However, we must be careful not to expand so much, while the use of CTBs and mouth caps is limited and we do not have a 2G remedy. I still think it is a good thing that it should be in the toolbox. In the debates in the coming weeks, we will see whether there will be any support for this. The fact is that the Netherlands, according to the modeling of that website, until yesterday did less than very large countries in Europe. So this is very strong in the use of mouth caps and 2G. Be careful when you say things off. In the Netherlands we really still have the situation that I hear from the catering industry. I also have an inbox that one would like more, but that one is also very happy that this can be done. It is said that it is possible to take action within this framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u287	Of course, 2G is completely unspeakable. But, of course, there's a big difference when you're going to calculate the operation of a catering company by turning off mouth caps against that 1.5 meter. That 1.5 meters then leads to 50%, 60% less sales. A mouth cap, a disgustingly humiliating thing I'll never put on, has no effect on sales. But that 1.5 meters is a substantial difference, that placement is a substantial difference and that 10 p.m. is a substantial difference. This has an impact on turnover and therefore the catering and cultural sector are now screwed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u288	I understand, of course, that they're still limitations, but we're still dealing with a virus that's not really a flu. It is a dangerous virus that still makes a lot of people seriously ill and that still leads to many hospitalizations and to enormous pressure on hospitals themselves and on intensive care. So we haven't gotten rid of it yet. What we are doing now is that, on top of the weighted advice of the best advisors we have, we are still taking a step further. I strongly urge you to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u289	How many interruptions do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u290	This will be your fourth question. You have six in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u291	Okay, that'll be a little calculus, but I'll take the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u292	That'll be easy for Ernst Kuipers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u293	I know Mr Kuipers is about to talk about vaccinations. But I was surprised yesterday at the Prime Minister's comment at the press conference. He said, if people go through the disease, they'll be immune for a while, but the best route to immunity is the vaccine, the booster. I won't be faint, you haven't read that in the KYK, of course, but what scientific basis...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u294	Both of our magazines.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u295	Yeah, we both have a subscription. That's great. I just don't know if it still exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u296	I wouldn't know that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u297	But what scientific literature has the Prime Minister read to say that a vaccine is the way to immunity and that natural immunity is much less?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u298	That's what I'm gonna do. Of course, there was that school that said, "When people go through the disease, you gradually build up herd immunity." That is of course the case when a lot of people go through it, but then it takes a very long time. So that can't be a strategy at all. That's not our strategy either. The strategy is to control the virus as much as possible. That means that you make sure that care can be taken and that vulnerable people are protected as much as possible. My point yesterday was not exactly what the epidemiological effect of the disease is going through versus the vaccine, because Ernst Kuipers is much more expert in that, and he can say something about that in a moment. My point was that the rate of build-up of immunity by vaccination, as well as the rate of vaccination, is how quickly the booster has been set for almost 60% of the people now, of course, infinitely higher than when you would have to wait for everyone to experience the virus. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u299	Your fifth question. Okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u300	But you didn't say that at all. You said if people go through the disease, they'll be immune for a while. That was about the duration and I wasn't talking about herd immunity at all. Group immunity is fine, and I'm all for that, too. Just let everyone get it. But it was about: if people go through the disease, they'll be immune for a while. So just on an individual level. For example, the immunologist Carla Peeters has done research on this. For example, Dr. Carla Peeters, immunologist, cites fifteen researches from different universities and institutions in an article in HP/De Tijd. They've all investigated and proven it. They scientifically support that you have up to eight times less chance of re-infection if you go through it in a natural way. You have 27 times less chance of re-infection and eight times less chance of hospitalization. That's a huge difference. It is much better to go through it on an individual level than to get vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u301	Again, for the assessment of this, we as KIJK users should focus on science. We have a professor in the house and he's about to say something about it. My point was something else. My point was that going through the infection naturally also leads to protection. The extent to which I leave it in the middle, because I'm not an expert. But what was the breakthrough? The breakthrough was that we could start vaccination early last year. That's the breakthrough! You also saw in the states that for example severe illness among 60-plussers... Of course, we started to vaccinate the older people and the hospital staff first. You saw huge effects there once that vaccine was set and the entire vaccines were set and after the weeks went by that you need to make it really full. That had a huge effect and you saw it in one of the graphs yesterday. There you saw the effect of the vaccines and the boosters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u302	Thank you. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to give a more focused answer to Mr Van Haga's question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u303	And if I've said something wrong, then he has every right to speak straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u304	We're gonna listen to the minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u305	He shakes no, so I'm getting scared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u306	I heard the Prime Minister say something a while ago about predictability and that is, of course, very difficult. But that's exactly what people need very much. I also get a lot of praise from the pictures at the press conference. Well, they have a coronabarometer in Belgium, among other things. It works with pictures: code red, then we're gonna do this, code yellow, then we're gonna do this. We had a road map here once. Could we perhaps take over some of the Belgians?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u307	Maybe I can intercede that this question does not lead to the deletion of a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u308	I think that's better, yeah. It's a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u309	Then I pass it to Ernst Kuipers, because he...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u310	The Minister is also talking about modelling. So they're questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u311	I'm also curious about the answer. May I say one more thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u312	Then it'll go back to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u313	No, not from her question! Now that Wieke Paulusma is standing here, I would like to say personally that I was impressed by what she just said. Last Sunday I saw at Buitenhof that wonderful interview with Johan Remkes and Wouter Koolmees, who with great respect told each other and with great love for politics about the formation. But they also spoke much more widely about their profession and what it is to be a politician. Then I thought: yes, it used to be and actually it still is. Let's return to that, that we have great differences with each other, but with great love for each other... Let me put it a little more neutrally: that we at least discuss these differences here with respect for each other. And let's indeed move towards society... The vast majority of people are delighted that we are doing this, because then they do not have to do it. Otherwise, we'd be here with 17 million people. We have a representative democracy; everyone else has their jobs. But those few who do fill our inboxes with bullshit... It's very good that Mrs. Paulusma said that. It was taken from my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u314	Thank you. I appreciate that, let me put it this way. I did have a question about the coronabarometer and the road map. I understand that demand goes to the Minister of VWS, but I would like to learn the lessons of that coronabarometer from Belgium, especially when it comes to our catering and culture. Then I don't know who the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u315	I have no idea what that barometer is in Belgium. So why don't you go and see Ernst Kuipers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u316	It's still the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u317	That'll be the overlap between the two of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u318	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Maybe he'll say the same thing again, which is that he'll have to go to the minister. But I'm gonna do it anyway. This morning, in the technical briefing, I asked Mr Van Dissel to show a little more support for the choices that are being made, such as a signal value. With delta, I was much tighter. For Volt, 4,000 hospitalizations seemed to be the absolute upper limit. Hopefully we won't make it with these infections; at least that's what it looks like. There are a number of variables, such as lying time, virus infection, severity and so on, and possibly some more. Mr Van Dissel responded positively. He thought it was a good suggestion to include this in the OMT dashboard and possibly also in the presentation. I would therefore like to argue in favour of supporting it with such signal values, so that people who want to read and understand the matter can also understand how we weigh here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u319	It makes sense to me. I see Ernst Kuipers nodding, too. Maybe he can go into that in a moment. Well, that's probably gonna take effect, too. My experience over the last two years, including those roadmaps, is next. If you look back on it, we've actually always followed it up, ascending and descending, including those values of 10 ic-beds and 40 hospital beds, or 25 ic-beds and 100 hospital beds, and the steps you had to take. I think it was a joint search worldwide at Omikron how sickening it is and especially how hospitalizing it is, how many people get through to the hospital. We know so much about that now. It makes sense to me, but there's probably a whole world of modelling behind that too. That's what Ernst's gonna come up with. But we're both nodding to the point. Now for the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u320	Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. No? Let me take a look at Mr Jansen, because I saw him stand up for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u321	You don't have to. He wakes up, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u322	You don't have to. Mr Jansen, and then Mrs Westerveld. I saw you make a move, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u323	Well, actually, it wasn't. But I did ask a question during my input, and I actually waited a bit for it, because I didn't hear it in the row.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u324	What was that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u325	About the digital identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u326	I think that's what the Minister is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u327	Then it's probably gonna be the second term, because I heard from my people that he was with Kuipers. Kuipers now says, "He's with you." So we'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u328	We'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u329	Yeah, he'll come back, and if that's enough, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u330	I was just asking a few questions about the controllability of the policy. I asked: how can RIVM say "until 5:00 p.m.," then the OMT says "until 8:00 p.m.," and then it's decided until 10:00 p.m.? The Prime Minister indicated that it also has to do with enforcement, among other things. Security regions would also have called for one closing time. But I was just looking at the Cathouse pieces that were on the table. In this I read literally that the security regions want no closing time imposed on the cultural sector. The security regions also stress the importance of creating opportunities for events, also in connection with the opening of the new season. Now I don't have to play a word game here, but it does stress for a while that it is very difficult for us to control. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the precise consideration has been if the security regions say again that they do not want a closing time. So how can we ensure that the government makes the right decisions here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u331	Clear. Monday's Security Council was really clear. The Safety Council of the 25 security regions on Monday said: please choose one closing time. At least that's how it got back to me. I can double-check it again, but that's clear. We also talked about the police in the Catshuis, because the police have also said that it can be attractive for enforcement to have different closing times. There is another group of experts who say: no, beware; then people are going to hang on the streets until the others come out and then it leads to less enforcement again. So there are differences of opinion. In that sense, it's just different. But Monday's Security Council was very clear. I'll double-check it again, but the feedback I got was: cross the board one closing time; don't vary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u332	The Prime Minister continues his speech. I think we're going to compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u333	There was one question about compensation. First of all, I also said to Wybren van Haga....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Look at the nighthoreca or the unplaced events; they are still in a mess. That's just really bad. They can therefore continue to count on the support package, including the event guarantee schemes. The cabinet has previously decided to extend the support package until the first quarter of 2022. This will therefore remain available to those who suffer a loss of turnover due to the ongoing corona measures and will be able to cope with any turnover losses over the coming months. The cultural sector in particular is affected by the fact that the measures run until 31 January. This week there is a decision on additional support for the cultural sector, including the supplementary scheme. Gunay Uslu, the Secretary of State for Culture and Media, is expected to inform the Chamber very soon. The generic support package, including the NOW and the TVL, also remains open to entrepreneurs and the cultural sector. The development of the current fifth cultural support package, which runs in December and January, will be sent to the Chamber next week by the Secretary of State. This includes the important supplement for live performances, whereby up to 85% of the tickets can be sold. For the event sector we have a guarantee scheme. This applies if there is a prohibition on the basis of the corona measures. At the moment, this guarantee can only be invoked once the ban has been formally declared, as happened last night for the unplaced events. The Minister of EZK is looking very closely at this, so that the guarantee scheme can eventually be adjusted and to arrange the following. If an organizer has an event within three weeks and there is still no clarity as to whether the ban is actually being extended, such an organizer will be given the choice to cancel it in advance and then use the guarantee scheme. That is another discussion in Brussels. It will be checked whether the authorities agree to this because of the State aid arrangements. We have good faith in that. Moreover, it continues for three quarters, up to and including three quarters of this year. Of course there is also the addition to the concession events. Finally. In the last press conference, Micky Adriaansens, the Minister of EZK, spoke in the debate last week, which also looked at the other issue. That's because you have the NOW and the TVL. But now that it is taking so long, new problems are also emerging in the economy that need to be addressed. Together with Sigrid Kaag, Karien van Gennip and the three State Secretarys of the Departments of Economic Affairs and Climate, Finance and Social Affairs and Employment, they are looking at what else you can do to see what is possible there. Well, that's still going on, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u334	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has appointed here that a number of support packages will continue. This is very important, especially for artists in the art sector. There are a lot of groups, but we are also talking about that group today. I will also address the questions I want to put here and the comments I want to make here to the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. I think it's in place there. But I'd actually like to ask the Prime Minister a favor. I would ask him to draw even more attention to its handling. We are getting more and more stories from people who have had to use the scheme. Fortunately, this is an arrangement that was set up very quickly to help people at the beginning of the pandemic. Now a lot of people get into trouble when it comes to paying off, paying back and stuff like that. Once again, I will ask both those concerned to do the same. But I would very much appreciate it if the Prime Minister would also pay attention to that and ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u335	That is what has been promised. They're listening to you. I would like to ask you to give me some official information. I do have a hunch where that problem might be. But I want to know that very precisely. If you have any signals, please give them to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u336	I'll bundle the e-mails and send them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u337	It is good to hear from the Prime Minister that compensation is being looked at even further. In any case, I am getting reports that the current conditions of the current TVL and NOW rules are so strict that they experience this as a dead sparrow, I say. So I hope that will be taken away, because now it will all take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u338	Yeah, as in... I have to say it very precisely. We're not very specific right now... I'll relay the signal to the troika. So far it's not so much that they're watching the NOW and the TVL. They may do so indirectly, because they are looking at the long-term nature of the crisis and whether it is creating additional problems that the NOW and TVL are not sufficiently at risk. They'll see what you can do about it. But I will ask for this signal to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u339	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then we go to enforcement. That has nothing to do with Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u340	No, because we would have done it before she asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u341	Yes, exactly! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u342	Throw me in jail! "Nor" is a beautiful word to me. It's in the Acts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u343	Yeah, like "petoot" or "lick."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u344	I just had a question. I think I heard the Prime Minister say that culture wants to be open longer, but isn't it true that culture wants to be open? So she doesn't want to open from 7:00 to 10:00, but from 8:00 to 11:00. Then the number of hours is the same; it is only distributed differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u345	Yeah, but the point is that there are some things going on. If you keep sectors open longer, that means that people are also visible longer in social life. Of course, all this is allowed; we are a free country. We're all allowed to be on the street, even after 10:00. Luckily, we don't have curfew right now. But that does mean you're going to the theater later and then you're there. That's one. So two is the Security Council. I'm going to double-check that now, because Mrs Westerveld has received another signal. I really think I said that just right, but again, I'm double-checking. That Security Council says from the point of view of enforcement, as a final after compliance and control: do us a great favor by really using one end time for football matches, for theatres, for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u346	I'm just gonna hold off on my next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u347	Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been answered. Let me take a look at the questions I still have about enforcement. For example, there has been a question of how to make things better. This is a follow-up, additional, to the discussion now. I would like to add one more point, and that is that the cabinet, together with VNO-NCW, SME-Netherlands and VNG, has drawn up a plan to promote control. This consists of the two well-known elements, namely central support by entrepreneurs and means for implementation through municipalities. That was additional to all the interruptions we have just had, but the enforcement questions have actually been answered. They were all about the discussion about the end time of 10:00 p.m. Then I'll come to the group and ask you other questions. Disinformation first. The question was raised by Mrs Güntoğan. There is a broad approach to disinformation surrounding COVID-19 and vaccination. Firstly, we try to disseminate as much knowledge as possible about disinformation itself. We gather as much additional knowledge as possible about disinformation from the network of experts and make it a tool for disinformation in corona time. It's being launched this week. Furthermore, we talk to youth workers about disinformation and how you stay in conversation with each other. Finally, we disseminate knowledge on the subjects that often come back as disinformation. We do this through all kinds of channels: reichsoverheid.nl, social media, but also through a website for people who have doubts about their vaccine, i.e. pebbles without appointment.nl. There is also an attempt to debunk all matters every time. Anyway, it's not entirely preventable. There are also communication signs above the road. We must also ensure that they do not become too cheerful and demand too much attention, because that is not good for road safety. But they're here. In principle, they have always had to do with traffic movements. For example, it said "avoid crowds." From spreading completely different messages in that way, which have nothing to do with traffic, experts say: you shouldn't do that, because then it distracts too much. Nevertheless, I agree with Mrs van der Plas that a message to help each other and to take care of each other is important. We have, of course, already paid attention to this in all kinds of ways in communication over the last few years. Think of the campaign Attention for each other a year ago. We are going to see how we can also emphasise that message in other ways. But once again, of the texts on the matrix signs above the highways, the experts say that you should try to focus them as much as possible on issues related to traffic. As I said, it can be linked to corona, for example in the case of the message 'avoid crowds'. Mr President, I would like to conclude by asking Mrs Gündoğan about learning from the pandemic. She said that the pandemic also led to a pandemic of violence, to more victims of violence. That is, of course, a very serious matter and a point rightly pointed out. I can only say that the cabinet shares the concern that rising tensions due to corona can make unsafe situations even more unsafe, and that unsafe situations can arise. That's not something you can always find in hard numbers, but there are a lot of signs that this is happening. That is why extra attention to this issue is incredibly important. There is. This does not prevent it altogether, but at least attention is paid to it. In the national campaign there is a lot of work in guidelines for aid workers in families where violence plays, and in guidelines for professionals about the reporting code and the child check. I also think it is important that this aid has been made more accessible, also because we have learned from it. Think of making a chat function available at Safe Home, entering a code word at pharmacists and using additional telephone helplines. Franc Weerwind, the Minister for Legal Protection, also has this in his package. He's monitoring where further problems need to be solved. But the beginning is that it is also appointed. I was glad that Mrs Gündoğan did. I echoed what she said. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u348	Then let's go see Mrs. Gündoğan. Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Van Esch and Mr Jansen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u349	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the fact that the heart cry about the pandemic of violence also lives with the cabinet. I hope that, as a society, we can bravely take the better steps forward. However, my question about monitoring Europe's approach to disinformation has not been answered. I specifically named the DSA, the Digital Services Act, and the Code of Practice on Disinformation. It is up to us as the Netherlands to continue with this. I think that Mrs Paulusma gave it even though there really is a need in society to deal better with that kind of disinformation, but also the hatred on that kind of social media, because otherwise it is mop-up with the tap open. Wouldn't the Prime Minister care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u350	I don't want to eat away your interruptions, but I need to ask you a question back. It is my view that both the DSA and the other proposals from the Netherlands Commission are very constructive. A few years ago, we had the discussion about the tension between tackling disinformation and the freedom of expression that you want to allow to proceed as freely as possible. If you intervene too quickly, you should be careful not to intervene with a particular social or political goal in mind. It must really be aimed at tackling disinformation. That is why I always believe very strongly in making society resistant to disinformation. And that, in turn, depends on the extent of the reach of our newspapers, our free news garage. People need to realize it as best they can when faced with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u351	But a specific question was asked about Europe. Perhaps Mrs Gündoğan could explain it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u352	I have no idea anything's going wrong right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u353	I understand that much has already been done at European level and that it is now mainly up to the Member States to implement European rules at national level. It is really up to the Netherlands: how are we going to fill this out and how are we going to give hands and feet to it? You can see that American platforms pay very close attention when the U.S. government sees something as a disinformation sender. But if you do that from the Netherlands, there is disinterest to react to the Dutch or other European governments. So we're a joke to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u354	So the question is whether we are sufficiently busy converting European affairs into the Netherlands. I'm gonna double-check that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u355	Then you will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u356	I'll get back to you in second term. So that's two things. I'll check that security meeting at 10:00, and I'll check this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u357	Let me come back to the Prime Minister's response to the matrix boards. Now, for example, it says stay home. Half of them could be replaced by: help each other. That doesn't make any difference to the message. There's just something else out there right now. So I think this could be easy. If the Prime Minister can promise that extra attention will be paid to it in a campaign, for example with radio commercials, as is happening now with the basic measures, and let us know what form that will take, then I do not need to make a motion. I am considering a motion for a resolution on this matter. In view of the Van der Staaij committee in order to prevent the diarrhea of motion, these are not my words, but those of Mr Van der Staaij; I thought it was a good idea to find a way of getting something out of this one way or another. I think it's important that we communicate this as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u358	For a moment, Mr. Van der Staaij mentioned the prevention of unnecessary motions. He wasn't talking about threatening motions. I get it: if the Prime Minister agrees to do this, the motion will be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u359	Let me get this straight. One. When it comes to signs above the highways, the professional judgment is real that you shouldn't put anything on them other than things that have to do with traffic. The only link to corona is "avoid crowds" or "stay home." A message like "take care of each other" or "have attention to each other" should definitely not be on those signs. That's the professional judgment. That distracts too much and is not good for road safety. People think: hey, what does that have to do with my trip from Amsterdam to Utrecht? Then Mrs. Van der Plas could say: okay, but how do you do it? This has our attention. We are looking at how we can bring this message to our attention in other ways. The 2020 campaign included "attention to each other." We are looking at how we can re-enforce that message. In a subsequent progress letter to the Chamber, we will name how we do it. I can't promise right now that we're doing that, because I'm not doing those campaigns all day. There's a really big club working really hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u360	In the next letter you will return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u361	In the next letter, I'll let you know how we proceed with this. Maybe I'll avoid a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u362	Yeah, we'll see about that at the end of the night. I don't mean to be a pain in the ass, but I'm gonna come back to those matrix boards anyway. If I am correct, there is also a website or something with www. You can tie it to that. And if people then go to the government website and find some broader information there, then I think it should be possible. But again, I'm gonna think about it, and the lock's gonna follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u363	Yes. At least that other commitment stands. I am going to see to it that in the next progress letter we raise the issue of attention for each other and how we can activate it in society again. I believe that is what it is called in good communication jargon and bring the heat back into it. We will come back to that in the next progress letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u364	Mrs Van Esch, then Mr Jansen, then Mr Mulder and then Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u365	I should like to put a question to the Prime Minister in his role as head of this new cabinet, but perhaps also in his role as head of the previous cabinet. In the previous cabinet it was agreed, I know, that the VWS Ministry would lead the way in protecting our public health and also in combating new infectious diseases, including zoonoses. I wonder if the Prime Minister can explain to me what went wrong in the last week when we asked for a letter from the VWS Ministry about the avian influenza virus, which is a zoonoses. Then how is it that the Ministry of Agriculture finally sends that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u366	Because the cabinet always speaks with one mouth. Even if that would not happen soon, if the Minister for Poverty Reduction had sent the letter, it would still be a letter from the Cabinet. The zoonoses structure is a joint responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Agriculture. They will be able to do so every time, at least in the past few years, but that may have to be a little more precise now, or perhaps it has already set itself up on a subject-by-issue basis to see whether they are doing it from Agriculture or from VWS. The Minister of VWS was chairman of the zoonoses structure in the previous period, I say memorized it. But the Minister for Agriculture is not an independent body. He's just a member of the cabinet. We often had discussions in the cabinet in the past which names of which ministers had to go under a letter. Then I'd always say that doesn't matter at all, because it's just a letter from the cabinet, so don't complain about it. I'm not saying that to you! I also have a more substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u367	You can always do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u368	I should like to inform you that the ministries of LNV and VWS in the field of zoonoses are working closely together. Public health is always at the forefront. The distribution of responsibility is clear: LNV is about diseases in animals and as soon as it concerns public health risks, VWS is in the lead. In the case of avian flu, we closely monitor the possible transfer to humans, in humans but also in animals. The RIVM looks at the viruses found for possible changes that indicate additional risk to humans. If there are any clues to this type of change, VWS will take the lead. Actually, I already said this, but this is a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u369	Chiquer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u370	Chiquer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u371	That's a little chic. We know this answer, but a repeat is always nice. No problem at all. But I'm still gonna go through with this. In the letter from LNV, which does not even contain the Ministry of Health, the letter was literally sent only by the Ministry of Health, I do not see that the risks to public health are being taken into account. I wonder if this Prime Minister can guarantee that public health interests always go beyond the interests of agriculture. Let me give you one example. In the past, the evaluation of the Q-fever outbreak clearly indicated that this was not the case with the Q-fever outbreak. Following that outbreak, it has been indicated that VWS must have the perseverance force in order to intervene at the time when it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u372	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u373	I can see it going wrong again. I really want another reflection on that from this Prime Minister. I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u374	Again, the ministries of LNV and VWS work together when it comes to zoonoses, so when it comes to the risks of jumping animal diseases on humans. Public health is at the forefront of this. A letter from the Minister of Agriculture is also a letter from me and from the entire cabinet, and also from Ernst Kuipers. There is no separate cabinet with the Minister of Agriculture in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u375	Finishing at this point. I wonder if this Minister of the United States of America has signed, signed and agreed with the content of this letter, and I think that we should fight against the avian influenza virus in this way. I think I will have to stand on the microphone very regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u376	This is also a question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u377	In a state-law sense, that's always the case. That goes for everything. Letters are sent to the Chamber all day long. I can see a group of them, but all these letters are also on my behalf, on behalf of all of us, on behalf of all 29 members of the cabinet. Your question is more specifically whether he saw him himself. He should take a look at it, but I would point out that that is not always possible. A minister from VWS or SZW goes home with three plumbing bags and there is a division of labour. Within that department, the administrative hierarchy ensures that ministers see it if there is any doubt about the alignment. If there is no doubt, then it does not necessarily have to be. Maybe we should check that out here. But there's always real unity of government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u378	I initially wanted to wait until the second term, but the Prime Minister has been in charge of his cabinets for 11, 12 years and I am sure he has an answer to this question. In my contribution I had quoted Follow the Money. They write that the European Commission will let them know that in the coming months there will be cooperation with Member States to develop a digital identity. My simple question is really only: who is responsible for this on behalf of the Netherlands, on behalf of the cabinet, on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u379	I have no idea. This is what the Minister of VWS will be discussing in a moment. I've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u380	The Prime Minister has indicated that the Minister will return to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u381	Yes, because we decided in the division of tasks that he would do the CTBs, so that question comes back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u382	Then I give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV and then to Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u383	The Netherlands has had a hard lockdown. That was a terrible time. Today, a first step is being taken. According to the PVV, it's happening too late and it's not far enough. Anyway, it's a first step. I was wondering if we could also take a first step in abolishing these CTBs, not only because it only offers false safety, but also because it excludes large groups and later millions of Dutch. That's why I'm asking now. There is a limited validity of these CTBs. I cannot imagine that the Prime Minister wants to exclude millions of Dutch people from sports, from going to a restaurant and so on. At least I hope he doesn't want to, and so we can take a first step towards abolishing these CTBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u384	In fact, the Minister goes into this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u385	I know, but I have a feeling there's easier business with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u386	Oh, what makes you feel that way? Then the answer is absolutely no. No, we're not gonna do that, not because I'm so happy with the moaning every time with the QR code and everything, I find it all annoying too, but because it has to. We're just still at a stage where it's all too risky. Of course, the effect of these instruments increases as the R is closer to the 1 and decreases when the R is well above the 1, but the fact is that it still has an extra value. The VWS Minister will look into this in a moment. It's not a closed system. It's not like it's preventing all the infections, but it helps. In Europe, we are really at the bottom with the use of CTBs. We don't have 2G. We don't have to wear masks in a lot of places. There are all good reasons for this and it is partly because these discussions are still ongoing. But we cannot and cannot see today that we are heading towards 80,000 infections and want to open up a lot and also an instrument that leads to a moderation of the rise of the infections, because we find it annoying. I just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u387	Surely the Prime Minister can't seriously think that he's going to want to exclude millions of Dutch people from all these everyday things? I just can't believe he wants me to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u388	I don't want to do that either, but I don't want a virus either. I don't want so much. I don't want to rule anyone out either. You don't have to, because anyone can...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u389	That's too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u390	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u391	In the division of roles we agreed that Ernst Kuipers would answer this. I don't have the numbers in front of me here, 'cause they're in his pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u392	I ask, because the Prime Minister always says to stand up for all the Dutch. Millions of Dutch people will not be able to function in everyday life, especially because the period of validity is limited. I don't understand why you can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u393	We really want to ensure that as many people as possible always have access to everyday life. We want as little freedom as possible. Ernst Kuipers will immediately discuss how that works with the CTB, how long the CTB is valid, where you can get the booster and where you can get the vaccines.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u394	I understand that, but once again, you're in charge of a cabinet that introduces that those CTBs are limited in validity. This means that in a few months millions of Dutch people will no longer be able to enter the pub, while you now say "we are going to open again and we are taking a risk." You decide that those millions of Dutch people can no longer go to a restaurant and no longer go to the gym.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u395	Then why don't they get a booster?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u396	Wait a minute. This Chamber has agreed by a large majority not to apply compulsion and urge. So you can't put it now as some kind of sanction. You can't force them to get a booster so they can go in. This Chamber has said by a large majority that this is not acceptable. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u397	Again, CTB is linked to whether you've been vaccinated, through the disease or tested. That's how it works. Those are the three ways you can go in with 3G. At some point, the vaccine expires. We also know that its effects are very quickly reduced with omikron. It's very wise to booster anyway. You also saw yesterday in one of the pictures that the Minister of VWS showed that boosters are really very important to prevent, for example, ic recordings and hospitalisations. It's inevitable that when a vaccine starts to lose its effect, because it works less anyway, or because there are new variants that it works less on, you're going to look at booster programs. I don't quite understand what the difference is between the booster and the vaccine and why that is suddenly such a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u398	Your fifth question again, Mr. Mulder. Let me protect you, because there will also be a minister who might also be able to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u399	He's prepared for this, though, for this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u400	You're dealing with your own division.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u401	Thank you. But I don't make a difference between the vaccine and the booster, that's not the point. The point is that you can't force people to get that shot or a booster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u402	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u403	You will do that with this measure. I don't understand why you can't just see that, or you're playing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u404	Okay, so the CTB and 3G work like this, right? Either I've had the disease and have a cure or I've been tested very recently or I've got the vaccine. And that vaccine loses its duration of action once and then you can get a booster. I have now in my QR-code that I understand that I can't go to Germany with that, but we're going to talk about that. I've also talked about the booster. If you don't want the booster, you can come in through tests. As long as we don't have 2G, that's a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u405	I understand that the Prime Minister came at the end of his varia and thus at the end of his part of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u406	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u407	I have heard the Prime Minister about the Security Council, but not yet about my question whether he wants to talk to the Security Council about whether and how we deal with carnival.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u408	That's a very good one. I'd have seen that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u409	There was also a question from Mrs Kuik about the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u410	We're not talking about the OVV report. That's independent. Or do you have it in your pile? We can only inform about this. That's what Kuipers comes back to. He's got the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u411	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u412	So he's coming. Let's see. About carnival I know that Dilan Yeşilgöz will talk to the carnival communities soon to see how they can do it safely within the rules. That conversation is taking place. I'm really wondering how that question isn't in the set here. But at least that's the answer. I briefly mentioned this yesterday at the press conference. That discussion between the Minister of Justice and Security and the Carnival communities about how to do it as safely as possible is going to take place, of course for carnival.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u413	I'll take that as a commitment, and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u414	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u415	I had another question. There will be a long-term policy for corona on paper. Minister Kuipers will come back to that. The question I have to the Prime Minister is to what extent the position of entrepreneurs in this area, for example, in terms of support measures and opportunities, will also be given a place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u416	That is the intention, but we still have to develop it completely. We need to see what it means in the longer term for aid and how to revive some of the normal adaptability in the economy. That is, of course, something that we must keep in mind. For now, of course, that is not the issue at all. You're gonna need those support packages. I understand the wish and it is obvious, but we still have to develop that long-term story completely. I also have the answer at the 10:00 p.m. Where did Mrs Westerveld go? I have the answer. The Security Council writes to us that in the consultation it had yesterday with Minister Yeşilgöz of Security and Justice, it was discussed that a closing time of 10 p.m. could work well for them. There has also been a call for one closing time for all sectors. This is most evident in communication and the most practical in implementation and enforcement. That was Monday night's Security Council. So I did the check. The second point remains that I will return to Mrs Gündoğan in the second term on the question of European agreements on how to deal with disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u417	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes and then we'll go to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Let's see how far we get, because we also have a dinner break. But I think it's a good thing we're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u418	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to answer the questions of the Chamber. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd be happy to. As before, I have a large number of folders, in which the answers are grouped as much as possible. First of all, I should like to address the epidemiological picture and the questions that were raised on this subject. Then there are the long-term policies, the care, vaccination, tests and corona admissions and then the remaining questions. I'll start with the epidemiological image. This morning, it has already passed in the technical briefing, but I would like to remind you that we had over 58,000 positive tests today and that a number of tests are still being carried out. The actual number is above 70,000. The average number of positive tests over the last seven days was 55% higher than the average of the previous seven days. This indeed happens what the prediction was, in terms of the development of the number of infections, when we stood here last time and decided to relax. Then we were at 35,000 infections a day. The prophecy was that we're heading for the 75,000 to 100,000. That seems to be the case now. The pressure on care when it comes to the number of covid patients is fortunately in proportion to previous periods low. I am not saying that the pressure is nil, but compared to previous times it is low. The number of ic patients has been below 300 for a long time and is still falling. The number of clinical patients has increased again in the last few days. The seven-day average shows an increase from just above 100 to 125 patients on average per day over the last seven days. So you could say it's an increase of 25%. That's the setting we're talking about. You have already seen Mr Van Dissel's predictions about what could possibly happen in the coming period, both about the influx of patients and about the occupation. That is the situation we gave a reflection on yesterday. With each image we experience two important issues. On the one hand, people fail because they are in isolation or in quarantine, on the other hand, the pressure on care, apart from all other issues that have just been discussed. That brings me to the answer to the questions. I shall begin with a question from Mr Hijink. He asked for the precise impact on the R-number of the measures. The most direct answer is that, unfortunately, it is not possible to calculate exactly what the precise effect of each individual measure is. That depends on people's behavior. That's what you usually see in the post-evaluation evaluation, because it's always a learning process. There is never a single specific measure, let alone different measures being rolled out in different places in the Netherlands. In that sense, you have no direct comparison. We can see that in the comparison in the packages. A comprehensive package is being looked at. You can see the impact of that, but you can also see the bandwidth in it. Certainly further along in time it becomes big. The direct answer to the question is therefore that it is not possible to calculate it exactly. What we do know is that measures that restrict contacts have a dampening effect on the R-value, because the virus then spreads less easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u420	The risk is that I'm gonna mix up the Minister's order. He says that he cannot indicate exactly what the effect of the measures on the R-value is. Still, he does. Yesterday he said in the press conference on the corona tickets that 3G has an effect on lowering the R-value to 15%. That was a wrong number mentioned by the Minister. It was corrected today by the chief of that research at TU Delft. He says: no, it's not 15%, it's not 5.4%, but even less than that. I would like to ask the Minister to correct what he said yesterday about lowering the R-number in relation to corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u421	What I don't want to correct is what I said yesterday. I said yesterday that according to TU Delft's research, the impact of corona access tickets could reach 15%. I was asked the specific question as to whether this depends on the extent to which it is being used. I have confirmed this: yes, that depends on the extent to which it is deployed. The exact number in the TU Delft report is even something else; that is just a fraction higher. But this is what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u422	I really think the Minister's screwing around. I'm sorry to put it this way, but he does. Yesterday, in the press conference, he called millions of people looking at these figures about the reduction of the R-number in relation to the corona tickets. He mentioned the number of 15%. Last week we discussed this 15% here in the debate, and that is why I blame him. Last week we had the same discussion. That 15% refers to the situation where you would apply 3G in all situations except at home and except at school. But that is not the situation, and that is not the situation, not even with the legislative proposals that the cabinet wants to implement. So that 15% is a fictional number. In addition, the researchers themselves state: beware when you mention that number, because we do not include the alternative contacts that people will seek without a ticket. So on all possible fronts, that 15% figure isn't just hypothetical, but we're never gonna make it, given the situation we have. Even the researcher who did the research says: it's not 15%, it's not even 5.4%, it's even less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u423	I said exactly what I said. I can repeat that one more time. I said up to 15%. And yes, that depends on the extent to which you wager it. There will be further discussion on this subject. I'll talk to you later about the CTBs. But you have asked technical questions, and I would like to answer them first. That is the basis for further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u424	I really hope that in future, when it comes to 2G and 3G, we will be able to have a proper debate. And I hope that when the Minister speaks to millions of Dutch people in a press conference, he will inform people fairly about the potential impact of the measures taken by the Cabinet. That's just not happening right now, and I really blame him for that. I am actually assuming that people can rely on it and rely on it to be informed fairly. If a journalist asks a question about the corona admission ticket, I assume that the Minister is honest: this is the effect it has now and this is what the effect could be, for example, if the laws we intend to enforce would continue. But the Minister doesn't. He's using a fictional number. I'll call in the report. The researcher "Mouter" says: the greater the number of people infected, the smaller the effect of 3G. He also says he doesn't recognize himself in the numbers the minister mentioned. I think that is very serious, because if these questions are asked by journalists, people can expect the Minister to answer truthfully. If we can't have that certainty...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u425	I give the floor to the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u426	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I would like to say one more thing. If we cannot be sure that the Minister is giving honest answers to questions that are being asked, whether they are here or at a press conference, then what are we going to do with the answers that the Minister gives in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u427	Mr Hijink is already seriously questioning my honesty and the confidence he has in me at the first answer that I now give. That's special. I repeat what I have literally said: depending on the extent to which it is deployed, the effect can be up to 15%. That's what you'll find in the report. That's what we discussed here last time. The impact of the report is for many people that it has no effect at all. I strongly distance myself from that. So I'm saying the impact can be up to 15%. I would like to give an explanation, because that too is often marginalized: 15% is nothing at all. If you see the actual effect, for example on the current number of currently on average 55,000 reported infections, then a reduction of 15% per cycle of a few days is very significant. I think that we should be very specific about this. I am absolutely open to having any discussion about this. But it is Mr Hijink's big words to say that I am not informed correctly and that it is not true. It's in the report; anyone can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u428	Then I'm gonna ask the question differently. The TU Delft report states that this 15% could be hypothetically achieved in the situation that 3G would be introduced in all situations, except at home and except at school. That's what it says. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u429	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u430	In those situations, except at home, except at school. Is the Minister planning to do that? Does the government want to go that way: 3G and 2G at all locations except at home and at school? If he doesn't, does he recognise that 15% isn't going to be reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u431	I would first like to answer the technical questions and then have a discussion on the possible added value and use of corona tickets other than the way in which this is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u432	This is not an answer to my question. TU Delft says that this 15% reduction in the R-number is hypothetically feasible only if you use 3G everywhere in all situations, from care to shops, except at home and at school. Does the Minister intend to actually introduce 3G in all these situations? And if he doesn't, does he recognise that 15% isn't gonna be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u433	At the moment, the Minister has no intention but to answer the technical questions that have been asked. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u434	I will look at Mrs Westerveld, but first I will give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u435	Yeah, at the same time. I realize we're coming back to the corona pass, but I'm getting to it because it's a discussion point right now. The question to the minister at the press conference was I have the literal text here in front of me why he's holding on to that corona pass. Then, referring to TU Delft's research, the Minister replies: what they calculate in different situations is that it can have 15% dampening effect. If I stand between the two now, between the minister and the one who interrupted, you can say that that "may have" indicates that there is a certain margin in it. But on the other hand, I also understand Mr Hijink's point. The suggestion was: if we stick to the corona pass, that saves 15%. Does the Minister agree with those who say, as Mr Hijink did with a reference to researchers, that, in the current situation, that effect is actually much lower than that 15% given the high number of infections and also the situation that the protective effect of vaccines in that variant is less?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u436	As I said in my introduction, the number of infections is currently sky high. I used the words "unknown height" for that. That number will rise. The prediction with the previous set of measures was already that that would rise to between 75,000 and 100,000 per day. The prophecy is now that it can rise even higher than that. Those are very large numbers. On that kind of numbers smaller percentages in absolute terms are still large numbers of infections that you then occur. We are now in a situation where we are looking for possibilities in these contamination rates........................................................................................................................................................................... In that setting you should see if there are any activities that we can undertake to mitigate the increase in the number of infections as much as possible. Corona tickets are such an activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u437	That's the "help all bits" argument. On the other hand, given the impact of the corona ticket, I find that it always asks for a weighting whether the benefits still outweigh the disadvantages. Then you can see that the effect of the corona access ticket is actually getting less, precisely because of the high number of infections and the factors that the researchers call and all of them are taking into account the overall effect. Then the question is legitimate whether you would not do well to refrain from doing so. At least that is what we, as SGP, are advocating, particularly in the current picture. Isn't the problem with the corona pass that it's actually too light in the good times and too heavy in the bad times?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u438	Mr President, we are already answering the technical questions. There aren't few of them. I've got a lot of questions and I really suggest I answer them first and that we... Otherwise, we're going to have the debate here. I'd like to, but yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u439	The Minister has indicated that he would like to answer the questions first. I am therefore looking at Mrs Westerveld and the other Members to respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u440	I understand that, but of course it is about the importance of very precise information when it comes to far-reaching legislative proposals. Of course, it is also important that the cabinet should address a very large part of the Netherlands with such a press conference. At the end of the press conference, a journalist also asked whether making more tests possible would allow more events to take place and more visitors to be admitted. And we also got an answer to that, in which the Minister referred to the TU Delft report and said: yes, if we are going to apply tests, it could amount to 4.4 million a day. Yeah, so many people don't go to a football game every day, of course. In fact, the number of people who attended an event in 2019 was about 137 million. So there too the report was referred to and at the same time a number was mentioned that was not the answer to that question. It is not intended to provoke a discussion, but to emphasise once again that we must keep it as precise as possible when discussing far-reaching measures and what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u441	I couldn't agree more. Indeed, we must keep it as precise as possible and that is why I gave the answer I gave just now. Again, I was aware yesterday in those answers that we both stayed away from discussing options like "we're going a route to." I do that consciously, because I think that, as I said, first... I was right to have questions from you. I will answer that and then we will debate it. However, I get questions from journalists. This is how it works, of course, on which direction I am actually going to go. Well, then I'll just give you answers that sort of define the contours. It can go up to high numbers, but I'm not saying anything about what we're going to do exactly for. For that, I just want to start the conversation and answer your questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u442	Mr Kuzu van DENK. And for the people who are looking at us, I understand that some 146 factual questions have been asked. The Ministry is in the process of answering these questions, and tomorrow the discussion of the three laws, including 2G, will also be on the agenda. And the input of the further reports has been postponed in relation to the factual questions that have been asked about the report. Then everyone who looks and wonders what it's about is up to speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u443	That's right. I also understand why the Minister says: I have to answer those factual questions first and then we have to deal with it as it should be, in committee and then perhaps in the House of Representatives. We still have to talk about the procedure, but yesterday at the press conference the Minister indicated the 15% figure. Last week I asked him the question: can he understand that it gives the impression that this minister is pre-sorting for a measure that might be taken? Can he at least understand that there are people in the country who feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u444	I have just indicated that the overall impact of the report is from many parties: you see, corona tickets have no effect whatsoever. At the same time, many of these people have just been talking about the European situation, and we have seen that the corona tickets are being applied extensively in the surrounding countries, often in a much stronger way than in the Netherlands. I do not know what it is like for Mr Kuzu, but many of the people I hear, after they have come back from abroad, speak with praise: yes, I had to show something everywhere. I am not taking the lead in this, but I would point out that it is too easy to say: that report shows that it has no effect and let us get rid of it immediately. You have to position that something else, but with that I'm not taking an advance on whether or not we're going to apply it. We are now applying 3G policies to a limited extent, so let us wait for questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u445	At the same time, the image has emerged, both during and after the press conference, that there is a pre-sorting of a possible measure to be taken. You hear that, too, when you put your ear to your ears in society. This is thus reinforced by the Minister's reference to a percentage for the dampening effect of 15%. He's doing that, while it's indicated that that's not gonna be achieved by a long shot the way we're doing it right now. As we now do 3G, very limited, it still, still, has a much smaller percentage. My question is this. If we weigh that against the social costs that we are making, where we are actually going to a surveillance society where one citizen has to decide whether the other citizen can enter, does the Minister think that this is justified in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u446	If we are going to a situation with possibly 100,000 infections per day, and at the same time we are quite right to ask whether we can ensure that society opens as wide as possible, then I think that the idea of using corona tickets is entirely plausible, if that is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u447	It is no longer a question of considering using them. In fact, this is already the case, so based on the models and research of TU Delft, we see that this 15% is not being achieved, that this 5.4% is not being achieved and that it is probably a much lower percentage. Then my specific question is: given the unrest in society, given what we are doing, I cannot imagine that this minister thinks it is responsible and socially acceptable to continue to do so. I therefore agree with what Mr Van der Staaij is actually saying, namely: let's just stop doing that now, right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u448	Unfortunately, I think it is far too early to go into and agree with Mr Kuzu's proposal. I believe that the use of corona tickets at the moment in everything we do now, in the case of high levels of contamination, while the pressure on care is increasing again, within the existing possibilities really makes sense and therefore also sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u449	Thank you. You were working on the first theme. Maybe it's good to answer the questions about the CTB and the testing right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u450	Do you want me to finish the first theme? We've already answered part of it. Let's get back to epidemiology. A question from Mrs Westerveld was: for control it is necessary to provide support; has RIVM also modelled later closure? Part of that has already been mentioned. No, that did not happen, other than 5:00 p.m., where it was said: under strict conditions it can be stretched until 8:00 p.m. The reason we have chosen for 10 p.m. has just been mentioned. Mr Jansen asked: how proportional are the measures? In addition, he makes the comparison with the flu. The obvious answer is: corona is far from comparable to the flu. Mr Van Dissel explained this in the technical briefing this morning. The disease burden of corona, even with existing measures, is much greater than the average disease burden of an annual flu wave, which we control with a vaccination campaign but without further measures. Then there is a question from Mrs Tielen about the WRR report and the endemic situation. That report describes a number of scenarios. Scenario 2 is based on what is then called a "flu-pleasure," where covid is endemic with within certain limits, within bandwidths, persistently recurring likely seasonal recovery. That's kind of what it's all about. The WHO has just indicated that it is too early to really equate covid with influenza in this respect. RIVM did the same. It gives a slightly different picture of illness. If we're going to figure out where we're going with these five scenarios, we're going to have to line out scenario 1 of full dampening right now. It won't be. It may well be that we're about to come up with such an endemic scenario. Especially if we have variants that, such as now an omikron, protect vaccinations and boosters from which a previous infection also protects against and which are less sickening as a net result, then we can come to such an endemic situation. But it's still too early to tell if we're really coming to that. It may also be that at some point there is a new variant that spreads just as fast or faster than the omikron and yet is more sickening again. We just can't predict that right now. Occasionally there are signals of the potential emergence of such a virus. You know that's monitored all the time. That's what people turn up and look at right away. So far, the following variants remain small again, indicating less rapid spread than with omikron. In other words, we're looking at those scenarios. We're taking them too, but it's too soon to say: this will be it. We've been thinking for a long time: it's going to die out, especially with vaccination. Then we thought, "It's gonna be a flu-plus." But it's really too early to really say that. Then there was a question from Mr Van der Staaij about immunity. He asked if it would give more room for young people. Immunity after an infection also works through in the final decrease in the number of infections. So this is also included in models. In the long term, extra space will indeed be created. In addition, an infection can also be used in a corona pass and you do not need to be quarantined after a recent infection. On the question, "does that give you more room?" So the answer is yes. Mrs. Tielen asked about the toolbox. She asked what the possible measures are and what it's proven to work. As you know, we have used many different measures over the last two years, with the aim, among other things, of reducing the number of infections, keeping sight and keeping care accessible. What works in an infectious disease is to reduce the number of contacts or to make those contacts as safe as possible. I always say: the chance of getting infected is the number of contacts times the chance of getting infected with a particular contact. That then depends on many factors, which are partly influenced by you. In the meantime, we have also learned a little bit about how people actually deal with measures and what their behavior is. We consider this behavioral component and the wide impact of the measures on social vitality and accessibility of care. We have already done that, but we have to do much more in the future, as has just been discussed. I will come back to that later on. Mrs Tielen also asked about the protocols, the field labs and the co-responsibility of sectors to open up. The results of these pilots, of those field labs, have largely become part of the current measures. Think of making a distinction between placed and unplaced, separating groups, deploying and validating the corona tickets and capacity restrictions. These have also been included in their discussions in the last week by colleagues, including those of EZK, SZW and legal matters. It is also included in various protocols and measures for a wide range of sectors. As the Prime Minister has already said, they have actually indicated: simply give us responsibility and let us help set things up in such a way that we can all open as safely as possible. The same applies to colleagues, but also to myself. I am really talking to a very broad group of sectors, in the form of a sounding board group, to see how we can move towards a good, effective and perhaps, hopefully, more predictable use of measures in the long term. Then Mr Van Haga asked how many infections are prevented by closing at 10 p.m. instead of midnight. It has also just been mentioned that the effect of an evening closure decreases as contacts go through later. Ultimately, it depends on the number of contacts and on the duration and intensity. With a later closure we also take a risk of an increase in the number of infections. I have just mentioned that the OMT and the RIVM were initially on the 5:00 hour line, with an exit to 8:00 p.m., subject to strict conditions. For reasons already mentioned, we finally decided to close at 10 p.m. That is a significant step forward. Then I come to a question from Mrs Tielen about scientific knowledge and models. Her question was whether these models are sufficiently explainable. This is an important point, which is very much addressed. That also affects the subject we have just discussed. We pay great attention to communicating as easily as possible on these topics, in communication about measures, about risks, about the impact and importance of vaccination, about quarantine, about tests and so on. There are also a lot of videos, visuals and hotplates used, along with Steffie modules. I've just had a moment to explain what Steffie modules are. You know it all, but I didn't know it. Many materials are also tested in advance through soundboard groups. So this is the explanation. You can't simplify the models on their own. Sometimes a model is the case: the more parameters you can put in it, the more fine tuned is the result that you will eventually get. But that is, of course, a moving insight based on a model. You have to put the new data in there over and over again, as I mentioned myself. But a lot of attention to that, because it's really important. There was another question from Mrs Tielen. It's also about communicating. Are the press conferences and the coronadashboard communicating enough? Can we think about smarter and effective communication? It happens. I will come back to the question of long-term policy. You have seen that, among other things, we have tried this at the press conference the last two times with a slightly different structure, using visuals, less text from our side and really focusing on as clear a language as possible. At the end of such a press conference, we will use a wide range of resources and media to explain everything once again and see what the response to it is. Mr Van Haga asked when COVID-19 would be removed from the A list. The answer is not yet. For the time being, international commitments are also being discussed. But, of course, we are all committed to keeping the measures as they need to be. That's what we're hoping for. The removal of an A list is something for the moment when it can actually be done. So much for my epidemiology questions. Then we'll get to the long term. Yesterday we mentioned it of course at the press conference and last time we did so: in the meantime we have two years of experience with this virus. As already mentioned, we now assume that it will not go away. We will also have to deal with this in the next longer period, in any setting: whether that is endemic or with short flares. We need to see that. Society has suffered a great deal of damage. In the beginning, the focus was, quite understandablely, really on care and access to care. But in the meantime we know what this does, for example with the mental health of young people, of people who have long been in uncertainty about their jobs and with people who have been working at home for a very long time. I myself, for example, have a great deal of admiration for teaching staff who had to teach online for very long periods of time. I don't know about you, but I already find two or three online meetings very difficult, let alone I can imagine how you do that as a teacher. So a lot of damage and a lot of impact. But there is an uncertain, precise future ahead. RIVM and WHO indicate that it is really too early to consider this something endemic or flu. Of course, we do have a number of handles. I have already mentioned the WRR report, with five scenarios for the possible further development. We are now dealing with a variant that is less sickening. I am very fond of it, and I did so consciously yesterday, first of all to highlight the importance of the immunity that has been built up, either because people have had an infection or because they have had vaccination. That has the greatest impact on making less sick and less infecting. Then comes the fact that this variant probably spreads faster, but in terms of illness it is slightly milder. We translate it very quickly to the opposite, but it starts with defenses and, of course, with measures. In those pathways, first towards the remaining part of this winter season, the winter season 21-22, then for the rest of the year and then, and finally for wider pandemic preparedness, we are working on the different steps. In the process we are now trying to achieve a more balanced decision-making process. That's work in progress. You must allow us to do this: that is work in progress. We have taken the first steps, such as sending an OMT advice earlier. You asked me about that last time. So we sent it as soon as it was final. Mind you, that's a different time than when news about it already appeared in the news. You are surprised, and we are doing the same. But we sent it as soon as it was final. Other steps are a slightly different way of communicating, I said that already already, and also explicitly, engage in conversation with a lot of sectors and target groups. Something has already been said about this. Then I will inform you as follows about this long-term approach. Next week, a letter will first come your way on the intended approach for the rest of this winter. Then, at the end of February, there will be a follow-up letter for the period thereafter, i.e. the somewhat longer term. For pandemic preparedness, that will be this spring. First of all, I just mention a few components which should be mentioned in a letter next week for the remaining winter. The following aspects must then be mentioned. I'll just start; it's in random order, but then I'll start as close as possible to the direct own portfolio. Then it's about care coordination, care capacity and care staff. Then it is also about the decision-making process and it should also be about steering indicators; a number of questions have been asked about this. And then it has to be about communication. These are a number of topics in the letter that you can expect from me next week about the approach for the rest of this winter. In doing so, I automatically answered one question from Mrs Tielen: when will that letter come? So that's next week. Then Mr Kuzu asked: are we going to continue with this long-term approach as we are doing now? Then the question focuses on vaccination and measures. You will understand that, of course, and we must involve development and epidemiology. If it was going to be an endemic situation, with the same long-term, milder variant, long-term immunity and maybe just an impact on people who are vulnerable, for example because they have an underlying disease, then you're taking a different approach. Then you'll take more of an approach like we've had in influenza for a long time. That is a different approach than the one you would choose if we had a new flare with something completely different and high numbers. We can't predict that, but we can take that into account in what the different options are. Then the vaccination and the testing and the measures. I fully share the comments you have made on proportionality. I really do share that. I also said at the beginning: I want to make it very clear that I was announced, at the very beginning, if the new Covid Minister is not the new Covid Minister. Let us hope that we will discuss a lot of other issues in healthcare in the coming years. I may hope so more than you, but I think we all hope so. So yes, the answer should be about proportionality, testing and vaccinating. We're going to have a separate discussion about tickets. Let us hope that the commitment to all these aspects is as low as possible, but we will have certain parameters for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u451	Let me see if you're already at the end of the long-term theme. Let's wrap that up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u452	Do you want me to do that? I have a few more questions. Mr Segers asked about the mental situation of young people. I have just indicated that I think that is a very important subject myself. I deliberately showed that in my previous press conference. Here's what we're gonna do. In the decision-making process we also have advice from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the CPB and the behavioral unit of the RIVM. This should also be explicitly given a clearer place in the long-term approach. Then there was a question from Mrs Van Esch about the municipalities and money for pandemic preparedness. As you know, the GGDs, the municipal health services, are financed from the affiliated municipalities. They have an incredibly important task in the system of public health, as has been shown in recent times. They have also made enormous efforts in the past period, to this day. It's been remembered before. If you're just looking at the past week, you can see that they've done over 900,000 tests in a week. That is a bit separate from the booster campaign and the fact that they are still trying to vaccinate finely and so on. So it's really huge efforts. In the context of endemic preparedness, therefore, we really also come back to the question of how we can further strengthen public health in the long term. Mrs. Den Haan asked about the GD preparation. That is also in line with this issue, so I will come back to that separately. The same applies to the question of pandemic preparedness and administrative responsibility for a next pandemic. Mrs Paulusma had another question about the coronabarometer in Belgium. This coronabarometer is broadly in line with our approach so far, but an important difference is that it really gives a lot of detail by sector and for the situation inside and outside. We like to look back at the communication in what way this might help to make things more predictable and insightful for the Dutch public. So much for the answers I have on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u453	Thank you. There are a number of follow-up questions. First of all, Mr Kuzu. Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u454	I am glad that we agree with the Minister on this point. A long-term approach, including a long-term perspective, is needed, because I think a lot of people in the country are really looking for that perspective. The World Health Organisation has indicated that we are going towards an endemic situation at the end of March. My question is therefore: is it not wise to use this winter as a bridge to that long term, as one of the scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u455	Absolutely. I couldn't agree more. I do have a comment about the here and now. I very much hope that we will be able to get to the end of March as soon as possible, with as much freedom as possible, in a situation that is easily manageable, in which we can live as normally as possible. We currently have a very high number of infections that will be much higher in the coming period. So let's keep the focus on the next few weeks. Yesterday, and earlier, we mentioned what the predictions of RIVM show, namely that the high number of infections can really lead to the loss of many people, and thus to pressure on all kinds of sectors of our society and then to a lot of pressure on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u456	This is indeed also a scenario that needs to be taken into account. I am talking in particular about what the World Health Organisation has indicated. So it's not something I'm pulling out of my mind; it's from the World Health Organization. I can also see that there are more positive stories than negative ones. The Minister outlines a pessimistic scenario and let me assume a somewhat more optimistic scenario. I think it is wise, and I think we can agree on this, to take both scenarios into account. My question is: can the Minister indicate that if, according to the most optimistic scenario, we go to an endemic situation, we will lift all restrictions on freedom, such as a mouth mask, a corona pass and all kinds of other restrictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u457	I have just emphasised proportionality in line with previous comments. Measures that we do not need should all be omitted. I fully support that. I'm an optimistic person, but the reason to highlight the other side is that there is a real chance that in a few weeks' time we'll be in a situation where we think: wait a minute, the infections are so high now and still rise, when will this stop? We just have to face that. In the optimistic scenario and having listened widely, we dare and find it really proportional and sensible to relax extensively. We still don't open everything, but we relax extensively, knowing that there will still be a huge influx of people who have complaints, who are tested and who are positive and then sitting at home, still free from the pressure on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u458	Last question, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u459	Six questions, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u460	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u461	I'll spare it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u462	First of all, on this point. I understand that proportionality. It's a weighting: are you gonna put it in or aren't you gonna put it in? But it is also about the temporality of measures. For example, the curfew has been made legally possible, but it was then removed from the arsenal. That is trusting, because you say: we only use it in exceptional situations. If we need anything and the Cabinet convinces the Chamber that it is necessary, then there is support for that. But if anything stays in the toolbox just in case... Now I get it, because we do have a lot of infections to deal with, and that can go on for a while. So now there's no reason to say we're throwing it all out. But to leave it in when it isn't necessary isn't trusting. I should therefore also like to hope that not only the proportionality of instrumentaria is always weighed, but also the temporality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u463	Of course, of course. But then we'll have a new conversation together. And for that conversation, I think that Mr Segers and I need to share that view of what exactly is going on. The more time we have and the more experience we gain, the more we learn from it. Influenza has had few surprises for us for a long time. Yes, there is always a new type, with one new H-number and one new N-number, but otherwise it's something we've been familiar with for a long time. I am not going to say that we must first gain hundreds of years of experience, but 24 months of experience is still short in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u464	I insist that we must weigh it up every time, precisely because we have that relationship of trust with society and because it is not trustworthy as a government, if there is no basis for acceptance, says: well, if that is what I like, I can restrict your freedom at any time. We have to deal with that very closely. But again, with these numbers, I totally get it. Then I had another point, about decision-making. A motion has been adopted which says that the objectives must be widened. The Minister says: we are also looking at the SCP and the troika, and we are being more widely advised. And yet the explicit responsibility for what the cabinet does and always decides only with regard to the OMT, with one specific "white coat perspective." That perspective has indeed been very dominant for a very long time. That was understandable, because it had the greatest concern. But there are also concerns about the mental resilience of young people and about the social, mental and economic impact. There was a question from the Chamber earlier to consider these concerns explicitly. That has now been requested again in this motion. So the questions are: how are these broader objectives formulated and how are they taken into account in decision-making? How does the cabinet ensure that we explicitly relate to not only the OMT, but also the broader advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u465	I welcome this question. I totally agree with this. One of the policy topics is to see if we can adjust the objectives. That's a conversation. I had a conversation with my colleague from SZW this morning. We also need to have this discussion wider on the Council of Ministers. But these items fit right in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u466	Finally. Every time it is said: we take over the OMT advice, or we take over and we do not. If the cabinet takes a decision, will there be an explicit responsibility for what is being put on the table by this other advice, with regard to all these other aspects of life? Is that explicitly mentioned, as is always the case with the OMT?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u467	Of course, at the same time as we have incorporated those other objectives. I was just saying that we should have a good talk about that and we shouldn't do that lightly. But it is obvious and you can see that in our choices. There is an OMT opinion, but the decision is different on points from the OMT opinion, for reasons that have already been mentioned. That was also a broader weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u468	The lessor himself made the comparison with influenza, with flu. He said, "We don't really have any surprises at all." Looking back, I noticed the RIVM figures that in the winter season 2017-2018 900,000 people became ill with flu, that there were 16,000 hospitalizations in 18 weeks and that 9,500 people died more than usual. However, we did not have a crisis atmosphere at the time and there were not all kinds of special measures. My question is about longer-term reflection. When are we going to talk about a crisis and when are we going to be able to go back to normal administrative relations and the normal relations between government and society?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u469	I am grateful to Mr Van der Staaij for this question so that we can make the comparison. Those 900,000 were in a strong flu season, 2017-2018. That was a severe flu season with 900,000 cases and the number of deaths you mention. 16,000 people died. The 900,000 were, of course, there, regardless of vaccination for specific target groups, without all the measures we now have. We didn't have all kinds of restrictions, an evening lockdown or anything. Then there were 900,000 cases in 18 weeks. The same 900,000 with covid we have now in about ten days, about two weeks, with a lot of measures. There's gonna be a lot more. That's where he gets the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u470	I understand that there are all kinds of factual differences, but I am concerned about whether, with the knowledge and experience of corona now, looking back at indicators such as the number of hospitalisations, the number of sick and the excess mortality, anything should happen in the Chamber and in the social debate. Apparently that was not the case at the time, despite a considerable amount of healthcare tax. My question is whether, in this long-term vision, there is something of a reflection on when we are still talking about a crisis situation with crisis instruments and when we may have a decent task, but we can return to a normal administrative relationship and relations between government and the responsibility of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u471	Absolutely. I myself have often said in a different role that the word 'crisis' was worn out at some point. That's what you use the first period and then at least the word sluts. "crisis team" was also an unfortunate word. We have included more than 70,000 patients in hospitals alone and a multitude in all kinds of other places, with varying measures. A very large number of patients have also been on an ic. Many of them have died. That was with all sorts of measures. If we had not taken these measures, that number would have been much greater. Because they had a big impact. We need to look back. I would not go so far as to say that we have used the word "crisis" wrongly from the start. There was a crisis. Everyone remembers that footage. Meanwhile, we're in a different situation. We had just said that. Other decision-making and a different discussion on this should definitely have a place. We must stay away from the word "crisis" as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u472	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Tielen van de VVD and then to Mrs Van Esch. I suggest we suspend for dinner after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u473	I didn't think it was such a beautiful word, but I'm also a little sorry that I used the word "toolbox." I think we're talking a little bit past each other. I would very much like the Minister to give us an overview of all the individual things we are doing to reduce the spread of that virus on the one hand and to make it less ill on the other. As far as I am concerned, this overview also fits things like curfew, which, as far as I am concerned, we no longer have in the toolbox. We've done something with that. It also includes source and contact research. That's what my question is about. Does the Minister think that we are investing enough in and doing sufficient source and contact research to keep an eye on that virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u474	The answer is: yes, I think that we are doing enough at the moment. At the moment the bet is made on contact and less on source. As you know, source and contact research has been used in A-diseases and has always focused on completely different numbers. Those were numbers where you have an outbreak very locally, for example because someone has walked somewhere with open tuberculosis. Now we're dealing with over 50,000 infections a day. Meanwhile, we already have two years of experience with, depending on the age group, where these infections are contracted. Mr Van Dissel has regularly shown some of this. From those with whom there is a reasonable view of the contamination through source and contact research, we know that a large part is due to the home situation. A next big part comes from visiting a home situation. So there's a sequence. That doesn't change so much in time. So you have to ask yourself for the long term what the exact added value of the source and contact research is, especially with these kinds of numbers and especially if we already ask the GGD to make a supernormal effort to test and also to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u475	That's what I'm all about. I think contact research is important, because it all starts with compliance. For the average Dutchman, it's quite complicated to understand.We talked earlier about the quarantine rules. I hope the Minister will keep it up, because it's nice to have someone with a sense of business call you in a positive test to tell you what to do and what's important. That's different than trying to find what to do on a website.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u476	This is one of the topics to discuss with the GGD. One question I have already asked is: help me determine for now, even in this situation, how many contact investigations you can do, how much staffing is needed for that and what this means in terms of what you have to scale down somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u477	I have a brief check question. I just heard one sentence about administrative responsibility. I hope that the substantive questions that have been asked about the avian influenza virus have not already been dealt with in the short substantive response of the Prime Minister. I had asked several substantive questions about it, so this is now a check. Is there any specific answer to these questions in the block of varia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u478	I understand your question. Let me take a look at the Minister: is Mrs Van Esch in the varia block? It may sound unsympathetic, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u479	I'd like to answer the question heartily before dinner. If it was a short supplementary question whether I read my colleague's letter, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u480	I would like to come back to the specific questions I asked about what this minister is going to do. I think it is a somewhat more extensive discussion and I understand that everyone now wants to take a break from dinner. So I'd be happy to come back to it in the block of varia. I have really asked questions about not completing the stables again and whether we should not intervene again. I have asked such questions in my contribution and I have not yet had an answer to them. I'm fine with going on with it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u481	I'm gonna take a look at the minister, see if he's gonna be able to answer those questions right now or later after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u482	Unfortunately, I cannot say anything other than that the Minister of LNV is in the lead at the moment. That is why you will receive an answer from the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u483	I am concerned about this, especially as we see that we are currently in this corona crisis on important virologists in our country, indicating how violent this virus is. A very important virologist from the Erasmus MC has made it very clear that we need to act now. This virologist doesn't say that for nothing. There is also a report from the Bekedam Committee which also specifically indicates what action should be taken now. Those interventions can be done. The VWS Minister promised us a letter last week. I call once again for this letter to be sent from the VWS ministry in our direction, to indicate how this important call from, among other things, an Erasmus MC virologist is taken seriously by the VWS ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u484	I would like to avoid double letters being sent. At present, the largest number of infections occur among animals. There are indeed incidents of transfer through very close contact. Of course, we are following that very closely. There's also close contact with that virologist. It helps to ensure in this situation that the person who is primarily in the lead is the Minister of LNV also does the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u485	But the Minister of LNV doesn't intervene. That's where our concern lies. The Minister of LNV adheres to current policy and therefore does not take into account the important calls made by the one virologist, among others. No research is being carried out on all the animals that have died. It was our call last week, also to this VWS minister, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u486	Thank you. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u487	So I would like to point out that it is special that, if so many virologists say that we need to intervene now, this VWS minister continues to point out that LNV has the lead, but that LNV does not do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u488	I hear the strong call. I would like to make the question very clear to my colleague. But that's different than taking over the lead in the trajectory at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u489	I'll be very brief. I would like to comment briefly on what the Minister said in the debate on the interruption with Mr Van Haga. He asked about the A-status of corona. The Minister then indicated that it could not be changed because of international obligations, among other things. What are the obligations, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u490	I indicated that it still has an A status internationally and that, given the current situation in the Netherlands, it is wise to keep it in the same category. That was the answer to Mr Van Haga's question as to whether the A status can be removed: not at the moment and when it is, I cannot say now. I'm sorry if I was unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u491	For the sake of clarity, that is the assessment of the Dutch Government and not because there is an international obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u492	It is the assessment of the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u493	Thank you. I just indicated that I think it would be a good idea to suspend for 45 minutes. Then we'll continue with the other themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u494	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor again to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport to discuss a number of issues with us and to answer questions from Members of Parliament. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have the order of things anymore, so I'm gonna get the subject of vaccination first, because that's on top. I shall begin with a question from Mrs Paulusma. This one was about vaccinating children. She asked if an additional campaign would be devoted to communication with the parents. The decision to have children aged 5 to 11 years old vaccinated is, of course, with the parents. We need very good information for a well-considered decision. Therefore, parents receive an information package from RIVM. They can also look at the website and refer to numerous other sources of information, such as videos, a poster for children, answers to many questions etc. These sources of information will be further expanded in the coming period. Mrs Paulusma also had a question about boostering 12- to 18-year-olds. This is happening in Germany and France and it is not happening in the Netherlands. The EEA has not yet made a ruling on this, while it is in itself the same vaccine as the primary vaccination with which they have had. This is just the situation. I've checked, but we don't know when the EEA will come up with an answer. However, we have asked a question to the Health Council. In France and Germany, this has also happened in similar cases. In Germany and France this led to an approval. The Health Council met yesterday about this. I expect an answer to the question next week and then come back to it. There was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. She talked about specific cases, namely a woman with mental problems who has been trying for two years to get a vaccination, but is too young. As appointed vaccination is now offered to everyone over 5 years old. This can be done in all kinds of ways, including home vaccination if necessary. Moreover, in general, if someone has previously experienced a corona infection, he or she can indicate it at the vaccination, so that it is registered. After some time, you will still be eligible for vaccination. I cannot go into the specific case because I do not know enough, but this is the situation. Then there was a question from Mr Hijink about the long-term plan in relation to a booster campaign. I have asked the Health Council to advise with higher priority on the usefulness and need of offering an additional booster shot in the coming months. Regarding the long term: last year on 4 June, the Health Council and the OMT were asked by my predecessor to advise on a medium-term vaccination strategy. It also called for attention to be paid to defining groups that should be eligible for, for example, an annual vaccination or update. In view of the current state of the pandemic, I updated this question in line with the supplementary question on the additional booster shot. For now, the campaign is running, but it's very important. We hope that the number of infections will go down at some point after a peak, but we really need to be prepared in time for the question of whether a booster is needed at some point. Mr Hijink also asked what a booster on an annual basis means for the CTB and its sustainability. As I said, the Health Council is looking into this. We are now seeing that the effectiveness of the primary vaccination series decreases over time. Based on data from abroad, this also appears to be the case for booster vaccination. As you know, at the moment in Israel, which is always ahead of us, after the boost, there is first a fall and then another rise. A new booster was then given. So that's really something to follow. With regard to the CTBs, the Cabinet has decided to set the period of validity of the primary vaccination series at 270 days. This applies from 1 February. From that moment on, a CTB, a vaccination certificate, starting from May 1st and moving in time, will apply for 270 days. What the need for new boost campaigns and their impact on the validity of the CTB in the future, I cannot yet say exactly. But I can assure you that we are looking into this in the Cabinet. Mr Segers asked about the basis of the vaccination policy for young people, namely vaccination, not a booster, either a booster or a test. The Health Council issued an additional opinion on boost vaccinations for people between 18 and 60 years of age on 25 November. The discussion also indicated that this boost is now beginning to lead to a significant improvement in protection, both against infection and against the risk of serious disease. But it was also stated that on the basis of data from abroad, it was clear, as has already been mentioned, that this effect is slowly decreasing over time. The longer time goes on, the more we know about it, first of all from abroad. So a boost is now made available to all people aged 18 and over. I have just spoken about the 12- to 17-year-olds. So much for the questions about vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u496	There is a question from Mr Kuzu van DENK. Then Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. Mr Kuzu's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u497	That's what I kept that question for, Mr. Chairman. The Minister spoke about European harmonization on 1 February. The recovery certificate shall be subject to a period of 180 days and a vaccination certificate shall be subject to a period of 270 days. Now I understand that agreements are being made at European level, which is not easy with 27 Member States. However, I would draw attention to two recent studies, one of the US CDC and one of the British studies, which indicate that an infection that has been through protects at least as well as a vaccine. Wouldn't it make more sense to keep 270 days as a time limit for an infection?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u498	I don't know the article in question. I'd love to read it, but I can't do that right now. First of all, I would like to say that it is indeed a question of European harmonisation. The question is whether vaccination and infection should not be subject to the same deadline. What is going on through this and what was also the basis for the decision in Europe to maintain these two different deadlines is that an infection and the level of defense are highly dependent on the viral load that they have had. There are people with a very mild infection... we know the images of people who say, "I'm tested positive, but I don't suffer from anything." There are also people who are experiencing a serious infection. Within these two categories there are people with a totally different degree of built-up defense. This touches a little on the discussion we had last time: can you use serology, the antibodies in the blood? On the basis of this discussion, Europe has chosen this shorter time, which is 180 days after an infection, as a safe margin. If the literature you refer to, which I will be happy to read, ultimately shows that there is no basis for keeping up with those two different deadlines, then we need to review it. But that must be a conversation within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u499	Thank you to the Minister for his answer to my question about the lady who is attached to the house. She's 51 years old, but no one wants to vaccinate her. I'm assuming we'll talk about the corona pass in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u500	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u501	I would have asked two more questions relating to vaccination. That is first of all the question whether people can get the booster if they have been sick and probably had corona at the very beginning of 2020, but could not yet be tested. I notice that I am getting e-mails about this, which is unclear. The second question I had about vaccinations was why people have to wait three months, while in other countries it is shorter, which means they now potentially have to quarantine for a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u502	With regard to the first question, I do not recognize this. So we really should check that specifically at the GDD. People who have had an infection a long time ago but have not been tested are basically eligible for full vaccination and a boost. Many of them will have just had that. Then it's about the infection that went through. There too there is a time limit, as I had already indicated. The most optimal protection when it comes to quarantine rules applies when people have experienced an infection with the variant that is now the most widespread: the omikron variant. This also applies to the fact that, with the delay, we will eventually come of our own accord. So there's a difference in term? Yeah, there is. You're using a different term, but since it's moving, we're going to be in the period in which the omikron is dominant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u503	I'll take a look at Mrs. Van den Berg. No? Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga for his final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u504	Perhaps as a supplement to Mrs van den Berg: if there are any doubts, I am very much prepared to put the question where one can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u505	Still, let's talk about the recovery certificate. We are now going to harmonise this because the EU is asking us to. I'm sure they've looked at that, but we've been up to six months. Then we filed a motion and it was extended to one year. I think that was even my own motion. But there must have been some scientific basis underneath that, right? We didn't just do that, did we? It's almost impossible to get anything done in this house. I assume that the previous VWS Minister has examined this in detail and asked RIVM to do so, and that this was indeed justified at that time. How can we do this? Can we not say to the EU: we have already looked into it, we have gone to one year, you are harmonising with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u506	Thank you for this question, because it offers the opportunity to clarify things. The original thought was that, at the time someone has experienced the infection or has been vaccinated, there would have been a "hopeful thought" of long-term immunity and a high degree of protection. In the meantime, we know that, once again with the changing variants, this is unfortunately not the case. Both after an infection and after vaccination, immunity decreases over time and the chances of people getting re-infected and becoming seriously ill are increasing again. So yes, it was initially extended here in the Netherlands and put on 365 days. We now choose to go back to 180 days for reasons such as those in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u507	The Minister continues his speech. You're through your questions, Mr. Van Haga, but you'll still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u508	Then I come to the subject of care, staff and medicines. I shall begin with Mrs Paulusma and Mrs Van den Berg's question on reserve hospitals and the provision of less intensive covid care. First of all, let me stress that what we have been doing in the Netherlands for a long time now is strongly focused on a regional approach. You could say quietly that there is one communicative regional hospital per region. I charge it for a while, but those are really the agreements within a region about how to distribute covid care. I know that I have been in this role for a long time too, and I think that it is very important to look at the waiting list, the pressure on emergency aid, the loss of staff and many other factors. The same is happening between regions and this is, of course, happening again through the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spreading. First of all, there is a regional pool, while patients are being caught within the walls of the emergency room and the existing hospitals. If you want to achieve further concentration in a region by either an existing hospital or by designating an empty facility as extra, it has a major impact on staff and available facilities. We must remember once again in the Dutch situation that the covid patients who come to the hospital today are really different covid patients than we had at the beginning of this pandemic. You know that a great deal has been put into providing care at home, sometimes with oxygen, sometimes with numerous medications, sometimes with continuous monitoring, etc. And that's not about little, it's about a lot. In the last period, in December, there were about as many covid patients at home with only oxygen as there were clinically on a hospital bed. In other words, I would like to say that selection in hospitals is about seriously ill patients and not about the less intensive covid care. I am not saying that it cannot be done, and I would add that this is already happening in part within the regions, but if you concentrate then that really requires expertise. This requires teams with expertise and not a volunteer and a Red Cross employee. It really requires teams with expertise and it therefore requires all the facilities that go with it, including diagnostics such as a CT scan, etc. So what I really want to say is: in all regions, there is an explicit thought that "can we do this even better by concentrating if necessary?'. This applies to clinic and partly to ic. But that will only help if it de facto increases capacity. Otherwise, the impact is enormous on all those other patients who are known in such a hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u509	We've been talking about this as a room for months. I myself tabled a motion on 1 December and at the end of December I completed it further with Mrs Paulusma or at that time with Mr Paternotte. We also hear from several doctors that it can even be done in one existing hospital, but you have to say: I will do everything in one place for that region, because then you only have to make one large department completely covidproof, so to speak. Then of course you have, I say, all the other equipment like a scan and other things at hand. But we've been talking about this for a while now and I'm almost concluding that there's... Well, network care is different than concentrating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u510	I do not dispute that either, and certainly not that it is also mentioned by professionals. It is particularly relevant in the situation where the pressure on care is high. Now the average number of patients with covid in many regions per hospital is very limited. You can put them in part of a clinical ward, so to speak, and it's not more than that. But in the situation we had before, the numbers were so large that for many regions the capacity required was equal to one to two fully medium-sized hospitals. One to two full medium-sized hospitals! If you do that and you do that in an existing facility, that means what for all the other care you provide in those one to two hospitals at that time. And if you're moving it to other hospitals that patients need help as well, then you also need to move the professionals. And that only helps if it de facto increases capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u511	In addition to what Mr Van den Berg just said, we have been talking about this for a while. I'm not saying this because I want to complicate the exercise, but because there are a lot of people on a waiting list. I hear the Minister say that the pressure is not so great at the moment. But we see in all the graphs that that pressure is probably going to get there and then certainly on the regular beds. I do not know if I am speaking for Mrs Van den Berg, but I am very much looking for a solution to finally tackle that waiting list. For two years there have been people who are actually getting worse and not better. So I get that this is a struggle, including in the care field. I'm from there. I know how that goes, but somewhere we have to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u512	I'm totally sharing that. We are incredibly looking for a solution. There are plenty of things for that. Let me turn to the specific question as to whether it helps to set up one or two concentrated covid hospitals per region. In the current setting, this can only help if it de facto provides more capacity and it does not so far. Hospitals make their own distribution. That brings me to the answers I have already given. They themselves do the distribution according to a number of factors, which I mentioned. But to concentrate in one hospital in the region I'm not going to mention hospital names per region "these are the one to two hospitals where you do all the covid and nothing else" has a huge impact and doesn't lead to more capacity. If hospitals come up with a proposal, with their own idea, and they can man up, that is a fantastic solution in that acute care region, but so far I have not heard any region that has found a solution to it, while many regions have tried to do so. Then I come to a question by Mr Mulder about the scaling down of ic capacity in the light of the corona developments. The current number of patients on the ic requires a capacity of 1,050 ic-beds. In addition, there is sufficient capacity for the care of covid patients, for the regular care and for the spare beds that one always needs. That's what's happening right now. Recently we had 1,150. We had 1,250 beds. When ic's are able to provide regular care, especially the critically planned care, and thus free up more ic's capacity, they can use the same staff in another place, for example on the ok. There was a question about postoperative or postanesthesia care units, the so-called pacus. It's about the use of the same staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u513	Last question from Mr Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u514	Where's the Dr. Kuipers who wanted to scale up and invest in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u515	These are two different points. One. Do we need at least more capacity for the future period? Yeah, if there's any new peaks, we're gonna need them. In your question you refer to the recent scaling-off from the National Network Acute Care, all cooperating hospitals. At least that's how I interpreted him. They sat on a capacity of 1,250 ic-beds some time ago, went to 1,150 and are now at 1,050. It's the capacity they're indicating they need right now. So they're gonna put the staff in for something else. If it should go up again, it can return to 1,200 beds and, if necessary, higher within three days. But for the moment, they don't need that capacity. You can see that by the numbers, by the capacity utilisation rate. If you add those three categories together, regular care, covid care and what's nicely called the BOSS beds, that last bed for the acute patient..............................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u516	You will continue your speech. I think we're at the CTB now. There were a few more questions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u517	I have one question left, but I'm doing my best. Mrs Van den Berg asked about the merging of routes in the neighbourhood care following a report on a short-term scenario related to the omikron variant. The recommendations in the report are largely focused on the situation with great stress in care at a stage identified as phase 3. They do not necessarily fit in with the regular organisation of the care. Merging routes in the district care is an emergency measure in that case. It is clearly something that is in the palette of the acute care regions and which at that time is coordinated from both ROAZ and GGD's. Mrs. Kuik had a question about code black and long-term care. She asked, "How do we maintain care?" In the regions, the ROAZ is currently working together and agreements are being made to assist each other, precisely to ensure that care can continue in a care establishment. In doing so, the sector of nursing and nursing homes has drawn up a plan which serves as a handle when the pressure in this care is high. This should facilitate healthcare organisations and healthcare workers in those regions. These include the involvement of employees and volunteers and carers, for example. They can also call on staff from the Red Cross and the National Care Reserve. Mrs Kuik also had a question about protecting the vulnerable. It was related to mouth caps, ventilation and the availability of self-tests. The best protection we can offer vulnerable groups is vaccination. Therefore, they have been given priority during vaccination periods and we are also trying in many different ways to optimally regulate access to vaccination, including boosters. In addition, there is the use of risk mitigation measures such as distance, foot-nose masks and hygiene measures. That also helps, of course. It's been repeated a lot. In various opinions, including the latter, the OMT has explicitly paid attention to people with vulnerable health, with the advice to be extra careful, to avoid crowded places and so on. Finally, certain vulnerable groups are eligible for additional support............................................................................................................................................................................................ This applies to vulnerable people in home isolation and their caregivers and also to pgb-funded caregivers. Then there will be a question from a number of different MPs, including Mr Hijink and Mrs Kuik. It's about caregivers who got covid early in the pandemic and still have complaints about it, so long covid. First of all, let me say that it has a huge impact that these are the people who have been working so hard at a time when we did not know enough about the virus, where the situation was that there were insufficient protective equipment in all kinds of places, etc. Mrs Simons has rightly made a point about it: long covid is a long-term picture that we still have a lot to learn about. That means that for this particular group I can see very well what is possible to keep them for care. That is why my colleague, the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport, is discussing this issue with this group of long-term covid patients and also with the UWV and the SZW and Finance Ministers. The aim is to outline in the next co-vid letter what steps we want to take in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u518	I'm glad that conversation is going to take place. I think it is important that we can agree on the outcome for this group of caregivers. For example, the FNV mentioned the number of 500. However, I believe that at least now the signal can be given to this group that it is not intended to lose a large part of their income and jobs. So if that conversation is started, I hope that this is also the purpose of that conversation. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u519	I cannot agree to this until the conversation has taken place, but I think that, just because of the introduction I am giving, I can show that I do have a great deal of sympathy for this situation and that it must also translate into certain outcomes. But I'm not going to make any promises about this right now. My colleague needs to have that conversation. Let that happen first. Mrs Simons had another supplementary question on long covid. For that, I can refer to the reply just now. I can also say that the association Nurses & Verzorgenden The Netherlands and the Branch Organisations Zorg are also working on the elaboration of previous plans. This also provided EUR 10 million for recovery and control as a result of an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u520	I was just chewing on Minister Kuipers' response to an interruption by Mr Hijink. He says, "That's the Minister of Social Affairs." Well, I don't entirely agree with that. Because as a good employer, you are responsible for your people. That's what care workers really belong to. For them, there's a tight deadline, otherwise they're just gonna be in a WIA trajectory. And once you're in there, you don't get out easy. I therefore hope that it will be realized that there is a degree of urgency behind this. Almost all the parties here in this house have drawn attention to this, both for the WIA and for a compensation fund. So there is a degree of urgency behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u521	A. I understand the urgency. B. It concerns the Minister for Long-Term Care, the direct colleague within the Ministry of VWS. Then there was a question from Mrs Den Haan about people who are not protected by the vaccine because of a medical situation and the alternative means. To begin with, the number of people involved is not exactly clear. But it could be a little more than half a million people. So that's a big group. Antibody treatments are currently available that can be used through their treatment. They are made available to hospitals by RIVM. That's one. In addition, there are also other developments in the same antibody angle. There is also an explicit mention of this in order to see whether we can use it. For now, this is the possibility. Mrs. Den Haan also asked how we deal with catching up. Is there any idea how long people will have to wait for them to be helped? You also heard the Dutch Healthcare Authority say something about it this morning: at the moment there is room in hospitals to catch up on delayed operations. The Dutch Healthcare Authority also monitors this explicitly, by region and, if necessary, by centre. It monitors and gives us a visual. This is also a subject of discussion which I have with the Dutch Healthcare Authority. We have weekly contact with all the concerns, as my predecessors did. This also comes along in that. The agreement is that caregivers actively inform patients who are waiting for delayed treatment about the waiting period and the possibility of care mediation through the health insurance provider. There was a question from Mrs Van der Plas about recording with or by corona. She asked if I could indicate how many fewer ICU admissions and hospitalizations had been due to the heavy lockdown in December if that distinction had been made at the time. I can't rule on the distinction between being admitted to the hospital with or by corona in December. As you said yourself, the NICE Foundation has announced that they will start registering it. But we didn't have any December data. I can't get that one out of the water. Mrs Simons asked a question about communication and long covid, including in children. The answer is that there needs to be more insight through research by RIVM and ZonMw. The first results are expected this spring. I had a comment myself, but I tried to read my own handwriting. On one of the subjects, long covid, you also saw a fair remark about recovery and permanent complaints in the large number of patients who have been on ic for a long time. That too is something you can take with you in this category. That's a considerable group. It is often a question of really long-term and invalid complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u522	Mrs Simons from BET1. You look at Mrs Simons for so long that it's almost entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u523	He asked for it. The Minister asked for it. I am assuming that this is a follow-up question that the Minister has actually already said something about the tone that omikron is mild with the answer he has just given. Well, as I said in my speech, it is always a relative concept, but I can also hear the Minister express some concerns about what we can expect. I have to wait until March for that study to be carried out on the state of affairs with regard to omikron, but I dare to ask whether, according to the Minister's expectation, this is now part of the public campaign or will be part of it at that time. After all, we have communicated very much about the importance of vaccinations and we keep the schools open. Well, well, I don't have to explain the measures to the Minister. How are we going to focus on spreading knowledge about long covid?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u524	Omikron, and in a broader sense, corona, is not a flu. I've repeated it many times. Yesterday during the press conference we deliberately paid attention to trying to stay away from the picture that it is nothing more than a flu, a mild cold, a snot nose, etc. No, there's a category of people who get seriously ill with that. And if there is a difference with earlier, then the very first and most important difference is the fact that in the meantime many people have built up some form of immunity, either by vaccination and a boost or because they've been through it. That is the very first major difference. On top of that, we know that the omicron variant spreads much faster and that it may be less sickening. But if we went back in time, and we were the first variant in the Netherlands to have had the omikron variant in March 2020, we would have seen the same images with an even faster virus spreading, also under the measures we had then. So I fully agree with you that we need to emphasise that. So you should also stress that some people are getting seriously ill and that some of them have long-term complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u525	This brings me back to a dilemma that we discussed during a previous debate. This is about the link that I do not want to make any sense between this seriousness and keeping the schools open, and now even relaxing the quarantine rules there. This concerns not only children who suffer from mild complaints, but also teachers and other staff in such a school. So, as I said in my speech during the previous debate, these are opportunities for long covid, even though these people may not end up in the hospital in the best scenario and therefore will not end up in the ic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u526	In essence, Mrs Simons outlines the dilemma that exists. That dilemma is that the infection can make you sick, but that the measures that we are forced to take at times in time can also make you sick. I have already referred, for example, to the data on complaints of loneliness among young people. Two out of three young people report complaints of loneliness. There is also the fact that young people receive long-term home education, at a stage where contact and also direct live education, i.e. contact with peers, is incredibly important. That's something you can't replace with a screen and what's really necessary. Of that you might say: we don't do that once a month, or two months, or three months not. But very long-term does not have really big impact and can have lasting impact on a generation. So you have a dilemma where you can hardly say what weighs the hardest. But in doing so, in close consultation with many parties, including the education sector, we have really chosen to move on to the re-opening of education, with all the precautions there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u527	Thank you to the Minister for sharing this dilemma. This also gives us a little more insight into the considerations and the decisions that follow. We could discuss whether it is easier to cure generations of the blues that are part of the measures, with which I certainly do not want them...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u528	Wants to undo it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u529	... wants to trivialize. Thank you, Mrs Kuik, and thank you, Mr President, for trying to help me in this. Or is it perhaps easier to accept future generations suffering from the consequences of lung covid, about which we now know so little? I said 'we could have that discussion', but that would be an endless discussion, and the cabinet has made the consideration as it has. This means that at the moment I feel the need to ask whether this cabinet will, in future, dare and wish to take responsibility for a generation that is chronically ill, if faced with it. What are we going to do in the future for the people we do not need to help at that time with all the somatic and psychosomatic consequences of the pandemic in which we are sitting, but with very concrete consequences that are going to require a lot of our concern and therefore of our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u530	Fortunately, we live in a society in which our care is widely accessible, at least that is what we strive for, and is based on solidarity and therefore also on the treatment of people with chronic diseases, whether mental health care or somatic health care. That is also the answer to your question: yes, of course, and we must continue to do so. You refer to the possibility that this will be prolonged in people with post-effects of an infection. That is possible; we do not know enough about that at the moment. I'm just referring to research, and there will be many more studies in the future. We can assume that. The same applies to the long-term impact on mental health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u531	Would you mind if I asked the Minister the following question? 'Cause I brought up the care myself, and that's what his answer is based on. They are also people who, like the people who are now sitting at home with covid, are unable and unable to go to school for other reasons. It will disturb society enormously, but we also see that we are dealing with policies that are not necessarily jumping to... Let me put it another way: we are going to cut back on youth care, even though others will call it different. And we are going to intervene in a lot of areas that I already suspect we will have to make a great deal of claim to, thanks precisely to long covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u532	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u533	My question is... no, let me ask another question. I wanted to ask the Minister if he would take that into account, but I am assuming that for the sake of convenience. Otherwise, it would be almost insulting. Are those surgeries getting away with it? Yeah, they weigh in. But does that also mean that, for example, as a care worker confronted with long covid, I can assume that I will not be the child of the account in my security of existence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u534	I come back to the answer that has just been given, and I refer to the discussion that the Minister for Long-Term Care will have shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u535	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u536	Then there was a question from Mrs Van den Berg about self-sufficiency in the Netherlands with regard to medical supplies. We are very busy planning for production here or closer to home to become less dependent on foreign suppliers. This self-sufficiency is not an end in itself. In many cases, the Netherlands is a small player. You were informed in November about the state of play on the policy agenda for strengthening security of supply. As indicated above, we are continuing to do so. So much for these questions. Then there were a number of other questions. There was a question from Mrs Tielen about the willingness to look at quarantine rules in student homes. I also know from my own children that sometimes sixteen people are in close contact in student homes. By the way, after all the stories I have heard, I have very much appreciated the way in which they have been filled in for a very long time now. Really compliments. Of course there will be exceptions, but I hear it very broad. Roommates or other close contacts of an infected person............................................................................................................................................................ This excludes an important proportion of adults. A boost is relevant to those who have previously had vaccination. Meanwhile, over 70% of the group 18-plussers have had the boost. So that's very broad. In the 60-year-old group, the percentage is even higher, at just over 89%. This means that a large proportion of adults are already excluded. So the first advice for students is: get that boost. It can be done in most places now. The advice for if you haven't been vaccinated yet is: get informed and consider vaccination. We continue to study the quarantine rules closely, but for the moment we make no exception for students in a dormitory. Mrs. Kuik had a question about the OVV report. It's not ready yet. I expect the first partial report of that investigation to come soon. We will, of course, share that with the Chamber as soon as it is available. I don't know the exact date. Then there was the question of Mr Jansen who is involved on behalf of the government in the developments surrounding the European digital identity passport. That's the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitalization. Finally, there were a number of questions about CTBs and tests. In the beginning of this round, some of them have already been answered. Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Den Haan asked about the validity of the CTBs and the paper evidence. After a primary vaccination series, a CTB is valid for 270 days as of February 1st, so from May 1st last year moving up in time. After recovery, a period of 180 days applies. A paper evidence is now valid until April 1st. We're gonna ask everyone to apply for new paper evidence between February 1st and April 1st. And that's valid for 90 days. This again corresponds to European rules. I bet we'll facilitate these people when they get that paper evidence with a follow-up paper evidence if that's still relevant at the time. Mrs. Kuik asked about investing in 1G, for example in relation to the nighthoreca. 1G can have a clear impact on reduction of virus spread. 1G does, of course depending on the extent to which you use it, require a strong commitment of people and resources at a time when it is already happening in all kinds of places. Specifically in this situation, I would like, in consultation with the sector, of course with my colleague, to look very carefully at whether the use of 1G can help here in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u537	I think this is a good thing, I assume, on behalf of Mrs Westerveld as well. I see that it is labour intensive, but at the same time it can open up to a number of sectors which are now absolutely locked. I also hear from the sector that they want to see how they can facilitate it together. I think it is very good that a discussion with the sector can take place in the short term. I would like to hear the outcome as soon as possible. They have been in this situation since the evening lockdown and in fact they have been very limited for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u538	There was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. Can we assume there's no need for a CTB for community centers? Yes, you can assume that. Then there's a technical tricky one. That is Mrs van den Berg's question about travelling at European level, that is to say within Europe. Someone who received the Janssenprik and then the booster vaccination can be seen as fully vaccinated and boosted, but Germany deviates from that. That's right. Unfortunately, the Member States are free to act independently. That means that we cannot change this. It also means that I will ask the Health Council for an opinion on a possible additional booster for the people in this group who would like it. But we cannot change the rules within Germany. That's the situation for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u539	Finally, Mrs Van den Berg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u540	This is gonna scare me anyway. Seven provinces border abroad, five of them to Germany. There is also an enormous amount of frontier work. I had hoped that there would already be a high level of contact with the German Government to discuss further what the practical solutions would be for this. Maybe that's an extra shot, if that's justified. But if that's not justified, then it can't be that people don't... I've always learned what it's called: when Germany cries, we cry. Something like that. Anyway. At least we're so dependent on it. There has to be a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u541	As I have indicated, we are looking for solutions. I just can't change the rules right now. Of course a conversation with Germany goes with this. That's what's happening. But I cannot make a promise that it will change. Then there was a question from Mr Hijink and Mrs Westerveld about making self-tests available free of charge. Are we prepared to make these self-tests and mouth caps available free of charge as a public facility? The answer is: no, unfortunately we are not. We do not regard this as a public provision. Free self-tests and mouth caps are already provided for certain target groups. That was the case with the self-tests over the last two years. From mid-February to 1 May, these are another 10 million self-tests, which go to social minimums via municipalities, and one additional through a district-oriented approach. But we're not gonna do that wide for the entire population. Let's see. Those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u542	I would like to look at Mrs Tielen of the VVD and Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. Mrs. Tielen first. It's her last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u543	A forgotten question. Student associations are now covered by all kinds of hospitality rules, but they actually have a much broader function, especially for that group of young people for whom social contact and welfare are very important. I had asked the cabinet whether it would like to talk to student associations, also in connection with the letter of fire to which a number of colleagues referred. What is needed so that they can continue to fulfil that social function?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u544	I would like to have the conversation with my colleague Mr Dijkgraaf and ask him to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u545	Mr Jansen and then Mrs Van der Plas. First, Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u546	A few days ago, or at least last week, there was a message in the media that the minister had said that the corona app would not be further developed or that it was expected that it would not be further developed. First of all, that's good news. I was wondering if the Minister could promise that any data collected that is somewhat related to that app could be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u547	I'll come back to that question later in the next thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u548	In the second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u549	I don't know if my question belongs in this block or in one of the previous ones, but I'm just asking him. Last week the Prime Minister said here: there will be no vaccination obligation. Between the lines that was said. But now there's a report from the NCTV, which is also about communication and how you keep people around, the following. I quote: 'Demand the process by which the long-term perspective is developed in the coming period and, if possible, give the starting points first'; then it says in brackets: '2G, vaccination obligation'. Now I can imagine that 2G is in it, because there's a bill. But we didn't talk about vaccination at all. In fact, it is always said that there is no vaccination obligation. Well, actually, I wanted to ask why that's in there. Maybe you're not the right person to ask, but I should ask the Prime Minister. This does raise a few questions, not just me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u550	I think this is a question to answer in the second term. Perhaps it would be a good idea if Mrs Van der Plas would let us know what the report is about. Then the Prime Minister will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u551	I'm going to forward that to you. It's on national government.nl. I may have missed the answer to my other question. That could be very good. I had a question about the people who cannot be vaccinated, who have a medical indication that they cannot be vaccinated and therefore still, despite promises made by the previous minister and an amendment by Mrs Bikker, cannot get a QR code and are therefore completely excluded from society, on top of their illness or serious illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u552	Allow me to return to that point as well. I do remember the question, but I do not have the answer ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u553	That is why we always have a second term. I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term response. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Tielen van de VVD. Last time, we didn't have a lot of motions. Let's see if we can continue that with each other. Mrs. Tielen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was nice to see what kind of parliament we all are together. On the one hand, there are people who say: open it all up, because the end of the virus is near. Others say: well, I actually find it quite exciting to take such big steps. There is also a large group, including myself, which says: well, it is a very complicated consideration; I think it is very brave to go another step towards 'open', but let us remain very critical or we can and how we can continue to move forward step by step. I don't have any motions this time. That is already the first positive news of the evening for the President. However, I ask for another commitment. I may be working on it myself, but I think it would be wiser to ask the cabinet for an overview of all the interventions that have been used in recent times and are in the pipeline. So we have a feeling of what we're all not getting out of the closet and what we can get out of the closet. Then we can have a debate with each other about what we want to continue to do to get the Netherlands open again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u555	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u556	Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to comply with your request, because I'm about to file a motion. First of all, thank you for the answer. Many people need perspective and predictability. In particular, culture makers and catering entrepreneurs are waiting with regret for what will happen in three weeks' time. They'd like to prepare themselves. Next week there will be a letter from the cabinet about how we're going to handle the rest of the winter. I'm glad they want to bring the Belgian corona barometer. I am also glad to hear that next week there will be clarity about the boost for young people. Then I have one motion because now we are going to have an exciting time with Omikron. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in omicron foreign studies there is a 40% to 60% lower risk of hospitalisation and 50% lower risk of icing;]] [[Whereas, as in other countries, relaxation may lead to an increase in the number of occupied regular hospital beds or care in the home situation, but an increase in ic-beds may be lower;]] [[Whereas the real scenario is now emerging in order to temporarily concentrate this less intensive corona care so that there is more room for delayed care;]] [[Whereas the Paternotte/Van den Berg motion (25295, nr. 1675) asked the government to prepare for this scenario;]] [[calls on the government, in the very short term, to reorganise the less intensive corona care for adults in order to create space for regular care and its staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Paulusma and Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1748]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u557	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u558	Mrs Paulusma's motion raises two questions for me. One. There's a motion. Then what stands in the way, apparently, of getting that motion carried out? Two. Am I to understand that Mrs Paulusma wants to concentrate on hospitals? In fact, she refers to much more first-line and one and a half-line home care. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u559	Yeah, there's a motion. I think the Chamber has asked at several times to do something about this concentration of covid care. I am very pleased that there are already scenarios that I believe can be worked on in this way. The momentum is now, if you look at the figures that show that omikron makes less sick and that you need less intensive care for it. So we think the momentum is here now. I am certainly also talking about the whole chain approach, because the Minister indicates that the pressure is in the whole line. If we can relieve this burden and make more room for waiting list patients, that would be a very good thing for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u560	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV. Go ahead, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u561	Mr. Chairman. I have five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to increase its ic capacity in a structural manner to at least the average in European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to lift the quarantine rules for all without any complaints immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the corona access tickets and to refrain from introducing the 2G system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop conditional opening hours for public places such as catering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1749]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1750]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1751]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1752]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u562	There are four, but it actually contains just as much text as it does in the motion for a resolution of D66. So I actually only have one more motion, and I'll read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to enter into consultations with industry, such as the catering industry, hairdressers and so on, in order to resolve the huge problem of paying special deferment of tax debts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1753]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u563	It's happening so fast, I didn't get to tackle Mr. Mulder in advance. I would like to sign all motions on behalf of BVNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u564	Unseen. Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u565	See, that's kind of special. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answers. I have signed a motion with Mrs Paulusma concerning, in particular, the organisation of care. With all the lessons we've learned from corona, we're really wondering if it shouldn't be different now, especially with the omikron variant. And then the request to the Minister whether the next time in his letter he can specify the report with the short-term scenarios. The Minister calls that emergency scenarios. For example, it says in the district care: if you put those routes together, it saves 12% more patients you can serve. Then we will have a little more explanation of the reasons why the Minister does not think that is appropriate at the moment. It is good that this self-sufficiency is being worked on. Again, we only hear that institutions are buying again everywhere in China, while here in the Netherlands or in Europe they can do so at the same price. Finally, I hope that a solution will be found quickly with Germany, because I think that is a very serious problem. February 1st is next week and it can already have negative effects for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u567	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The confidence in this cabinet is low and the confidence in the corona policy is not particularly strong either. If you bear that in mind and consider that this cabinet wants to fight against disinformation, I do not think it is strong that yesterday, in the press conference itself, the Minister is throwing wrong data and wrong figures to defend the corona tickets. I think that is a very bad start to his ministry and I hope that he will not do so again. We don't need games like this. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion with Mrs van der Plas on another important point. Those are the caregivers who have become ill and are about to lose their income and work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aid workers who, sometimes partly due to insufficient protective equipment, have contracted long-term covid in the first corona wave have been at home sick for almost two years;]] [[Whereas it is unfair for them to risk losing their jobs as a result of this and to fall sharply in income;]] [[calls on the Government to meet these caregivers and to avoid loss of work and income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1754]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u569	As I have said, I am tabling the motion on behalf of Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u570	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u571	I was shocked, Mr. Chairman, because I thought I forgot my mouth cap, but I don't have to do that here. At least things get used to for me that fast. Mr. Chairman. Much has passed and we are now entering an exciting phase. How do the relaxations work out? What about care, including long-term care? I know what appointments have been made, but maybe in the next few days, code is gonna be black, because staff fails because of corona. So it remains necessary to keep the finger on the wrist. I welcome the commitments on nighthoreca and clubs and exploring the possibilities of 1G. Not because it is ideal, but at least a solution is being sought for those sectors which have been closed for so long. I don't agree when it comes to culture and per se maintaining it at 10:00 p.m. Anyway, here's what's agreed with the Security Council. I would like to say that now look at what is possible for this sector as quickly as possible. And finally, Mr. Chairman. When I asked how we are going to protect the vulnerable, they were actually referred back to themselves. They are now in a situation where we let go of everything and then it is a bit easy to say: the responsibility lies entirely with yourself. Many of these people have been taking responsibility for two years, sometimes deliberately not sending their children to school in order not to be at risk. If the answer of the cabinet is only that they themselves are responsible for this, I think that is something on the weak side. These people take a vaccine, boosters, wear masks in traffic and are already visiting almost nowhere. I hope the cabinet realizes that. The problem is not that they do not want to, but that they are afraid, precisely because they are vulnerable because of surgery, transplant or autoimmune disease. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u572	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for the answers in this new debate. I hope that the Minister with the Chamber will continue to look at solutions to continue as a society and live with corona. With measures that are as minimal as possible to protect the vulnerable. I also hope that we can continue to have that conversation open, because it contributes to good solutions, but also because it contributes to the confidence of society. That's really something we need to get back on this file, because we see that it's not going well. Mr President, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the OMT and RIVM's behavioral unit have advised several times to make self-tests and good nose masks available free of charge;]] [[Whereas the cost of self-tests and face-to-face masks for long cannot be borne by all households, but does prevent illness;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, within three weeks, scenarios for the provision of self-tests and good nose masks free of charge, which vary according to the target group and how they are distributed and include both costs and social benefits, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Segers, Mr Hijink and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1755]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u574	We are consciously pointing to the benefits that it brings if people test more often, because it not only benefits health, but also brings financial benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u575	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u576	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not tabling any new motions today, but I would like to announce that the motions that my colleagues Mr Ouwehand and Mr Wassenberg made last week will be put to the vote by us next week. The Old Hand motion asks the government to take precautions against the avian flu and the Wassenberg motion asks for all dead animals found in nature, where there is a suspicion of avian influenza or perhaps corona, which we do not know is being investigated. I really do miss the urgency of the avian flu at the VWS ministry tonight, while the Chamber passed a motion last year, which gives the VWS minister perseverance. I would like to remind the new minister of the lessons of the Q-fever crisis. At that time it was said that LNV did not impose sufficient decisive measures, which were not initially mandatory either. LNV was not sufficiently addressed by VWS that the administrative follow-up of the agreements made with LNV was not or insufficiently monitored in time and that VWS should have shown perseverance as a gatekeeper of public health, but that it had not formally at that time. I don't want to make a motion. I want to offer a present to the new Secretary of State at VWS. That is the evaluation of the Q-fever crisis at the time, which contains a lot of good and useful tips. As far as we are concerned, the new VWS minister can quickly and somewhat more critical of the new avian influenza virus and hopefully not to the likely avian influenza virus! Watching avian influenza crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u577	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. That will be delivered to box K through the messenger. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u578	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for their reply and for the fine debate. First of all, thank you for the commitment of the VWS Minister to explicitly describe that broader consideration he has already made in a letter and to relate himself in a good way to the broader advice alongside the OMT. I'm happy about that. It seems to me to be a good interpretation of the Tielen c.s. motion. As a second thank you for thinking about the longer term. Where the PVV Group says that all measures must be taken now, the Minister is right to say that we cannot, because we have a lot of infections. That seems wise to me. At the same time, we need to consider what might be next and what is proportionality and the temporality of measures. That reflection must take place. This has everything to do with trust and the relationship of trust between government and citizens. If you ask citizens to surrender freedom in exchange for public health, then you have to evaluate that relationship and the exchange that takes place every time and back it up every time. I thank the Minister for wanting to do so. I look forward to the next debate as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u579	A question from Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u580	More of a comment, I think, just in case. We're just asking everyone to stick to the rules. That's the first thing. And besides, anyone who has symptoms or is ill should just stay home. We don't make it into one big polonaise, but it is the responsibility of every human being.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u581	I think you have just tabled four motions to abolish all kinds of rules. So you don't say, "Keep to the rules." No, you say: all the rules must be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u582	Those are the rules that we set democratically with each other here. And we're sticking to all the rules. You know that very well. You're making a very bad game of it now. We are making proposals in this Chamber and we are trying to get a majority in favour of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u583	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u584	And we also say that anyone who has symptoms or is ill should stay home. So this story doesn't grace you. Yuck!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u585	Mr Mulder says: I like some of the rules, I understand them, but I want to change other rules and I propose them. Mr Mulder is being very angry right now, but I am actually trying to describe what is happening here. He says he wants to abolish some rules. That's what he's proposing; that's what we're going to vote on. I am simply saying that these proposals do not seem sensible to me, because, as the Minister says, we have torrential infections. You may have a different assessment. I'm just trying to outline what extremes there are and where I stand. My third point concerns the Minister's commitment to look at what 1G can do in high risk settings. That's especially about the nighthoreca. Now it is not the case that nightclubs have the highest priority in the Christian Union, but 1G as a means is a good means in our opinion, so I am pleased with that. We're looking forward to that investigation. Finally, Madam President. I co-signed Mr Westerveld's motion. The OMT says making free testing available would really be a good contribution. We would like to see what the scenarios are, what the advantages and disadvantages are and what the costs and benefits are. That is what we would like to see for further decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u586	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u587	Thank you. I have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that numerous scientific studies show that mouth caps do not affect the spread of corona;]] [[Whereas young people are not at very low risk of being infected with the corona virus;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the obligation to protect the face of all educational establishments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that countries such as Ireland, England, Denmark and Spain have virtually abolished or intend to abolish all the corona measures, including the corona admission certificate;]] [[Whereas the Corona Access Card excludes millions of Dutch people from social life;]] [[calls on the Government to end the use of the Corona Access Card in all forms and to destroy any data collected whatsoever related to the Corona Access Card,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1756]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1757]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u588	Mr Jansen has just shared an article with us. At first he said it was Stanford's, but that's not right. But let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u589	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u590	I sent it to a professor and asked him about the quality. He replied, I shall refrain from the rest of his analysis as follows. "I think I'm going to use it for education. Always looking for fine wrong analyses, so also useful to me, because this is so bad that the real side is still getting rough." I don't mind putting his extensive analysis on the mail. I can also explain why he thinks the document is not good, but I do not know how much time I can get from the President. I would like to ask you kindly: if you enter this Chamber, come up with sound scientific arguments so that we can have an equal debate. Do not roll your eyes now, because I am making a substantive comment in your direction. Would you do this, please? Then the level of the Chamber goes up and the debate gets better. The choices we make with each other and the control of the cabinet also improves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u591	Thank you. I'm giving you a chance to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u592	I'm so tired of this tone. It's so predictable. First of all, you repeat my words. I was talking about a Stanford investigation and this investigation. I can send you the Stanford investigation, too. Now you're bringing some anonymous, shady professor. Please, put it on the mail. I really like watching it. I would very much like to read the substantive criticism, but I cannot rely on this kind of vague insinuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u593	Thank you. Let's stop this argument now. Please exchange emails with each other. This is the second term. You asked a question and Mr Jansen replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u594	You did not ask a substantive question. Then name the points of criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u595	It's okay, Mrs. Gündoğan. It's the second term now. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld for a question to Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u596	I also looked at the paper. First of all, let me say that I appreciate that if claims are made, a paper will also be sent to us. But there's also something to be done. Mr Jansen pointed out that obesity is a factor, but his main point was that non-pharmaceutical intervention has little impact, such as a lockdown. You can indeed get that from that paper, but there are a number of other researches, for example Thompson IP, from October 2021, which say that you can't just compare international research with each other. A study by Simonsen and Viboud from August 2021 says that you cannot compare excess mortality internationally. I can go on like this for a while. I'm not interested in a wells-nothing game. But let's find the nuance with each other and not just draw one fixed conclusion from one paper. Let's look at what researchers are saying and let's keep having the substantive conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u597	First of all, thank you for this interruption, because it is a lot nicer, more pleasant and better than the previous one in terms of content. I'd really like to get into this. Of course, there is always discussion about facts in science. But what I loved about this paper is that it compares all countries and that on that basis you can see which correlations are and are not left by a lot of factors. But I also like to look at those criticisms. It's certainly not the only paper on this type of investigation. There are numerous meta-studies. I'd like to exchange information on that. I think we're getting a lot further on that than we're blaming each other all the time for the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u598	Thank you. Were you at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u599	I had one more motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u600	I will end this discussion, Mrs Gündoğan. You have a contribution to make after Mr Jansen. You will continue with your speech, Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u601	Thank you, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a follow-the-Money study last month showed that the European Commission sees the corona app as a first step in what could develop into a perfect digital wallet;]] [[noting that the European Commission also states that it intends to pursue this work with Member States in the coming months;]] [[whereas many experts warn about the digital ID and its implications for the privacy and human rights of Dutch citizens;]] [[calls on the Government not to cooperate in any way with the European Commission's plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1758]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u602	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u603	Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u604	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say a few words about just now, because I couldn't defend myself properly, but mostly I couldn't defend Professor Rosendal. I refuse to call him "a shadowy professor." He is one of the best and most prominent epidemiologists in our country. He teaches not only in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. I hope you will take back your words and start serious scientific research in future. I really think it is very important that there is respect for work from which knowledge comes, so that we, as laymen, can make good choices based on that knowledge. We rely on science. I oppose discrediting science.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u605	I give Mr Jansen the opportunity to respond, because you made a comment in his direction. I'd like to ask you to talk through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u606	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u607	Anyway, I feel like it's getting pretty personal right now. Sometimes it can help if there's a chairman sitting around to neutralize it. I give the floor to Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u608	I have a bit of that feeling too, Mr. Chairman. I'm not sure why it is. I sense a lot of anger and a lot of anger. That's not really necessary. We can just discuss the content here. The reason I said that is because you didn't mention names. That's why I said put it on the mail. That's why I referred to some anonymous shady professor. I don't mean anything at all on his only record that could possibly be involved with his person. But I just didn't know who it was. You could all be looking for things to do, but I think you could have just done a little less anger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u609	You've given a good explanation and now I'm giving again...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u610	Then you could have chosen other words. It is also very much your choice to make him as shady... I'm gonna head back to the cabinet, because it's my first job to control him. I just actually have questions. Is the feedback I just received also a serious commitment? It's about the DSA. I'll ask the Prime Minister. And then the dashboard: what signal values are we going to work with? When can we expect that? Then I don't have any motions, but I'll just wait and see when I can just answer them. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u611	Mr Jansen arrives for a while, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u612	I have one more question, Madam President. We have all sworn our allegiance to the Constitution, and that Constitution also contains Article 7, namely freedom of expression. No one needs leave to say or reveal what he or she thinks or wants. I just heard Mrs Gündoğan say in an interrupting debate that there should be a campaign against disinformation. Some opinions or facts may no longer be shared, for example on social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u613	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u614	You're unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u615	I can give the same kind of reaction as you do, namely a non-response, but I take you seriously, contrary to what you do to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u616	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u617	Mr. Chairman. I take Mr Jansen seriously anyway, and I'm not going to take him the same way... So I'm gonna do this differently. No, there's a difference. That's what I was trying to explain to you. And also in our Constitution, Professor Voermans has said this before in the technical briefing, as well, freedom of expression is not without limits. For example, you cannot deny the Holocaust, even in the Netherlands. You're not allowed to do anything wrong as a doctor. Well, Mr. Kuipers will be much better at explaining that than me and Mrs. Paulusma as a nurse. You're limited! And in this country we also know a difference between horizontal and vertical freedom of expression. This means that you can say a lot to the government, but it is also limited to each other. There are differences and nuances in that, Lord Jansen! You know, you can shake no, but that's how I learned. If you want to teach me differently, I kindly ask you to come up with documents, serious documents. Then I may be able to say to you later: I thank you for the moving insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u618	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. I'd like to make two more motions. As a mitigating circumstance, I am voting in favour of two Members who were unable to attend today's debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the omicron variant of the coronavirus is less sickening and leads to fewer hospitalisations;]] [[Whereas restrictive measures should not be applied beyond what is strictly necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a well-founded plan to phase out the corona measures within a few weeks, taking into account the epidemiological situation and leaving the management of the corona virus more to the responsibility of society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has submitted a legislative proposal to amend the corona admission permit in such a way as to allow only vaccinees and people who have recovered from COVID-19 to certain places (2G);]] [[Whereas research has shown that the positive effect of such a measure is very low;]] [[Whereas 2G constitutes a serious restriction on the freedom rights of millions of Dutch people and provides for division in society;]] [[calls on the government to submit the relevant legislative proposal (Room Document No. 35973)]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1759]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1760]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u620	So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u621	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u622	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions in the first term. I think that in the coming weeks we will have a proper discussion about the use of the corona ticket. In any case, the new minister knows the view of DENK on this matter. I already asked a number of questions last week about the difference between a recovery certificate and the vaccination certificate. I know that agreements have been made at European level on 1 February, but I think that we as the Netherlands should continue to be able to mark our position. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the validity of the corona admission ticket will be aligned with that of other European countries as from 1 February 2022;]] [[Whereas with the new amendment, a recovery certificate becomes less valid for no less than three months than a vaccination certificate (180 days compared to 270 days);]] [[Whereas recent international studies, including a US CDC study, show that an infection through provides protection for at least as long as vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to advocate, at European level, that the period of validity of the recovery certificate be aligned with the period of validity of a vaccination certificate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1761]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions. I had two left. Still, let's talk about the paper corona pass. Could the Minister see if it is possible for these people, including many older people, to send that automatically every three months? Then there's another afterburner. I didn't talk about that in my term, but it came to my mind. Homework advice has not been relaxed. We are all here in the fine circumstance that we can go to work regularly, but of course there are a lot of people at home for a long time. What is needed to ease homework advice so that people can go back to the office? And then I have one more motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an estimated half a million patients do not benefit from vaccinations due to the lack of antibodies to COVID-19;]] [[noting that preventive antibody therapies are currently developed that are effective against the current Omikron variant, but that they are not yet (widely) available to the appointed vulnerable patients;]] [[Whereas this group has been in isolation for a long time to mitigate risks, and these risks are exacerbated by the announced relaxations;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether sufficient preventive therapies for the large group of vulnerable patients have been secured for the Netherlands, so that they can be used as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1762]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u624	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u625	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u626	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona admission certificate continues to exist in the hospitality sector;]] [[Whereas the number of external contaminations is limited;]] [[Whereas the corona admission certificate excludes millions of people from hospitality visits, because many have not been boosted;]] [[requests the Cabinet to exempt terraces from showing a corona pass if motions to abolish the corona pass are completely rejected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fairs fall into the category "events';]] [[noting that fairs are often small-scale;]] [[Whereas a covered shopping centre and (busy) weekly markets do not have a corona admission permit;]] [[Whereas an outdoor fair is conducted with a low risk of contamination;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to exempt fairs in the outdoors from the corona ticket,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1763]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1764]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u627	Then I'll come back on the net, on the NCTV. Perhaps you have already figured it out, but this is a report of 21 January, entitled 'Publication on the social image and the implementation test of measures'. It was an annex to the letter of inquiry on the 139th opinion of the OMT. It's on page 12. There's the word "vaccination obligation." Then I had one very short question. We are talking about hygiene measures and making sure that the infections don't go around. It may be a very silly question, but I also see here in the Chamber that everyone puts those mouth caps on the table. I was actually wondering, given the example function, if that's healthy. The Prime Minister is taking it away very quickly. I just noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u628	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u629	I thought we had a former doctor as minister. That's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u630	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. You're abandoning your second term, Ms. Simons? Okay. That's the way it's gonna be. It's a possibility, a can-determine. Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u631	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Good. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas COVID-19 has been placed in Group A of obliged diseases since January 2020;]] [[Whereas omikron has made the infection fatality rate (IFR) very low;]] [[calls on the Government to remove COVID-19 as a compulsory disease in Group A,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a limited opening time until 10 p.m. for the catering and culture sectors is hardly workable;]] [[Whereas there is no numerical basis for increasing the pressure on care in the event of extended opening hours;]] [[calls on the government to extend the opening hours for the catering and culture sectors to 24.00 hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas catering and culture are barely viable at 1.5 metres;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the one-and-a-half-metre measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1765]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1766]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1767]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u632	Then I had one motion on the oral cap duty during exams, but I understand now that that is not a duty at all, so I suppose I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u633	The Prime Minister says, provided there's a foot and a half away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u634	Exactly. This is kind of a commitment. Then let me make a call to students who are probably watching. If this is mandatory by the various universities and colleges, they can say: Prime Minister Rutte has said that we do not have to, if we are only 1.5 metres away. Is that how I explain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u635	The Prime Minister's nodding. Thank you very much, before we get any more creative statements under Article 8.6e. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves. A single question has been asked, and there will be an appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u636	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his second term. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u637	I'll see who's already in the room. The piece Mrs Van der Plas is talking about is a social image and execution test. It provides input from a variety of perspectives for the broad weighting of all kinds of measures. This input comes from the behavioral unit RIVM, the police and the National Core Team Crisis Communication. They all provide input from their own expertise. This then involves the cabinet in the deliberations, before reaching a decision. In this case, it concerns the input of the NKC, which, from an explanatory point of view, indicates that it is important that the cabinet quickly provides insight into the process in the long term. In doing so, it can help the NKC to start with the principles that are important. Examples of this are the following. Does or does the cabinet not consider the use of 2G for the longer term? Does the cabinet consider or not any kind of vaccination obligation? There could have been other examples of starting points, such as the role of the restrictive measures or indicators of risk levels. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u638	But the real question is of course: is it an option in the Netherlands to introduce a vaccination obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u639	Not for us, no. There are no plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u640	So there will be no vaccination obligation in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u641	There are no plans and no intentions at all, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u642	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u643	That's vague again. There are no intentions and no plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u644	That's as far as you can go. There's no 100% guarantee. But there is no one in the cabinet, including Kuipers and myself, who intends to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u645	I shall give the floor to Mrs Westerveld for a moment. She wanted to mention something about a motion before I forget her. Then I will give the floor to the Prime Minister. This is just for our paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u646	That's about the motion in part No. 1755 I filed. That's the only motion I filed. I submitted it with Mr Hijink and Mr Segers. Could Mrs. Kuik be under there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u647	Yeah, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u648	Mrs Tielen has asked for an overview of all the interventions that have been made and which may be available in the future. We will give an overview in the next stand-of-business letter on corona. So that comes in the next stand-of-business letter. Unfortunately, this is not the time to relax the homework advice. The current measures basically last until 9 March. On February 15th, there will be a review. Then we'll look at the situation again. We can't anticipate that. As has already been said, today's measures seek maximum space. Moreover, I understand that this homework advice is intense for a lot of people, that people are a bit done with it and that they sometimes want to go to the office a little more often. I just can't do that right now. But of course it will be on the screen when there is room again. Mrs Gündoğan asked about the question of the revision of the code of practice disinformation. The previous cabinet has shared a position on the current code on combating digital interference in the 2021 Lower House elections. The then Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations acknowledged in the letter the shortcomings of the current Code. We are therefore very interested in the renewal of the code. Transparency and reporting standards and compliance with the code should be improved, among other things. The Cabinet also welcomed the Commission's guidelines to strengthen the Code. The new code is expected at the end of March. By means of a BNC sheet we will inform you about the cabinet position. By the way, we do not recognize, I have once again asked for the USA to take stricter action against disinformation from European governments, but that may also be a taste issue. We had the image that the EU is at the forefront of legislation and regulation. Anyway, we're gonna see that. Then there's the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 1752. I reject this motion with reference to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1753. The cabinet is constantly talking to sectors about problems with taxes and debts. We are also picking up all kinds of points of view and bottlenecks in that conversation. If I may interpret it in such a way that we continue to discuss these issues, then I can leave the motion for a resolution to the House. But if there is a demand here for a guaranteed solution or a complete solution, I cannot do so. However, if I may interpret the motion in such a way that we continue with these talks and that this is a motion to give us the wind in our backs, then the judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u649	But aren't we assuming that the cabinet always engages in talks to find a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u650	Yes, but I can't guarantee now that that solution will come. We just don't know. A maximum effort obligation is possible. That's what Micky Adriaans is doing. Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u651	Judgment Chamber for the motion in part No. 1753.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u652	The motion in part No. 1756: advise against referring to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 1759. We cannot say that we are reducing the measures within a few weeks. We really need to see what these easings are doing. With regard to a roadmap, the Court will soon receive the approach for this winter, so because it is really written here for too short a time with some sort of target range, I must advise against the motion. That's the motion in part No. 1759. Then the motion to part No. 1763, on exempting terraces from a CTB. This is yet another extension of what we are doing. We really shouldn't. We're already going beyond the OMT recommendation, so I'd advise against the motion in part No. 1763. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1764, with the same argument. Also the motion in part No. 1764: dissuade. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1766. It's being dissuaded. And that also applies to the motion in part No. 1767. It is not recommended with the same argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u653	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his appreciation and for answering the single question. We clean up and then I give the floor to the Minister, hoping that the speed contained in it will also be taken over. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, my response to a number of questions. The first was not directly a question, but it was a remark made by Mrs Kuik about the vulnerable, for example people with a limited immune system who have long lived in isolation. I am well aware of the situation they have been in for a long time, and I realise that Corona has a major impact on this group. I am therefore pleased that this group has been able to get a third shot from October. I also know that a number of people in this category, for example, have kept their children at home as a precaution. Fortunately, these children from 5 years can now also be vaccinated. I will continue to be vigilant about the burden on this group and how these people can be optimally protected. Then there was a question from Mrs van der Plas about putting the mask on the table. Any longer use of a mouth cap... you need to replace mouth caps. All use with the hands on the inside of the mouth cap or, as we often do, the mouth cap in the coat pocket, in the pocket or in the bag and then out again, is not good. You gotta get rid of it somewhere, don't you? I also saw the Prime Minister take it off the table very quickly and put it in the coat pocket. If the Prime Minister and I leave it on the table, that's a good way to avoid things. Then an answer to Mr Jansen's question as to whether the information on the corona app is being deleted. I assume that means the CoronaCheck app. The data in that app are only available on the device on which the app was downloaded. If that app is deleted, that data will also be deleted. The user can do it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u655	Perhaps this is too technical a question, but I was under the assumption that a blacklist of codes is also kept at the time they expire, and that this is technically regulated because it is organized on a decentralised basis. Could the Minister perhaps send a letter on this subject, in which he writes to what extent information has been collected and on what points that has been done? So my question is: if this app is phased out, will all possible data be deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u656	The data is in the app. If a user deletes the app, the data is also missing. The data is retrieved from source files at RIVM and the GGD. Those source files are simply subject to legal retention periods for medical data.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u657	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u658	I do not know whether I have answered Mr Jansen's technical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u659	Maybe I'd like to ask for a letter anyway. At some point that recovery certificate was renewed and therefore expired codes were valid and so on. Perhaps you could send a letter about how this is technically organized and exactly where the data is. You can indeed log in to the RIVM, for example. There's all the data; the RIVM has that data. Would those data be deleted when this technology is no longer used?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u660	As indicated, therefore, the retention periods for medical data still apply, even if you do not use the app. Of course, we can also record this in writing, but that can be a rather simple letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u661	I can say to Mr Jansen: if you want to go a little deeper, you can still ask written questions. That's always a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u662	Then there was a question from Mrs Gündoğan about the expected new steering indicators for the dashboard. That's gonna be part of the long-term letter coming next week. Then there was a question from Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Segers on the state of play regarding the exception for people who cannot be vaccinated or tested for medical reasons. I work with the GGD and the GGD GHOR on a window to help those people, so that they too can get a corona pass. It is expected that the first people will be able to be helped in the course of February. The same applies to people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u663	I have a question about this. Mrs van der Plas and I, as well as others, have already spoken because, indeed, it was often people who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons and cannot be tested. That's when a pilot started. We got reports from several quarters that it didn't go quite well, that it didn't work out. If we are going to work with corona tickets again, then a quick solution for this group is very urgent. That's why I sound a little impatient in the direction of this minister. I would like to say to him: it is not the first time we have raised it. In fact, I think we've been working on it for three-quarters of a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u664	I hear the urgency and I understand it very well. I would therefore like to ask that this be dealt with as far as possible as a matter of priority. Then we'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 1748 we leave to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1749: dissuade. A structural scaling up of the ic according to plan is not wise. This requires a great deal of staffing and structural scaling up of capacity is not necessary. The motion in part No. 1750 is also not recommended. The motion in part No. 1751 on the abolition of CTBs and the withdrawal of 2G: dissuade. The motion in part No. 1754 is about caregivers who have become ill and have contracted lung covid. I'm asking the petitioners to hold the motion. As indicated, the Minister for Long-Term Care will hold these talks in the short term. The proposal is to come back to that. We understand the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u665	I would just like to look at Mr Hijink if he is willing to make the motion in part No. 1754.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u666	We prefer to put the motion to the vote because we want these talks to lead to a certain outcome. That outcome is expressed in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u667	Okay. And then the appreciation becomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u668	Then I'll leave the motion to the Chamber's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u669	That's surprising, but it's possible. All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u670	Then the motion to part No. 1755 on the provision of self-tests and mouth caps free of charge. We do not recommend this motion, referring to the discussion that has taken place. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1757: abolishing the CTBs and destroying the data. Dissuade. Also the motions on the documents Nos. 1758 and 1759 we advise against. Then the motion to part No. 1761 on the validity of the recovery order. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 1762 focuses on adequate preventive therapies. If I may read that motion as "sufficient bet means maximum wager, but no guarantee," then I shall leave the motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u671	Let me look at Mrs Den Haan to see if she can agree with this explanation. Fine, then the motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u672	The motion in part No. 1765 on the deletion of COVID-19 as obliged disease in Group A: advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u673	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u674	When the Minister answered the questions, I did not receive a response to my question whether the Minister would like to explain in a subsequent letter why the proposals made in the short-term scenarios for acute care, such as otherwise organising community care, would not be appropriate. I would like a little more clarification on that. I had asked the Minister to return to that in another letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u675	We can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u676	Thank you. That concludes this debate. No, not until I give Mr Jansen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u677	May I compliment the Minister? I think he is particularly pleased to hear, listen and answer this debate. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u678	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u679	I may have missed it, but I do not think the Minister has answered my question about the paper corona admission certificate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u680	The answer to the question about these paper tickets and the request for them to be sent afterwards is: we bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u681	That concludes this debate. I would also like to say to the Chamber that I thought this was a very nice debate. There were great differences of opinion, but the debate was nevertheless dignified and on the basis of an exchange of arguments. Well, that's a good thing to say. Thank you for that, and keep it up!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-26-tweedekamer-6.u682	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. Two motions are also filed on behalf of the Animal Party. Then you can take that into account. There has also been an appreciation of the cabinet before and both motions have been dissuaded, I would like to inform you. Those were my household announcements. I thank the rulers. I thank the Members of Parliament. I thank the messengers and the chamberkeeper for all the good services, and I also thank the viewers at home. I'm closing the meeting.
