ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the Amendment of Book 6 of the Civil Code to reduce the legal payment period to 30 days (35769). I would like to welcome my fellow chamber members and, of course, Mrs Adriaansens, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Rahimi on behalf of the VVD. This is another special moment because you are going to make your maiden speech, which means that the other Members of Parliament are very happy to listen to you and they are not allowed to interrupt you. So good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was June 28, 1987. I was playing 8 years and outdoors, like every child and as it should be. At that time a number of fighter planes, fighter jets from Saddam Hussein passed over my hometown of Sardasht. Everyone was scared and everyone went to the basements, of course. Just... nothing happened. No explosions and no bombs, as usual, in the war that's been raging for seven years. However, fifteen minutes later, very, very sneaky, I can tell you, they came back. First they lured everyone out, and then something happened. There was a bombing back then. But the bombs sounded different. The bombs sounded dull. Fortunately, my father was Ali Rahimi anesthesiologist and employed in the hospital. He actually couldn't believe it at first, but he smelled the smell of garlic. To him, that meant one thing: that this was a chemical attack on our city. That was the first after World War I. He raced home. All I remember is getting a wet towel over me from my mother Ziba and getting pushed in a car. No one really knew what to do in the event of a chemical attack, because that was different from an ordinary attack. At the same time many people got sick, because mustard gas does quite something to your body. It was chaos, but fortunately we fled straight to the higher regions and the villages in the mountains, for the coming period. Thanks to this flight, I am also thinking of all kinds of other things and attacks that we have survived, that I survived the Iraq-Iran war, which lasted eight years. This was the low point, though. Sardasht was indeed the first town after World War I that was bombarded with chemical raw materials, while the Geneva Convention of 1925 agreed: never again a chemical attack on civilians. A few months later it also happened in Halabja, in the Kurdish part of Iraq. However, the raw materials, the weapons and the ingredients that were delivered to Saddam Hussein came from a Dutch businessman, Frans van Anrat. When I was 11, when I fled to the Netherlands together with my father, my mother, my brother Hawar and my sister Hero, I found out on the plane that we were fleeing.There was always one thing grieved in my father's head, and actually also in my head and heart: go after the person who delivered the stuff to Saddam. When we found one of those, namely Frans van Anrat, in order to have him tried before the International Criminal Court in The Hague, there was only one person who wanted to go to court. Actually, no lawyer wanted to take this case except Mr. Fred Teeven. Well, you all do, I think. In the end, we really got a piece of justice, in the Netherlands. That's really special. In September 2005, Frans van Anrat was sentenced to 15 years in prison for war crimes against the victims of Sardasht and Halabja. I think this is the moment when I went to look at the VVD and liberalism something else, because the left-wing ideas have been poured into me nicely. I'm just gonna be honest with you about that. As a little boy, as I said, I experienced in Iran the many years of horrors that took place during the Iraq-Iran war under Saddam Hussein. In this war, I never really got to know freedom. I didn't get to know them until I came to Holland with my parents. I know from my own experience what real freedom is, but above all what is not freedom. In the meantime I live in this beautiful country for a number of years. I've even come across my great love. I founded a family with Fleur, whom I met in 6 vwo. We've been pretty stable together for almost 23 years. With my great love Fleur I have four children: my son Niro and my three daughters Luna, Emilia and Féline. We live in the beautiful Weesp. And that's very important. I really want to do something in return, after I've had every chance here. The fact that I'm allowed to live here with my family in freedom is very important to me. I therefore feel it as a deep responsibility to help create opportunities for those who need it. Hopefully I can do something for the opportunities I've been offered. I got a chance to go to school and develop myself. The first chance I had was actually mostly in education. Do you or do you not go to the vwo, while you have 1% Cito test chance? Still, I did get that chance. You often see that I have seen that with my nephew Namo, but also with my little brother, that you get the wrong advice at a certain school. It'll take five more years. That's too bad, because the odds have really started with me in education. The equality of opportunity in education determines so much in the rest of your life. I won't forget that. I was also given the freedom to study computer science at the VU. I even got the freedom to start a business as an IT student because I can't sit still in the second year. I started out as azzp'er, where I was the programmer, the system operator, the IT'er and administrator. Before you know it, you have fifteen employees, you have a number of e.g., you're responsible for those 15 people and you think it's important that you do everything you can to help them support themselves. As an entrepreneur, you know what it means not to receive a wage for months, so that you can pay your employees. You also know how it feels when a bank says to you: no, Mr. Rahimi, you don't get a loan; and if you get it already, it might be at 10% interest. I know and feel all the rules you have as an SMEr. I'm definitely gonna do something about that. The first time someone asked me to go into politics at all, that was former Alderman Cor van der Poel in Weesp I said: no. I know people who've been in jail. We've had a lot of trouble. All the people I know have had war and misery. But I was wrong. It is precisely war and misery that show us how important it is to stay in dialogue with each other. I now see politics as something to talk in a civilized way and not to argue with. I see politics as a way to solve things, instead of doing it in a war. 'Cause I've seen how bad a war is. No matter how you see it, it's just because we don't talk to each other and we live together. Then you're facing each other with guns instead of having a debate here with each other. I don't want to look for what separates us, I want to look for what binds us. That's so important. That is why the dialogue in this house is so important. I'm incredibly proud that I've been allowed to be a part of this for 51 days. Over the past eight years, I have learned in Weesp to exert influence and serve locally, just in the city council. I would very much like to continue this throughout the Netherlands. What is very important to me is to create and create those opportunities. You can do that in the Lower House. When I became a Member of Parliament a month and a half ago, I was incredibly happy to be able to make my dream come true, and it is not just to have a chair here, but to achieve and stand up for some of the things I just appointed. But I was even more pleased when I heard that I could be spokesperson for SMEs and entrepreneurship for the VVD Group. As a former IT entrepreneur, that portfolio fits me very well. I guess my heart started beating harder then. If we do not help our SMEs, we will have no jobs and no people working in them. It must be easier to undertake and work. The nightmare of an SME is that you can't pay out those 15 people because abruptly and unilaterally one of your biggest customers says: sorry, not more 30 days, but 90, 130 or 120 days. And if the bank says "Sorry, Rahimi, but you don't get a loan anymore," that's totally... I don't really want to use the word, but that's pretty shit and shit. And then there's the government. You knock on the door and you say, "The computer says no, I'm sorry." As an entrepreneur, you can do almost nothing about it and you almost want to throw the towel in the ring, but that's not what entrepreneurs want. They just want to do things. That's how I know it: then only three months have no pay, if you can pay the others you're responsible for. I am still concerned about a specific group of small entrepreneurs, namely the franchisees, people who have a small shop and who may still be seen as a large company because there happens to be "Intersport" or "Bruna" on the façade of the shop in some street. For them a payment period of 30 days seems complicated, because the moment of purchase and the moment of sale are a bit further apart. Our question is: does the Minister recognize this concern? My first and only goal is to protect these SMEs, because they are. My question to the Minister is: has this group been taken into account and how does it see the consequences of their position if we adopt the law as it is today? As announced, I have prepared an amendment that creates an exception for this group. How does the Minister look at the possibility of creating an exemption position for this retail stock, where the time of purchase and the time of sale are more than 30 days apart, so that they can only agree with mutual agreement if both sides agree to a longer payment period of up to 60 days? Mr. Chairman. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer. I look forward to the coming years, in which I hope I will be able to work with all of you in this Chamber for what I am sworn in for, and especially for all those wonderful entrepreneurs, those SMEs, because 71% of the jobs come from that corner. We really need to stand up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Rahimi. Thank you also for taking us into your life story and for letting us reflect on what you experienced as a younger person and how you stand here today. I really appreciate you doing that. I wish you every success in the Chamber. As usual, I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment, so that you may have the opportunity to be congratulated on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Amhaouch of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, that was an impressive personal story by Mr Rahimi, also about his father's involvement at the time. He mentioned June 28th 1987, when the bombs fell there. In the context of where we are in Europe today, you can see that history can repeat itself in many areas. Nevertheless, it is, of course, equally relative that we are going to discuss a legislative proposal here, and it is a fine bill which deals with the reduction of payment periods. Mr Rahimi has put all this in that context. I congratulate Mr Rahimi, also for his perseverance, and I am pleased that he can be a part of this and that we can be colleagues. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's coming up with a nice bill. This also fits in with the CDA idea: SMEs are the norm. The fact that entrepreneurs are paid in time for the provision of a product or service should be normal in a fair economy. That must be the rule and not the exception. Unfortunately, this is not always the practice in the Netherlands. Thousands ofzzp'ers and SMEs often have to wait longer than those 30 days for their money, because large companies extend the payment period. This weakens the liquidity position of small businesses and creates continuity problems. Mr. Chairman. The CDA cares about the fate of these small entrepreneurs and often also family businesses. After all, they are the engine of our economy. Our country has more than 1 millionzzp'ers and almost 99% of businesses are SMEs, if you look at the definition of 250 employees or 40 million sales. We have to be careful about that. We must nurture that. Once again, SMEs are the norm for the CDA. In a fair economy, SMEs should not be afraid of large businesses. In a fair economy, big and small work together instead of against each other. On the basis of a level playing field, while, of course, it is not always there in that power ratio, it is important that the large business should have an additional social responsibility towards these small businesses. Mr. Chairman. As early as 2017, my colleague Agnes Mulder therefore presented an initiative proposal that limited the payment period of large business to SMEs to 60 days. She did so together with Mei Li Vos, the colleague of the PvdA. That was an important step, because until then invoices were paid by the large company only after 90 or even 120 days. You wouldn't think about that now! That came to an end with this bill. If it had been up to the CDA, we would have already included the 30-day deadline in that legal standard in 2017. Unfortunately, however, there was no majority in the Chamber for this proposal and no support in the cabinet either. Those were the last months of Rutte II. Fortunately, that support seems to be there now, five years later. And that is a good thing, because manyzzp'ers and SMEs have to wait even longer than those 30 days. This is evident from research commissioned by former Secretary of State Keijzer on the motion of former colleague Wörsdörfer of the VVD and me. The average payment period of the large business to SMEs was 42.8 days in 2021, i.e. in corona time. In 2019, at the time of the high economy for the corona crisis, the deadline was also set at 40 days. That's why such a law is still needed. It is therefore a good thing that the then Secretary of State has come up with the proposal before us to make payment deadlines the legal standard within 30 days. That is, of course, also in our election programme, because we consider this to be important as a CDA. Dealing neatly with each other, in which we are in favour of self-regulation where it can be done and legislation where it has to be done. Legislation is clearly in place here. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. A law is a dead letter if it is not enforced. On 26 January 2021, the ACM Reporting Point was launched, where SMEs can anonymously report on large companies. What information has this hotline yielded so far? How is the Minister going to evaluate this and reconnect it to the Chamber? Is there still a need, as a result of the results, for a genuinely independent public oversight? Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with my last two sentences. This bill is an important building block after five years of efforts to protect small companies from these large companies....................................................................................................................................................................................... As a CDA, we've made our contribution so that the economy gets a little more honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you to Mr Amhaouch, who spoke on behalf of the CDA. I would now like to give the floor to Mr De Jong, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Rahimi on his speech. When we met, I also had some difficulty with Mr Rahimi's first name. He gave me as real Frisian a beautiful donkey bridge. He said, "Hawre, Hawré? No, Haure, because that sounds like Joure." I'll never forget that. Now I just have to make sure I don't keep comparing him to Joure. I think it's an incredibly impressive story. I am also glad that you are sitting here and that from that moment on you will now be allowed to hold the highest office in the Lower House of the States General. So an incredible compliment to you. I am also aware that there is now another former entrepreneur in the Chamber, because it is also important that people from the field of work also take part in this setting. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands owes a great deal to SMEs. Entrepreneurs and those companies are also the backbone of the economy. They provide jobs, products and services that benefit us all. As a former entrepreneur, I am always looking forward to having these debates, even today. The coalition agreement also states that the starting point for our thinking is always SMEs first. We're happy about it, and we're proud of it. I'm glad that rule's in there. The legislative change before us is also a fine way of thinking: SMEs first. With the input of my colleague, I am therefore very happy, who is making an effort for this entrepreneur. The CDA was right to say, "Have a good time with each other." I actually think that's a very nice summary of what this part stands for. For D66, this means that it is important for entrepreneurs to be protected from strong parties, from market players who can unilaterally impose contracts and set a payment period. Unfortunately, it is too common for large companies to pay too late, making it difficult for SMEs to cooperate with large companies. That is precisely what I am concerned about, and that is why I welcome this proposal. Because what matters is how these SMEs bridge the time between delivery and payment. For small businesses, this can be very problematic. We support this bill, but we still have a few substantive questions about it. Our group would like to protect entrepreneurs from these long payment periods. But we also know examples where companies do not pay in time because funding is simply not available. A practical example is a furniture store that says: we have a bank in stock. It is put here by the supplier and only after the bank has been sold can we also pay that bank to the supplier. So for some things, in the current situation, it doesn't work within 30 days. My colleague from the VVD referred to this problem. My question is therefore as well: what are the solutions for the funding gap that some companies will have if this payment period gets longer? How is that looked at? It is also a good thing that the government is now going through this legislative change to protect the environment for business, for SMEs as well as for growth. But the rules of the game must be clear and fair to everyone. They need to give space to all entrepreneurs. Fortunately, the economy is much bigger than the Netherlands. That is why the following question to the Minister. If cooperation between large companies and Dutch SMEs requires a short payment period, how does it work in other EU Member States? What impact does this have on the competitiveness of Dutch SMEs? How does the Minister look at possible differences with a view to harmonising the internal market? Will the Minister make an effort to extend this change to other SME countries in Europe, and what is needed for this? Mr. Chairman. Then a little bit to what Mr Amhaouch also just mentioned: the Amhaouch Reporting Point. We have also spoken in writing about this with the Minister through the report, but I would like to talk again about this hotline, because it does not exist for very long. I also ask the Minister how often this has been used and what reports come in. But above all: do entrepreneurs know how to find this hotline and how are we going to make it known to those entrepreneurs? Especially given the situation that was chosen during the corona pandemic not to bring this hotline to the fore. How are the entrepreneurs who come forward then helped with the problem they are reporting? The purpose of the hotline was, among other things, to decide whether public supervision is necessary. My question is then: what is the Minister leaning towards, and why? The hotline would only be opened for one year. Does the Minister intend to extend this deadline? Why is that, or why not? Let me now turn to the monitoring and evaluation of the functioning of the legislative amendment. A number of opinions show that the final compliance and enforcement of this proposal is not certain. I then struggle with the question: to what extent can SMEs actually enforce shorter payment periods with large suppliers? And what happens if that puts the trade relationship under strain? Especially if it leads to lawsuits, what does that mean? We always see that, once there is a real conflict, there are at least two losers. So how do we deal with the law in practice? Perhaps I should immediately make the bridge to Mr Rahimi, who mentioned the franchise. I see the problem differently. I know what you're saying. There are, indeed, issues that may have problems with this. But it is often the case that franchisees are small entrepreneurs, sole proprietors, vof's, who use the franchiser, but also the purchasing organisation. The franchisee is in itself well protected, because that is the small entrepreneur. But the purchasing organization behind it is a large company. It has a lot of power and purchasing advantages. If we agree to this law, the purchasing organisation behind a franchise organisation will need more working capital to provide the same services. That is what this law is for, but then we come back to that funding gap, which I asked questions about earlier, when it comes to the financing of this scheme. Back to the evaluation. How do we make this as accessible as possible to SMEs? I have just expressed my concerns about long payment periods. The written answer to the questions on this legislative proposal refers to the fact that the evaluation is not included because it is unclear when there is an appropriate time for the evaluation. Actually, I think that's kind of a tricky answer. Why is that unclear? Can the Minister explain why no evaluation clause has been included? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Does the Minister know when there will be an appropriate time for the evaluation? Can the Minister clarify today when the law is being evaluated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	I see that Mr Rahimi is planning an interruption. Mr. Rahimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	First of all, thank you for your lovely words. I understand Mr De Jong's story. I had another question about the franchisees and the large purchasing organisations. My concern is that these large purchasing organizations see the Bruna around the corner and the Intersport as a big name and that is why they tell them to pay within 30 days. My question is whether this is clear, because then we have the same picture. These SMEs are suddenly seen as large companies, because they operate under the name Bruna, whereas in reality they are just an e.g. with ten employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	The official answer is: legal is not so. Legally they are indeed exactly what Mr Rahimi says. They're just a small SME. But I share his opinion that it may appear that this is a large company. Of course, it is a relatively limited group throughout the spectrum of this bill, but my problem is in the financing capacity of the hole that is going to arise between 30 and 60 days. I would like to make a proposal for this in the second term. Maybe I can explain that at the time. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The good position of SMEs is a good and important objective with regard to D66. Our starting position is in every debate: let entrepreneurs do business. After all, we owe a large part of this strong economy to SMEs. So to keep our economy strong, we will also have to take good care of SMEs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten. It speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Rahimi on his membership of this Chamber and his impressive maiden speech. It's nice to hear how to make such a false start.It's more than a false start.It can turn into a contribution to society. I think you are an example for a lot of people. Then this bill. How sad is it actually that we need this bill, I ask the Minister, because you just want bills to be paid quickly? Fast or not paying your bill quickly is a financial tool for a lot of big companies to ensure that their balance sheet is solid to the eye. But the small entrepreneur that we are talking about here, who is not protected, can really get in trouble if large companies do not pay quickly. When the bill came for 60 days, my group said: how are we going to follow this in a good way? The hotline has arrived and we had to make an evaluation. I don't think we have that evaluation, but we're moving to 30 days. The SP is in favour of this, in order to protect entrepreneurs who otherwise have simply done work for which they are not paid, which puts them in trouble. But what does it actually say that this is necessary? And what does it say that the biggest criticism is: how are we going to maintain this? How are we going to evaluate this and when are we going to evaluate this? Because as sad as it is that we need this instrument at all, is this instrument ultimately sharp enough? 'Cause I want to. In preparing this bill, I have had a lot of contact with Mr Rahimi, which I very much enjoyed. He talked about working together in his maiden speech and in the past the SP has worked with the VVD very often when it comes to business for SMEs. I also really look forward to taking that up again in the future and doing so more often. I had doubts about co-signing the amendment tabled by Mr Rahimi. I didn't just do that because I couldn't think straight about the legal situation. But I do support the principle that you should not get into trouble with those 30 days because you have stock and have to sell that stock first in order to pay the bill. I would ask the Minister to go along with that amendment, because I think it is an addition...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	Can you finish up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. It's a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	Oh, it'll take longer. Yeah, I just see... Sorry. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	No, I'm almost there, too. Really. We see the problem of those stockholders. But agreements can also be made by mutual agreement: one hopes to obtain 30 days and have sold the stock on time, but if not, an exception can be made. I would like that space to be there, but I would very much regret it if, from the goodness of the idea that we arrange it, other entrepreneurs, who should not be included in it, we also knock out another instrument that makes it possible for them to say: "Hello, we had agreed on 30 days." That is why I did not co-sign that amendment, but I support the objective. So I ask the Minister to reflect on this legally, because in the end, of course, the bill is super simple. It concerns amending another bill, which provides for 60 days, to new 30 days. So I'm sure that's legally-technical, but I'd like to know. It seems to me that it is an open door that we are making this possible. I see what people are standing by the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	I see it, too. The bill may be simple, but your input raises a question for Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	Not just a question, but also enthusiasm. If Mrs Leijten is very excited to talk about working together, then of course I will not miss the opportunity to take a look at this. I'm very pleased with your contribution. I am also very glad that you say: we think this is very important, we have looked at it earlier to change the 60 days now to 30 days later. You were close to signing the amendment. We've been looking into that, too. Nor did we endorse it, because we too have doubts about legal status when we do so. However, we like the idea behind it. That is the idea: the entrepreneur who has a lot of stock might have a problem. This is a small part of all SMEs involved, but that is what this is about. I would like to draw the Minister's attention in the second term to the following. As a Chamber, let us examine what financial instruments are actually there to do for those entrepreneurs who are struggling to finance their large stock. It is too dangerous for me to keep that 60-day payment period open with this amendment. That leaves a large company with risks to extend the payment period. As a Chamber, let us investigate the funding gap for entrepreneurs who have a lot of stock and have trouble financing it. That would be worth a lot to me. I hope, therefore, that I can count on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think so. I think the need for this bill is sad and sad. I started with that, after the warm words for Mr Rahimi. I can't keep saying that enough. That therefore means that we are a little hesitant to endorse Mr Rahimi's amendment's intention. I didn't do that because I can't look at it legally enough, but I'm very sympathetic to it. I think in advance I would advise my group to vote in favour if we should vote now. We have had a lot of discussions in the past, including in the Chamber, about making a way of financing possible, and about how difficult it is for SMEs to get funding, all of you. An investigation can never hurt, of course, but we are talking about a legislative proposal here. I wouldn't want us to tie it too tight so we're gonna be in trouble. So maybe it's en-and. The bill is super-sympathetic and super-simple, but I think the drawback of the bill is a little bit that there is no evaluation underneath it and that we have not been able to discuss the existing concerns sufficiently. I think you mentioned those concerns, too. That's why I'm struggling with it a little bit. I do not know what proposal you are proposing for an investigation, but a study of financing options is always fine. The aim is to pay the bills as soon as possible, but not to cause problems for entrepreneurs who are not yet able to do so. That's what we need to figure out. I think that is the easiest answer, but I find it difficult to say that I support your proposal because I have not yet seen it. I have, of course, seen Mr Rahimi's. That's why I was able to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	I will take that last point to heart. Next time, I will knock on Mrs Leijten's door earlier. Mrs Leijten puts her finger on the sore spot, because that is exactly what this is about. But is it about that small group of entrepreneurs who really have trouble financing that piece and is the solution then to extend that payment period under conditions to 60 days? My group has difficulty with that. I think it is very good to force that large company to handle those 30 days, but the problem remains for those entrepreneurs. I'll tell you a little bit more about it in the second term, but it's about exactly what you say. It is precisely the question of what to finance there. Entrepreneurs are having trouble financing that. That's where my concern lies. I think that is what we are going to discuss again within a few weeks as a Chamber in a committee debate, but I share those concerns with you. I hope that we can see from the Ministry what we can do about it, because it is worth something to me to get this bill through the Chamber to show the big business: SMEs are a serious partner for you, but the bills just have to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	I think we share that. In the context of this bill, of course, it was a bit of a quickie, wasn't it? It was filed at a certain time, so it was on the front page of a newspaper. A certain Secretary of State for Economic Affairs also made good grace with that. It is then very difficult to say in the Chamber as a party: well, I don't want to go from 60 to 30 days, because I see some hooks and eyes. We all do. I'd like to go to ten days, too. I'd be fine with that, too. At the same time, you don't want to get companies in trouble. That's what I think we're talking about. That is why I asked the Minister to go into this very carefully and further, because we are inclined to make that exception possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	I see that Mr Amhaouch also wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	If it were up to us, it would have been settled in 2017. The potential is that the funding gap will be closed for almost 55 billion by setting the new standard of 30 days; that is what I read in the documents. This will help the largest group of SMEs, the small entrepreneurs. Nor can I understand Mr Rahimi's amendment on whether it is the solution to an existing problem. Indeed, many franchise entrepreneurs are just small e.g. companies. I would like to see the following with Mrs Leijten. I was triggered by the fact that she said she would have no objection if parties, i.e. large companies and small businesses, could reach mutual agreement; it is that word'mutual'. I know that Mrs Leijten is sometimes suspicious of the large company, but I am concerned about whether there is a level playing field. Is there a level playing field? Can you even speak of mutual agreement if you made the exception? Maybe it's on paper, but is it actually there? That is why I would also like to know from the Minister what is going on in practice with the feedback from that hotline. Again to Mrs Leijten: how do you see this happening in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	So that's exactly one of the things I'm worried about, because of course you know there are just power differences. Mr Amhaouch has already done so for the second time in a debate on Economic Affairs: putting me in the corner a little bit that I would hate business. That's bullshit. So I'd also like to ask him to stop doing that. I can only see that the one with the most pennies and the largest size is always the upper party when there are power differences. It can push away the small batch. In a market situation, it can push away its competitor. I think that's unhealthy. I'll keep saying that. That's not because I hate it, but because I'm analyzing what's happening. I'll find this one thing. At the time of your mutual agreement... Suppose you're two small SMEs, you're developing something and you're actually putting it in the window and saying "pay me that only when you sell it," because that pre-financing can't. If that's consensual, I have no objection to it. But especially when it comes to different sizes and maybe a power difference, I worry about it. That is why I asked the Minister to take a good look at it, because I do feel like making an exception possible, but I also want to avoid creating a shortcut for those situations that you do not want to create. That's why I say I see the problem. Mr. Amhaouch said he doesn't know if that problem exists. I think there's a problem. I've had people come to my house who could explain that convincingly to me. At the same time, therefore, I am reluctant to co-sign the amendment, because I do not fully understand it. That is why I asked the Minister these questions. In advance, I do have a positive attitude. But that mutuality must not, of course, be in a situation of a power difference in which someone is forced to accept that mutuality. That is expressly not the intention. I am sure that is not the intention of the authors of the amendment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I understand from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, Mrs Adriaansens, that she would like to suspend for fifteen minutes in order to be able to respond to the first deadline. So we'll get back together at 11:50. Then I'll suspend until 11:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	I call Mrs Adriaansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. I start very slowly, because I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Rahimi on his maiden speech today. We've all been listening breathless. Thank you for your inspiration, because it is very good to realize once in a while why we are here. So thank you for that. I wish you a very good time and I look forward to working together, because we serve the same interest. We want a healthy economy with a level playing field between big and small. There are differences in the world and they can be there, if people are able to treat entrepreneurs fairly in this case. That, of course, is where this bill comes from. I am therefore grateful to your Chamber for the motion, which I believe is unanimously adopted, to go from 60 to 30 days for the unequal relationship between large businesses and small businesses. I can't say enough about this relationship. Also in the debate we have just had and in the input I note that what we are talking about is not always entirely clear. Mr. De Jong just gave it very well: this is really about the relationship between a large company that contracts a small company and has to pay for it. That payment period is too long. In this respect, we differ from the rest of Europe, from the northern countries. In the southern countries there are sometimes even longer deadlines. I liked the fact that Mrs Leijten said that it is actually very sad that such a law is needed. I fully agree with that, because we all want fewer rules, but apparently we are forced to do something that we really do not think should be done. So we are in complete agreement on the intention mentioned by Mr Rahimi to remove this inequality, but the franchisees are very often small companies and are among SMEs. They can therefore do business with equal parties on the basis of that European directive. That's not gonna change. If you agree on that together, then you have that level playing field so you have up to 60 days. In exceptional circumstances, you can even go over that. By doing so, we believe that we have created a fair playing field for the parties, so that they can do equivalent business. The amendment ignores that, because it really only helps the franchisee and not the franchisee. Indeed, the relationship between the franchisee and the franchisee is uneven. We therefore want to help SMEs. That is why I shall vote in favour of this amendment. 8 dissuaded. So it is not so much about intention, but about implementation, because it is not achieving our goal. I would very much like to undertake an evaluation. I understand that's what they're asking for. I think that's right, too. I think we need to monitor very carefully what's happening now. That's about a few things. We have a transitional period of one year in the law. So it would be crazy to evaluate after a year, because then you've only been through a year, but after two years it might be a very good time to evaluate what's going on. So I'd like to make a commitment to that evaluation in advance. Then we will also pay particular attention to the problems outlined in this type of stockholding company.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	I see Mrs Leijten is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	I would like to ask the Minister whether she will then come up with a letter of amendment to set the evaluation deadline or whether she will leave it up to the Members of Parliament to put it in. My experience is that it is nice when the intention is there, but that it is better if it is in the law, because then we have arranged it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	I agree with you. It better be fixed. So yes, I would like to add it with a letter of amendment. I'd be fine with that. Then that's what we'll do. That was actually the most important question in Mr Rahimi's speech. I believe that I have given it sufficient consideration. Then there are the questions that have to do with that. How do you ensure that these payment periods are as short as possible? Then what do you have in your hands to enforce that? That was also an important question from Mr De Jong. According to Mr Amouch, so did he. I'm saying it wrong again. It's Amhaouch. I realize. There was also a small donkey bridge for that; that is what I have been given! Mr. Chairman. Compliance is in legal interest, but I am well aware that compliance is difficult in an uneven playing field. Then there are procedures. Then you'll have to recover. Then you have to send in the bailiff. We therefore believe that this law helps to some extent to comply with it. After all, you go back to the 30 days in the unequal ratio. Mr. Chairman. The hotline was also requested. Maybe that's good to take with you. The hotline entered into force a year ago. It's been a year. That was actually at the request of one of my predecessors, Secretary of State Keijzer. We want to extend it for a year. After that year, we want to take a very close look at what emerges from these reports. I'll give you some information about the reports in a moment. Then we can see if we should do something extra, for example whether we should have a public supervisor. You can imagine we'd have to do something with publication. I would like to have some room to see what is the best method. You could say, "Let's appoint a supervisor right away." I am a little reluctant to do that, because I feel the need to reduce the regulatory burden and bureaucracy a little bit in this country. If it's necessary, it's necessary. But at first, I want to know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	If it's not necessary, of course it's not necessary. I do hear that the Minister takes that in a positive light. I just want to take a look at the practical implementation of this. It has been said that it is too soon to evaluate the legislative proposal after one year. I understand. After two years, we take this together in the evaluation, including the hotline. Do we have to do something extra for that or do you see it as two separate evaluations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	That's a good question. This is now coming out spontaneously this morning on the basis of the input, in order to be more concrete about that evaluation period. I think it's okay to give information about the hotline after two years, what the reports are. And I think that we need to see whether it makes sense to have that hotline go through and draw it parallel to the evaluation period. So I'll take a look at that, because I think it makes sense to involve as much information as possible in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	Before you continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. It may be that I am asking a question that is easy or difficult to answer, or perhaps a little unnecessary. But that hotline, has it been agreed that you will periodically publish it to the Chamber or report it to the Chamber, also knowing that hotlines can of course be reported on things that need to be solved ad hoc, and that you do not want to run into after a year and a half, so "hey, have we run into a problem for so long"? So how exactly is that arranged? I don't really have it on the retina, you know. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	I can imagine that very well. I think it would be good to give some information on this at least, and then to see what the Chamber needs. At least we have now extended the hotline for one year, until 25 January 2023. That was actually the starting point before I entered this debate, but I have just said a few words about it. We've got some reports of 70 in 13 months. The question is how do you weigh that; is that much, is that little? This also depends on whether it was sufficiently known or whether entrepreneurs know about it. It seems that the hotline is relatively unknown. I would therefore like to focus on providing more information to SMEs on that hotline, so that we also have some more information to take into account in the decisions we want to take. The factors involved are, for example, the scale of the problem of late payment, the extent to which the payment period is exceeded, the extent to which SMEs claim interest from larger companies than legal ones. That's the kind of thing that's being taken into account. And I've also asked what the amounts we're talking about are. These 70 notifications amounted to almost 3 million, which is an average of €42,000 per report. Of course it's a bit too short to conclude, but that's a bit of the bandwidth. And the sectors in which it occurs are construction, care, wholesale and retail and industry. So that's just as global as it is. I think it is good to answer Mrs Leijten's question that we are happy to provide this kind of information. And I could imagine that we do that every year, so every year we look at the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mrs Leijten, would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	I do not know if it can be answered now, but it seems useful to me that this kind of information is known, for example, when we are discussing the budget. If that's feasible, huh? If I make a completely unfeasible proposal, I will hear it again, but that is, of course, a time when you are talking about economic policy and this kind of facet. So if that were possible, it would just be a good time to receive a report on that. Of course we don't need a name and a name; that's not the point. But that global image is good to receive, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	I agree with the logical reporting moments. That's a good proposal. Those are also the answers to the questions that have been asked around the hotline, and about when we can reach a decision on a possible other form of enforcement to see if you can promote compliance. It has also been asked, in particular by Mr De Jong, whether we want the legislative amendment to apply to SMEs from other countries. There is a possibility of choice of law in international trade. So there's that playing field. And we have the European directive that actually applies to all other relationships here in the Netherlands. So we're not going to do this more actively than we already do, because we've been pretty active in it. Even more pressing on those 30 days... That is, moreover, the directive in Europe, which lasts 30 days. We also expect that Mr De Jong's question was not an impact on competitiveness, because there is a choice of law and because it is not the decisive factor in doing business. So we have no evidence to suggest that that would be an obstacle. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of what is going on between equal players in the field, so small-mkb doing business with small-mkb. We see that the discipline there is greater. We also have less reason to worry about that right away. We see the big difference that the payment period for large companies is often part of their business model, so it is used in the way they do business. They're funding it. With SMEs, we see that the use of longer payment periods has much more to do with payment problems. Then we have a completely different problem. That is also worrying in itself, but there are other tools to use for that, including making other arrangements with the party with which you do business. Because you're an SME, you can. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to add that there are other solutions, although I know that they are not always accessible to everyone. We also have tools as a factoring tool to fund your claims. We can also make working capital available, for example through Qredits. This too must be brought to the attention of these entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. I have already said what is necessary about the evaluation. Then I see I've run out of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Minister. Then I look at the members of the House of Representatives if there is a need for a second term. I think so. Yeah, there is. Then I give the floor to Mr Rahimi, who will speak on behalf of the VVD in the second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers and also the Minister for their fine words. I thank the Minister for the answers. I was talking about connection. That's great: working with the SP and I didn't have a pen. I already have a CDA pen. So this is gonna be all right. Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answers. We understand, and it is not our point to table an amendment. That's not the point. There are a few thousand entrepreneurs where we see that there is danger. We want to ensure that there is real attention to this and that it is simply resolved if they get into trouble. We also welcome the commitment on evaluation. There has been a lot of consultation and such. We get the answers. There's also a lot of noise. There's a lot of questions, too. I have just decided to withdraw the amendment and put forward a motion immediately. Do I read it to you? Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the SME entrepreneur, in relation to larger customers and suppliers, often has a relatively unfavourable negotiating position and can therefore, among other things, be confronted with long payment periods to its disadvantage;]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal aims to reduce this disadvantage but focuses specifically on the SME as a supplier and the larger company as a customer, thereby avoiding disadvantages for SMEs as a customer;]] [[Whereas it is conceivable that cooperating retailers in SMEs, for example in a context of franchise, as a result of this law face shorter payment periods in respect of their stocks than they can currently use;]] [[Invites the Government to examine and report to the Chamber in the review of the law on the adverse effects of this law on SME retailers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Rahimi.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35769-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but we do support a number of things that have been said here. Very important, Mrs Leijten, is already looking at what I am going to say. Cooperation, as well as the protection of the position of SMEs. This bill is very important in this respect. It has indeed taken a while until we have been able to discuss it here. I hope that we can take further steps together in this cabinet period under the motto'mkb is the norm'. We have nothing against the big business and the cooperation with it is good. So that's what we're gonna do. A number of things have passed, such as the evaluation. I would also like to mention Mrs Leijten's point on feedback on the hotline. There is also an annual reporting payment monitor. I think it's very good for that, so we can act on that. For the CDA, it is important that we do not create a paper tiger, but that we actually help SMEs. And, Mr President, we have seen it again today: donkey bridges are always very handy!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I do not need an ass bridge now, because my list now includes Mr De Jong on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr President. It's true, I've never heard anyone use an ass bridge to pronounce "Mr. De Jong." Mr. Chairman. I am actually very happy and also positively surprised that the Minister is taking things so quickly. I would also come on behalf of the VVD and the CDA with a motion on an evaluation after two years. However, the Minister has indicated that she is about to record this, so that motion can be removed from the list immediately. I also welcome the Minister's intention to see what we can do to make the hotline more public. Many entrepreneurs I speak to do not know that this exists. The hotline helps in particular in the underlying communication to make the companies more resilient. I heard the Minister just now talking about factoring of Qredits, but I also wonder what effect this has on credit insurers. Many SMEs also have credit insurance. If the legal payment period goes back to 30 days, it may also be that they will be collected more quickly, because most of the time they are stuck behind it for a few days. I am also pleased that Mr Rahimi withdraws his amendment, stating that he has made his point clear. I would like to congratulate him from here on bringing an amendment to this House in his very first debate. Well, that's a brave thing to do, and that's what compliments are for. I have another motion on which I have already hinted in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that shortening the legal payment period to 30 days for the majority of SMEs will lead to a better position vis-à-vis large companies;]] [[noting that this legislative amendment could lead to bottlenecks in financing issues for specific SMEs;]] [[Whereas SMEs are the starting point of the government's economic policy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the bottlenecks in SME financing as a result of shortening the legal payment period to 30 days and the tools available to remedy this;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Romke de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35769-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you. I think this is a good legal treatment. The concerns are clear. We have discussed where the doubts lie and what the intentions are to which I believe we have come out well. Thank you to the Minister for keeping us informed about the hotline. Also thank you for including an evaluation period in the law. I think this makes sense, because we want to help those involved forward and not impose rules in which people get caught up again or who are ultimately just a paper tiger or beautiful appearance. I look forward to working with Mr Rahimi and, I am sure, with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Before we suspend briefly, I would just like to confirm for a moment that the amendment has been withdrawn, as was also stated by Mr Rahimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u47	I give the floor to the Minister for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I could have taken the floor right away, but there was one thing that triggered me. I'll explain that in a moment. I'd like to give both motions a ruling Chamber. So I totally agree with that. But I was referring to Mr. De Jong's point that SMEs are the starting point of the government's policy. I thought I'd check out what's in the coalition agreement. That's why I walked out of the hall for a while. Let me put it this way: I fully endorse it, but there are also other principles. 'Cause I'm going too far to say I'm going to subsect or overschedule. I know I'm inciting something now, but I want to say that I think SMEs are extremely important, that I see that there is no level playing field and that we are making a huge effort over the coming period to strengthen that position of SMEs in all kinds of ways, as a crucial part of our economy. But I am also very focused on a good balance between big and small. That doesn't mean I support the big business with that. In fact, I would like to support it in full width. Mr President, that was my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u49	This is something indeed! No, I'm very happy with the nuance, but I'm also very happy that the coalition says that we should indeed provide a level playing field. We need to ensure that SMEs and large companies can work together. You agree with me. I am also glad that that phrase is simply in the coalition agreement. This has also been different in previous reigns, so I am very pleased that we are not just writing it down but that the Minister now agrees with, recognises and appoints it in this debate, so that SMEs and large companies can work together on this strong economy of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u50	You were at the end of your second term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr De Jong, because I could not have said it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your appreciation of the motions. I have noted a commitment, namely that there will be a note of amendment to include the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-4.u53	I would like to point out that the two motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I would also like to point out that this has brought us to the end of the discussion of this bill. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.10 p.m. On the resumption of the meeting, the debate will take place on the report "Strengthening functions of Tweede Kamer - More than the sum of the parts" and on the forms of association in the Tweede Kamer. Thank you, MPs and minister, for being here.
