ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Wijngaarden amending the Law on Abruption of Pregnancy and certain other laws relating to the legal medical termination of pregnancy through the GP, Section 34891. I would like to welcome the initiators. Unfortunately, Mrs Tellegen cannot be present, but it is very nice that Mr Van Wijngaarden has taken over. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport in trade union K. He's the advisor to the Chamber today. Of course, I would also like to welcome the supporters, in particular Mr Daniel de Rijke, a policy officer at GroenLinks, as well as, of course, all those who are following the debate. We had the first term of office a while ago, no, not so long ago, on 9 February last. And we're back to the sequel! Today we are going to conclude the whole debate, at least that is the aim, with the exception of the votes. We'll do the votes next week. We start with the first term on the side of the initiators to answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a special day today. We have been looking forward to answering the many questions that the Chamber has asked about our own initiative law. As is now good practice, we have divided the answer into cubes. It's the next block. First of all, I should like to mention the reason for this initiative law. Then I will consider the balance in the law and how we guarantee it. Thirdly, I will deal with the performance by the general practitioner. Then Mrs. Ploumen will take over from me. It will consider the financial consequences of our initiative law and then social support. Then Mr Paternotte will take over. He'll be talking about scientific research and medical care. Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden will be responsible for the varia block. Very important too! Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will start with the reason for this initiative proposal, because it was not just a legislative proposal. We have made good use of driving forces in society, to begin with, of course, with all those women who have been on the streets for years for even better abortion care. But many women's organisations and civil society organisations have also been working for a long time. Without wanting to do other shortcomings, it's always dangerous if you're going to mention a few. I'd like to mention a few in particular: WOMEN Inc., Rutgers, DeGoedeZaak and the Humanist Covenant. A number of general practitioners have also played an important role, and have played them for a long time. That is a larger group, of which I would like to mention two in particular: Mrs Mirella Buurman and, in particular, Mr Peter Leusink. Finally, of course, I would also like to mention Mrs Edith Schippers. She was the first to take the political initiative for this bill. Then perhaps I can briefly dwell on history. Where and when did we start? That was in 2016. Then Minister Schippers submitted her bill. Then, of course, there were elections and in 2017 we got a new cabinet, Rutte III cabinet. That's when her bill was rescinded. That was also the moment when I, just a Member of Parliament, took the initiative, initially with Mrs Sharon Dijksma. When she left the Chamber, Mrs Ploumen took over from her. I am very glad that we now have the VVD and D66 under this bill in 2022. In particular, I would like to mention Mrs Tellegen here and thank her very much for everything she has done. Since the start of this whole process, there have actually been two major changes. The first change was at the request of the general practitioners. They saw an objection to the licensing requirement contained in Mrs Schippers' original bill. We have adapted that; I shall be speaking about this in greater detail. The second major change took place at the request of the Council of State. This amendment concerns better safeguarding of the balance contained in the Law on Abruption Pregnancy. It was also about ensuring a better balance in our legislative proposal. I'll get back to that in a minute. The point I want to make here in particular is that it has been quite a long process and also a careful process. When it comes to medical-ethical issues, it is perhaps also a good thing that we do so carefully and have taken advantage of all the valuable advice that has been received. Mr. Chairman. Now to the questions of the Chamber. I would like to begin with a very important question raised by a number of Members. Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Maeijer and Mr Hijink asked why this law, why this initiative? There are three answers to that. I would like to start with the main objective of this proposal: to give women more freedom of choice and, of course, to further improve the quality of abortion care. We know that women's preferences are different. Some women like to go to an abortion clinic and others prefer to go to their general practitioner, because it can be an intimate and sensitive process. Then the GP prefers them. That is, I think, the main objective: to increase freedom of choice. It is also important to mention that we also assume that with our legislative proposal we can improve the care about unwanted pregnancies. Examples include the prevention of repeat abortions, precisely because of the role of the general practitioner. I shall come back to that in more detail. Thirdly, and very importantly, with our legislative proposal, we want to increase access to abortion care for women who are in an environment that is negative or critical of abortions, for whom it is more difficult to ask for abortion care, especially if they have to travel longer and be away longer. We also consider the accessibility of abortion care for women in vulnerable positions to be very important. These are the three elements that explain why we have taken this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's about the main goal. Mrs Ellemeet says that the main objective is freedom of choice. I have a question about that. We do not know whether the outcome of this law will be that this freedom of choice will actually be greatly increased. We don't know how many doctors are gonna do this. General practitioners indicate 'we want to do so in itself', but a lot also indicate 'we do not know if we are able to do so in a good way'. That's a tough one for me. Freedom of choice is good, but freedom of choice is no more important to me than the certainty that the quality of care is in order, especially if there are concerns, for example about whether a general practitioner can act at the same level, work and judge as is happening in an abortion clinic. My group still has serious concerns there. I also see these concerns in general practitioners themselves. They have not yet received this training; they still need to be trained. How do we ensure that freedom of choice is not at the expense of the quality of care on the one hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	An important question. For us as initiators, too, it is important to ensure the quality of care. I will come back in detail to the ways in which we all want to do that. The general practitioners of course already play a role when women first come to them, but also when women after they have had an abortion pill, provided by the clinics, often come back to the general practitioner before aftercare. There are all kinds of ways in which we guarantee quality. I'm gonna walk past it in a little bit more detail. GPs are right to ask for training as well. We fully support that, and that is also being worked out and extended. Also important to mention is that they are not separate from all kinds of other specialists, the abortion doctors, the gynecologists and social workers. It is about the interplay between all these professionals, the creation of good guidelines and the creation of a good education programme, which guarantees the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	My concern is that giving abortion doctors themselves is also in the limited number of abortions that would end up with the general practitioner as a result of this law. That may not be at all proportionate to the enormous investment a general practitioner has to make in order to be able to do that very limited number of treatments per year, if you know what I mean. You need the equipment. You need the training. GP's overloaded. To what extent can you ask a GP to achieve the same quality level as that abortion doctor who does it every day, who is trained in it and who may do so several times a day? Can you expect a GP, can you ask a GP to work at that level, when he actually has to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	I will go into more detail about what these training and guidelines mean. A number of things are important to say. First of all, part of that care already lies with general practitioners, especially when it comes to early unintended pregnancies. About half of the women join the general practitioner in the first instance. The conversation between the wife and the general practitioner is already taking place and the family doctor is already being referred to for a large part for aftercare. A large part of the care provided is therefore already provided by the general practitioners. We are indeed going to create a whole training programme for this. It's up to the GP himself to decide whether he or she wants to. We do know that not all general practitioners will want that, so it will be a gradual process anyway. In my view, therefore, there is no reason to worry about quality, but we must pay particular attention to it. So do we and the general practitioners, so I think we can really take away the concerns of the SP about well anchoring the quality of abortion care in general practitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to ask you a little about the danger that Mrs Ellemeet or others will come back to this later. There are three main objectives: freedom of choice, improving pregnancy care and improving access to abortion care. I would very much like to hear from you that there is a lack of this at the moment. I'm really looking for objective data.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	What do you mean "deficit"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs Ellemeet, you say that the aim of the bill is to improve freedom of choice, access to abortion care and improve care around unwanted pregnancy. Those are three goals that, I presume, solve a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	Ah, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	What are the objective data showing that there is now a problem with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	I know what you mean. First of all, let me say that we have good abortion care in the Netherlands. The quality is good. No one here says we're dissatisfied with the quality of the abortion clinics. But the point is that women sometimes want to get this care with their general practitioner. This is evident from all women and civil society organisations that have expressed their views on this issue. With this, we provide for a wish from women. A lot of women want to go to a clinic, and it's very good that that's possible, that that choice is there. A large part of the aftercare, such as discussing the desired contraception and psychic aftercare, can be very well invested with the general practitioner. The general practitioner does this in part and of course also has access to the medical history of a woman. It may matter if you know what a woman has already been through and how she will experience having an abortion for that reason. It is precisely this knowledge and the fact that a woman's medical history is already at the doctor's office that can help to prevent further repeat abortions. So part of it already happens. Some of the aftercare is already in the doctor's office. With this initiative law, we want to make it possible for a general practitioner to be able to supervise the whole process, including the prescription of the abortion pill. We think we can reinforce that. The third point is to make abortion care accessible to women living in an environment where abortion is not accepted. The immediate proximity of a general practitioner is then a very great advantage. Let me give you an example. I heard about a woman who already has five children, who was pregnant with the sixth child and for whom it was unacceptable for her to have an abortion, when she really didn't want another sixth child. Because it was unacceptable for her husband, she couldn't easily make a long journey to an abortion clinic. Then her husband would ask, "Where did you actually go?" Then she'd have to answer for it. But she could go to her GP. The general practitioner can be of added value when it comes to accessibility and proximity to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	Before you proceed, first Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have the impression that the third objective that has just emerged, namely to help women who live in an environment where it may be a little more difficult to do an abortion, is added. I have not read it in the explanatory statement, but perhaps Mrs Ellemeet can tell me where it is. Can Mrs Ellemeet also back that up? How often does that happen, how many cases are there? I'd like to see some data on that. Or does it come from a feeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Stoffer rightly says that this is not the main objective. The main objective is freedom of choice. We have discussed this in detail in the explanatory memorandum. I have had a lot of conversations with general practitioners who have to do with, for example, young women who come to them. The example of the woman with the five children came from a strict Christian environment. Often they are also women from an Islamic environment, who are followed by their cousin or brother when they need care. These women sometimes end up in despair with their general practitioner and say: I can't go to a clinic and I want an abortion. These are the stories we know about this. There is no extensive study that quantifys how many women are involved. There are stories of general practitioners, often in large cities but also outside, who have to do with this in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thanks for the answer. This is exactly what I thought a little bit. I also hear a lot of stories about all kinds of things that are difficult and so on. But shouldn't you examine that very carefully first? And shouldn't you first have good data justification for how many cases it involves? Because every human being, both Mrs Ellemeet and I, lives in a certain bubble and hears stories that may fit in your own environment but which may be much smaller on the whole than you originally thought. So I specifically ask whether it wouldn't be wiser to leave this out and, if you think this is the case, to do some very good research first to have data under it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	We have a very comprehensive and careful legislative proposal in which we have sufficient guarantees of the quality of care. Given the way in which we now intend to organise abortion care with the general practitioners by means of good training and by means of directives, there is therefore no reason to doubt that the quality of care remains the same. In this sense, therefore, there is no qualitative disadvantage to this bill, which should lead you to examine it further. So we have sufficient data to support the added value of this bill and we have sufficient guarantees of its quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	Well, let me ask you my last question about this. I do not feel that this third objective has been so carefully examined and that there are all kinds of data underneath it. This has been done on the basis of a number of stories. How many stories is that? How many women is that about? And is there also an image of that for the whole of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	In this sense, of course, a lot of research has been done into cultures in which women are under pressure. These concern not only abortion but also the freedom of women. In this sense, there is, of course, more research into how women can be oppressed or restricted in their freedom. That also applies to abortion. But again, Mr Stoffer is right to say that the main objective of this initiative proposal is to increase women's freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	It is precisely on that last point, the freedom of choice of women, that I find it very poignant when a woman in these cultures does not see the talk about the unwanted pregnancy as a way out of this situation, but only sees the passage to the general practitioner as the only way out, in the hope that she can get an abortion there. There is, of course, a huge poignant world of freedom around it. I would like to challenge the proposers to reflect on this and to make it possible for these women to have real freedom of choice. What does that require of that general practitioner who's in that office, whether that's on the Veluwe or in Kanalen Island? It takes an enormous amount of advice from a general practitioner if a woman is in these unfree circumstances. I would like to see a broader reflection on this than just the route that Mrs Ellemeet just described on behalf of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	I can only agree with Mrs Bikker: of course it is important that we, as a country, work to ensure that all women can live freely. That goes beyond this bill, but that does not relieve us of the duty to do so. So I agree with Mrs Bikker. That goes beyond this bill. We will have to do everything we can to ensure that women are free, can make free choices and can be who they want to be. We need to engage in this discussion in all kinds of areas, whether it is about the study you want to do or the partner you want to choose. It affects so many areas. I agree with Mrs Bikker that we still have a long way to go before we get to the point where women are really free, including in our free country. So I agree with her. At the same time, we are now also faced with women who are unwantedly pregnant, who currently do not want a child and who seek help. We are concerned that we want to make that help possible for those women, even if they are unable to make a further journey to an abortion clinic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	But this aid is one-sided, because that is the abortion pill that can be provided by the general practitioner, and it will still be the case for some of these women in the term. I think we should also be real about this, including these districts and these places. I would find it so powerful, even if we do not agree on how you weigh this dilemma, if full freedom of choice is also the commitment of the progressive parties I see before me here. Then a woman who is stuck with her family can talk to her doctor about this, but also get a referral and get help to make the choice to keep that child on her own, although the family finds it a disgrace and all the brothers and the cousins are furious. And then the general practitioner can knock on the door of the municipality if there is no house, and she is not at the back of the housing association, so that the child would already be in school if there was even a house in the picture. How do the proposers see that? Otherwise, it is such a selective way of interpreting the freedom of choice of these women.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Bikker, quite frankly. A GP or an abortion doctor would, if a woman doubted... It's something else when a woman is 100 percent convinced and knows: I don't want this child. Then you just have to help a woman like that right away. But of course there are a lot of women, also from environments where they are less free, who themselves are genuinely doubting. Then it is very important that you indeed refer to a Fiom to have such a choice-help conversation. I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Bikker. We need to keep an eye on that. It is also part of good concern that that doubt is seen and addressed. What Mrs Bikker says about other facets, a home and other things, also transcends this law, I would say. But I do agree with her that we should keep that broad view, and that we have a shared ambition in it, whether you belong to a confessional party or a progressive party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you for those words, also about that ambition. My concern is that we have been saying this to each other for quite some time. Sometimes we have a slightly more polarized debate; you have seen that, I think, Mr President. But sometimes we get to that, because we all have a heart for women in an emergency. I am going to think about it myself, even during this answer: how can we actually take concrete steps to promote it? In any case, I would like to ask the initiators: please let this also be an element in the evaluation, so that general practitioners can reflect on it and also indicate what their request for help is in it, rather than just the question of whether access to an abortion pill is sufficient or not. We shall then think differently about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	If I listen carefully to Mrs Bikker, she actually says: there is also a need for a social debate on how people can make choices in freedom, even if something is complicated in your family. Again, that transcends this bill, I think, but I do agree with her that that is important. I'm also looking at the minister. Should we not also address this more broadly from our minister, or perhaps from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	A social debate still does not increase that freedom of choice within itself. If you did eventually choose a child and still go through the pregnancy, you'd encounter a lot of obstacles in the situations we were talking about at the beginning of the interruption for these women. Then it is important what also increases their freedom of choice to say in doubt: but I am going to do it anyway. At that point, I challenge the initiator. I also challenge the initiator to involve general practitioners. For it seems to me to be a very complicated conversation if you only see someone in despair, with all lions and bears on the road, and you can't refer properly, for example, whether it's breaking down in housing. Then general practitioners can give back what they're up against. Because we give general practitioners pretty complicated conversations if this law gets a majority. To them too, I think it is very important that you follow this and show that general practitioners can really be meaningful for a patient in full choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	Now I know what Mrs. Bikker means. It is about: if women do choose to carry out their pregnancy, how can they do so in a way that is pleasant and not all of them cause extra concern? It doesn't matter if it's a GP or an abortion clinic. In fact, abortion clinics often refer to general practitioners for post-care. So one could say: it is the practice of everyday life that general practitioners should also consider such questions in the post-care sector. But I understand Mrs Bikker's question. How can we support women if they do choose to carry out their pregnancy and the child?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	Sorry, sometimes you need a little more exchanges to understand each other. I appreciate us doing that. I am mainly concerned with the women who have doubts, who do not know it yet and who have to weigh both options. I happen to have lived in Utrecht, so I know the Channel Island situation. If you're in the situation that you know your family doesn't approve of it and that there's a lot of trouble coming out when this gets out. That's somehow getting the pregnancy over while there may still be doubt. Then how do you increase the freedom of choice, so that a girl or woman can come to a choice independently if she is in doubt and can choose to keep it, even if it will have powerful complex implications in terms of family? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	We now, of course, have organisations dealing with choice-help conversations. I think that these particular dilemmas are actually mainly in the hands of these organisations. So if there's any real doubt, an abortion clinic refers to such an organization that can help make the choice. The same goes for the family doctor. I'm just thinking out loud. We could perhaps also ask these organisations, such as Fiom, what they notice in the talks with these women, to what extent this is a decisive argument for women to choose whether or not to have an abortion and what we, as a government, could do to better support those women.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	Another "metapoint" was made about this initiative law by Mrs Palland and Mrs Westerveld. That was about the difference between the initiative law on the period of reflection and the initiative law on the abortion pill. They both underlined that these are essentially different laws. I would also like to underline that. I think they're right about that. The main difference is that this bill is about extending the freedom of choice with regard to the health care provider. The other initiative proposal concerns careful decision-making. The argument put forward by the initiators of the legislative proposal on the period of reflection is that the alleged guarantee of those five days does not contribute to the careful decision-making process. Freedom of choice with regard to the care provider or careful decision-making are, of course, fundamentally different things. I just wanted to confirm that that's true. That does not make the one proposal any more or less complex. It simply makes the proposals substantially different. I also think that groups will think differently about this and weigh the proposals in a different way. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second block, the balance sheet in the legislation. Of course, this balance in the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy is very important; it is perhaps at the heart of that law. A number of Members mentioned this: Mrs Hermans, Mrs Pouw-Verweij, Mrs Maeijer and Mr Ceder. If you look closely at the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, especially Article 5, you will actually see that four basic principles must ensure that this balance is maintained. The decision must be considered. The request for abortion must be voluntary and must be aware of the responsibility of women for unborn life. The doctor must find the request justified and act only in that way. There must also be sufficient aftercare. Our proposal aims to maintain this balance. That, of course, was also the criticism of the Council of State. For this reason I have distributed two A4's on which we show what the difference is between our original proposal and the first version of Article 6a is on the first page of the file and the second, final version. As you can see, the article has been substantially extended, precisely with these four points. We have therefore explicitly added these safeguards for this balance sheet to the article on accreditation. We have done so in order to make sure that there is no misunderstanding that this must be met if the general practitioner is to be able to provide this care in a careful and good way. Mr. Chairman. Then the careful performance by the GP. As I have just explained, this implementation guarantees that balance. There were questions from members Westerveld, Hermans and Ceder. It's actually about two things that are relevant. On the one hand, it is about ensuring quality in training and in directives. On the other hand, it is about the connection of this care with the general practitioner care in a broad sense. I want to start with the education and guidelines. Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Hermans also ask: what exactly is the situation with regard to education and guidelines? Let me start by saying that the provision of abortion care is not part of basic care. Every general practitioner must provide the basic care. There is no choice for the general practitioner, but the provision of the abortion pill will fall within the category of special care. Then the general practitioner can decide for himself whether he or she wants to provide that care. Other forms of special care include placing a spiral and making and reading a heart film, but also euthanasia, for example. So that's the category. Training is not compulsory for this particular category of care. It is therefore up to the general practitioner himself to determine whether he or she considers himself competent. If he or she doubts it, he or she opts for education. But we are making an exception for the provision of abortion care: it is the only one within that particular category of care that is required. The Dutch Family Doctors Society is going to make that education and is also responsible for the accreditation. There is already a concept training programme. This has been put together with abortion doctors and gynecologists, but recently the NHG has also written to the abortion doctors and the gynecologists, but also social work, Fiom and Rutgers, to further strengthen that concept training programme. A broad use is therefore going to be made of abortion care to get that training programme as far as possible. Then about the schools themselves: how does it work? This is organized regionally, together with an executive physician, abortion doctors and gynecologists. That local expertise will be taken into account. The big advantage of this is that these gynecologists, general practitioners and abortion doctors also meet at that training. This is important, because, of course, good care also involves cooperation. So it's good and important that you get to know each other better. Then the lines are shorter and more direct. That also improves the quality. Mrs Maeijer asked what would happen if a general practitioner did not meet those requirements. In that case, accreditation shall be withdrawn. That's done by the KNMG. It may not be necessary to say this here too, but if a general practitioner does not provide proper care in general, the general practitioner will receive an indication of the inspection. Worst-case scenario, of course, someone comes for disciplinary justice. So that will also apply here. Every healthcare professional in this room knows how important guidance and guidelines are for providing good care. These will also be made by the general practitioners. My suggestion is that the directive on abortion doctors should be used as a basis for drawing up the directive on general practitioners and that it should also be drawn up in conjunction with abortion doctors, gynecologists, social work and Fiom. Those directives can therefore be used by the monitoring inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	There is an interruption by Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	It's about skill. The SP is always very critical of the number of actions. We also had the discussion about child heart surgery. Of course, that was a completely different debate, but sometimes competence can also be related to the number of times you do an action or treatment. We have had extensive debates on this. Many general practitioners indicate: "I am willing to do this on my own. I think I could do it too, but I have great concerns that, after I have had that training and have that accreditation, I only do one or two abortions a year, or maybe even less, when a lot of general practitioners do that." Ability can become a problem if it doesn't occur so little. How do the proposers look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	This is also in line with the question of how this fits in with the general practice of general practitioners, which I come up with. The core of the general practitioner's work is, of course, the conversation between the doctor and the patient. They also often say about themselves: we are actually communication experts. The most important thing is that a doctor can also understand the questions behind the question. That is, of course, a very important part of this concern. Like I said, a lot of women come to the GP in the first place. Clinics even often refer back to the general practitioner, even for that conversation. In this sense, there is also confidence that the general practitioner can conduct the conversation properly. A large part of this aftercare is already with the general practitioners. If a woman has a spontaneous miscarriage, she also initially comes to the GP. In fact, if she has complications, which fortunately almost never occurs with an abortion pill, women also initially go to the general practitioner. What I cannot stress enough is that the GP is already working very intensively with specialists. For example, there is a miscarriage of a directive. That directive already states, of course, that in the event of certain complications, the general practitioner refers to a specialist. So a large part of that care is already embedded in the general practitioner care. You can also see it in very different forms of care. Remember: CPR, palliative sedation, but also euthanasia. These are forms of care that are not very common, but which are well invested with the general practitioner. So it is a combination of: both good education and how it fits in with the practice of the work of the general practitioner and a good collaboration with others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u38	That's a clear answer. Thank you for that. Then I have the next question, which remains above this debate. It's tricky. I also understand that you may not be able to give that answer at all. How many general practitioners really want to do this later? How many doctors would like to offer that abortion pill? To what extent is this really an improvement on current practice? There is still a real concern with us. Freedom of choice is important; I understand that. But what as a very small part of the general practitioners... I hear that Mrs Ploumen will come back to that. But what if only a very small proportion of the general practitioners will decide to do so, because this requires an investment, because it requires a lot of training and because they are already overburdened? Many general practitioners are already overburdened at the moment and have too little support. What happens if only a very limited number of general practitioners are willing to do so? What does that mean for freedom of choice? Don't you offer people something that might seem to be very little in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mrs Ploumen will go into this in such detail. In any case, let me say that some general practitioners, in certain neighbourhoods in large cities, I'll just mention that for a moment, but it can also be in other places in the Netherlands already relatively often have to deal with young women who are unwanted pregnant, so it is in part already the practice of general practitioners. Anyway, Mrs Ploumen will go into it so extensively. There were also questions about the difference between the licensing of clinics and the accreditation of general practitioners. What's the deal with that? The accreditation of the general practitioners is truly caring, so that is about that education and being competent, and the licensing of abortion clinics should take into account requirements for facilities of clinics, hygiene and complaints. So these are essentially mostly practical matters. For general practitioners such requirements apply, of course, only those invested in other laws, think of the Law BIG and the Wkkgz. There is also a directive on infection prevention. The practical requirements invested in the authorisation requirement for the clinics are thus contained in other laws for general practitioners. And the accreditation is really caring. As I said, in addition to training and directives, it is also important to link up with general practitioners in a broad sense. Mrs Pouw-Verweij, Mr Ceder, Mr Hijink, Mr Stoffer, Mrs Hermans and Mrs Westerveld also asked questions about this. I'd like to walk them by. It is, of course, about that careful choice, so it is voluntary and deliberate. It's about that conversation between the GP and the woman. So many of those conversations are already being held. As I said, the core of the general practitioner's field is perhaps good communication, good conversation and knowing what the real question is. We often talk about the concept of "decide together" in healthcare. If it happens in one place, it's in the doctor's office. That's where the decision is made. Slightly more than half of the women already go to the general practitioner in the first instance and have that conversation. We also know that a large proportion of women have already made the decision. For the women who are still in doubt, we have already seen in recent years that the GP helps in making a choice. So that's actually practice already. Then the subject of help with complications, with a miscarriage. It is good to mention that this is 2%. That's really not much, but it's important, of course. General practitioners are already doing that part of aftercare. These were also questions from the members Paulusma, Westerveld, Maeijer and Palland. General practitioners provide aftercare for women who have opted for an abortion pill as well as for spontaneous miscarriages. So there is already a miscarriage directive. The symptoms of women experiencing miscarriage, such as extreme dizziness, extreme blood loss and extreme cramps, are similar to spontaneous miscarriage and the complications that can occur with an abortion pill. So that's what general practitioners do in part. It is also good to realize that general practitioners are already part of that acute care chain. They already are. Then the wider aftercare. This is about the psychic relief and the prevention of repeat abortions. So that too is to a large extent in the family doctor's office. As I said, the medical history known to these general practitioners can help. If you have traumatic experiences, you can react differently to an abortion than if you don't have one at all. It's just nice that the GP knows that. It's also nice that your GP stays for a lot of years, because it can also be very good that it only plays after a long time, and then you have that medical history. So that can just help. But that is also true, for example, when it comes to contraception. A GP of course knows your history in that, so he knows what did and didn't work well and what you liked. In that conversation it is also beneficial that the general practitioner has that medical knowledge. Mrs Palland and Mrs Paulusma also asked if it could help to reduce the number of abortions. What I am actually trying to say is that it is therefore conducive to this. This is what I'm saying, if I go through all this: it's actually all very good, so education is unnecessary and not necessary at all? Absolutely not. For example, when it comes to women who have doubts, it helps general practitioners to have more handles on how and to whom to refer, such as to Fiom. Also giving additional information and knowledge about the provision of the abortion pill is very important and valuable. General practitioners say they want this on their own. So they take this seriously, too. If they want to do this, they want to do it right. Then there were a few additional questions about the general practitioner care. Mrs Maeijer asked whether the expectation would be that abortion would be easier if we allowed the general practitioner to provide that abortion pill. There's no reason to think that. In fact, in Sweden, for example, we see that from the moment that the abortion pill could also be provided by the general practitioner, the number of abortions decreased slightly. Mr Hijink and Mrs Pouw-Verweij have asked how the "trusted GP" is still working at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u40	First, an interruption by Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yes, in response to Mrs Ellemeet's reply to Mrs Maeijer's question. Studies in France and Sweden were also referred to in the first period. We went to take a look at it. The explanatory memorandum refers to two investigations, one from France and one from Sweden. We have tried to request the relevant articles. Now I can't read both languages very well and certainly Swedish is going to be very difficult for me, but we can't get them over the table, not even through the CIP. So my question is actually to what extent those claims are really true. So could Mrs Ellemeet go a little bit more into that? I actually had this question for Mr. Paternotte, who will do the scientific part. So if Mrs Ellemeet says that it fits better with that, I agree, but I would like to have an answer to that question because I have not been able to consult those sources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u42	That is what Mr Paternotte is about to prepare himself very well. I would have stuck to the point of that trusted GP. Mr Hijink also had the question whether young women often go to the general practitioner at all and whether there is a band at all. To begin with: young women also go to the GP; I remember that myself from when I was young. In any case, about 80% of young women go to the general practitioner every year. So there's definitely a connection between young women and their general practitioner. When it comes to that trusted general practitioner, you are free to ask for a specific general practitioner, even in a general practitioner's practice. I do that all the time myself. Then you'll have to wait a day or two at the most. But perhaps even more important is the fact that familiarity is not only in the person, but also in practice. You go to practice and you know they have your medical history, that they know you. It's close, it's literally, physically, also a trusted place. You know, so to speak, the one sitting at the front desk. So the familiarity is not only in the doctor, but also in the fact that that practice knows you and that you know that practice. That's why the GP is so popular and the GP practice is so popular with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u43	There is an interruption by Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u44	Excuse me, I'm going back a little in Mrs Ellemeet's answer. It's about the medical complications that can occur after treatment. I have not yet heard any reflection on a question put by Mrs Pouw-Verweij in the debate. I was ill last time, thankfully Mr Ceder replaced me, but I followed the debate in bed. So that's what I was thinking. This medication is used until now up to 45 days after the last menstruation, just to make it clear. The proposed legislation is designed to extend that deadline to 63 days. She had the fear, whatever I can imagine, that with that the chance of complications is really much greater. I am curious to see how the proposers will react to this or whether it will be returned to the reply in a later period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u45	I can say something about this already and perhaps colleagues can add to it. The number of complications that will increase was also her point. You are right, I remember now that she said it would happen a little more often. But it's not like the complications are changing. There are no other complications. It's a little more likely that you're suffering, like I said, from dizziness, cramps or severe bleeding. That's the difference. It's not like the nature of the complications changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think it's complicated, too, because I'm not a doctor. I do not want to make it more dramatic or more difficult than it actually would be. But my impression is that it is also more severe later on in pregnancy, because the break-off is also more severe. The Council of State even mentions figures on a follow-up to hospitalisation that may be necessary after such a complication. To be honest, I do not think that this answer is as precise as the seriousness of the matter deserves, because it is a superhero experience for women when you have made all this decision, which is intense. And then this comes after it. I think that every woman who, for example, has had to deal with a miscarriage, knows how intense that is anyway. So I would like to speak very precisely about this, also in the guidelines to the general practitioners, so that we know very well what the risks are, especially when the distance from a clinic or a hospital is large. It could be quite a result. I would be very afraid of that; let me put it this way, with all the restraint of a lawyer talking about medical matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u47	The general practitioners have a miscarriage directive. They do. They're working with that. In the first instance, women who have had an abortion and who then have complications often come to the general practitioner. It is indeed up to the general practitioner to properly assess whether he can provide that care himself or refer it to a specialist. That's what's gonna happen. There are cooperation agreements, links, between general practitioners and specialists, especially when this is the case. We should not talk about this lightly or trivially in any way, but it is about precision and good care. So if there are complications that are so serious that the general practitioner cannot treat himself, the general practitioner already refers to the specialist. It is precisely when it comes to these more serious complications that cooperation is already there. Even now, the women receiving the abortion pill, who are already going to the general practitioner at first, are being referred to a hospital and a specialist if it is really serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u49	One more time to be clear. With regard to the extension of the time limit for the delivery of an abortion pill, which was 45 years old and which will become 63 days with this initiative law, the initiators have well discussed the medical risk that this entails for women with the general practitioners. This will also be known in the directive, including with regard to the effects of medication. That is something else than, for example, a spontaneous miscarriage. I do want this to be really well figured out, regardless of what I think is basically that you make decisions further in pregnancy. But just medically, what happens to a woman, and the risks that a GP has for his patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yeah, sure. I can fully confirm that. It is being discussed, and a more extensive new directive is being made. So indeed, that current directive miscarriage is not enough. So it is certainly true that this needs to be tightened up even better, and that is what is going to happen. Then I'm almost done. Mr Ceder had asked whether we should not first improve the current practice before bringing the abortion pill to the general practitioner. Our point is precisely that we are trying to improve current practice through this initiative legislative proposal, i.e. better care, more accessible care for women. In that sense, this is also an objective of our legislative proposal, to further improve that concern. Finally, Mrs Palland has tabled an amendment on the evaluation. It certainly seems to me that with this amendment and with the adjustment of the period of reflection, it would be very useful to review the abortion law properly. We have now agreed to review the law in 2026 or 2027 when discussing the period of reflection. I would like to say that we, as proposers, agree with this and that a periodic evaluation would be desirable from that point on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u51	Then what is your appreciation of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u52	Positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u53	We are talking about the amendment to item No. 15. Mrs Palland also has an amendment to item No. 16, but that is probably going to give one of our colleagues an appreciation. Mrs. Palland, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr President, thank you for that. A word about the block of performance by the GP, which Mrs Ellemeet explained on behalf of the initiators. There is a great deal of attention to this training and expertise and to ensuring the quality in it. I think that is careful and that amendment of the law also sounds good. I do have a question about the practice, because I think it will be wider in practice than just the role of the general practitioner. So I wonder if Mrs Ellemeet is going to say anything about the woman's care route. This woman comes to the general practitioner, but then the term provision must also be done by means of an ultrasound, and I see that there is a reference to Mr Paternotte, who is probably going to say something about this, but if that is to be done at the midwife's practice, you should report back to another office. That may also be at the expense of anonymity. There may also be a need for medication. Does a woman have to go to the pharmacy and pick them up? Are you just gonna stand there at the front desk and talk about all kinds of consequences and do you have any questions about that? How does she see that trajectory, the woman's care route?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u55	Yes, Mr Paternotte is about to discuss this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u56	Then I'll just wait and see. Perhaps in addition to Mrs Bikker's questions, also in connection with Mrs Pouw-Verweij's contribution. I think I remember that indeed in 2015-2016 the Dutch Family Doctors Society also gave a reaction, that indeed the effectiveness of medical termination of pregnancy is greater and has fewer complications than with the shorter term, so that there is, of course, an increased chance of complications as the pregnancy progresses. It is important to ensure that this is done properly and to ensure that it is regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u57	Totally. That is why we need a new directive. So that is a different situation from the one we are currently in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u58	I think we've come to the end of Mrs Ellemeet's block, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u60	I had asked a question about conscientious objection, namely, Article 20 of the abortion law states that no one is obliged to cooperate in an abortion. I do not know whether this question belongs to Mrs Ellemeet or to one of the others. My specific question was: do we guarantee not only the GP but also the GP practitioners and pharmacists, so the whole chain behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u61	Sure. It is indeed a special concern. It is therefore in no way an obligation. It'll be secured, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u62	We'll clean quickly, then I'll give the floor to Mrs Ploumen. I would, of course, like to thank Mrs Ellemeet for her reply. I call Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Ellemeet said, it is a special day because we can address the questions raised in your Chamber in connection with our legislative initiative proposal to increase the freedom of choice of care providers for women when it comes to medical termination of pregnancy. An important question in this regard, which a number of Members have asked, is how general practitioners look at the initiative legislative proposal. Mrs Ellemeet has already indicated that we have often had contact with general practitioners on this initiative legislative proposal in recent years. Some research has also been carried out into the number of general practitioners who will choose to add this medical termination of pregnancy as part of the special operations to the help they can give to women. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with Mrs Pouw-Verweij's question, but also a number of others, about the recent position of the Dutch Family Doctors Society on this bill. We are pleased to note that there is broad support for this proposal from the general practitioners. The Dutch Family Doctors Society and the National Family Doctors Association have, as I said, been closely involved in the drafting of the bill. They have informed us that they support the bill, provided that it responds to questions that are competent in your Chamber to do so and that they have the freedom of choice, so I say explicitly to Mr Stoffer, in order to carry out this action. Both elements are well regulated in our legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. To address the questions very precisely, I would like to quote the position of the National Family Doctors Association and the Dutch Family Doctors Society, also to reassure a number of Members of Parliament. "The LHV and the NHG agree with the proposal to legally allow the medical termination of pregnancy for general practitioners. General practitioners are able to provide the abortion pill safely and effectively provided that they are competent to do so, as the NHG has already ruled in 2016. If the initiative law is adopted, the general practitioners' organisations consider that the provision of the abortion pill should not be covered by the basic offer of general practitioners, but by the so-called special offer." Mrs Ellemeet was just talking about that. "That is to say: it is up to the general practitioner whether or not he offers the abortion pill, on the basis of medical-material (competence), ethical or practical objections." Mr. Chairman. In addition to the expertise required to offer the medical termination of pregnancy, it is of course also relevant to discuss whether general practitioners have sufficient time to do so. Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Kuik asked. As I said, there is broad support among the general practitioners for this bill. A limited number of women are likely to report for this treatment per GP. I'm just gonna play that with a couple of numbers. In today's practice 51% of women turn to the general practitioner in the first instance when it comes to a desire to terminate pregnancy. It is therefore, in part, a task that general practitioners already perform. Mrs Ellemeet also spoke just now about the after-care that general practitioners do. We have therefore decided, on the advice of and in consultation with NHG and LHV, that this is also possible in practice for general practitioners who will indicate that they wish to enable this treatment for women. Again, that is because they are already talking to women about a possible wish for pregnancy termination. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maeijer had questions about that too. She specifically pointed out an article in Trouw in which two general practitioners express their concerns. That document, I would just like to say to Mrs Maeijer, raises practical objections, but also raises more fundamental arguments against the delivery of the pill. Of course, these general practitioners are also free to do so. They write that the average GP is likely to see two or three unintentional pregnant women per year. That's an average. Once again, the National Family Doctors Association and the Dutch Family Doctors Society put themselves in the position that these women, of course, deserve the best possible care, that general practitioners already see women for the care and aftercare and that it should be possible for the general practitioner in that context, if the general practitioner chooses to do so, to offer this treatment and the care that goes with it. Mr. Chairman. There were several questions, from Mr Stoffer, Mr Hermans and Mr Hijink, about how many general practitioners...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mrs Hermans, yes. I was put on the wrong foot for a moment because it was about Mr Stoffer and Mr Hijink, but of course it is about Mrs Hermans. They asked for an estimate of the number of general practitioners who will be willing to perform this treatment. This assessment is surrounded by some uncertainty, but a number of studies have been carried out, in 2015 but also more recently, which can give us a clue. The first study is a survey conducted by the Dutch Family Doctors Society in 2015. At that time 62% of the participating general practitioners indicated that they were neutral or positive towards the provision of the abortion pill in their practice. 38% was negative. Those numbers, which are estimated, are confirmed by a more recent study by Women on Waves carried out last year and about which, among other things, NRC recently reported. That research is still in the preview phase, but confirms the number of general practitioners who would be willing to provide an abortion pill as we saw in the previous study. That would amount to about 60%. The real willingness in practice is, of course, partly dependent on the quality and accessibility of the additional training that is needed and which will also be offered, the administrative burden that may be involved and the demand of women for treatment. I will say something about this administrative burden later, because we have, of course, had intensive discussions with NHG and LHV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u66	That most recent research that NRC cited I take a little bit with a grain of salt, I have to say quite honestly, because that research is not representative. Most of the participants came from Utrecht and Noord-Holland. I just took a look at it. The proportion of female general practitioners is significantly higher if you look at the whole population of general practitioners. I do not want to say at all that it is different, but I simply do not feel that it has been a good representative study. From other research, also from the research we did ourselves as SP, I am not going to do anything about it, because it is not representative either, I have the impression that it is fifty-fifty. Half of them say, "I'm willing to do it." The other half says: we are actually seeing great objections. Apart from what the exact figures are: does Mrs Ploumen think that the proposers, half/half or 60/40, find sufficient basis? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u67	Of course, we've been looking into that as well. We have considered that to be sufficient basis. That will not surprise Mr Hijink. We are, of course, also strengthened by the positive judgment of the Dutch Family Doctors Society and the National Family Doctors Association. Of course, we have considered whether this is sufficient to say that this is actually an increase in women's freedom of choice for a health care provider, which is the objective of our law. We felt that this was the way we should judge. To quantify it to Mr.Hijink: there are about 12,000 general practitioners in the Netherlands. If, with Mr Hijink, we make a cautious estimate of the bandwidth and say that it is about 30% to 60%, then that amounts to about 4,000 to 8,000 general practitioners. On this basis, we have considered that the objective of increasing women's freedom of choice is being respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Hijink? No. Mrs Hermans of the VVD also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u69	I remember an interrupting debate from the first period of this debate between me and Mr Hijink, which was precisely on this point. Is an exact number or percentage of general practitioners who are in favour of this the decisive reason? Or is it decisive that a general practitioner considers himself sufficiently competent, trained and able to perform this particular kind of care for a number of reasons? As far as I'm concerned, that last one's first. That's what my question is about. A large part of the general practitioners are positive about this, but some of them have not yet made a choice or have not yet made a choice. My first question to Mrs Ploumen is: is there any idea of what this more negative approach or attitude is based on in this group of general practitioners? Then there's my second question. Also of the general practitioners who are positive about the provision of this kind of care, a very large proportion of them say that they do not yet consider themselves well-educated. How does Mrs Ploumen view that, in the light of the importance of a careful process?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u70	With Mrs Hermans' approval, I shall first address her last question. Mrs Hermans is right. In the research carried out among general practitioners and in fact also in the qualification of the opinion of the National Family Doctors Association and the Dutch Family Doctors Society, it is said: if I am willing to do this treatment, then I must feel as a general practitioner myself sufficiently qualified to do so. We are not surprised by the fact that some of the general practitioners explicitly state that they have a need for training, a need for further training or a need for further training. On the one hand, in their practice, general practitioners are used to having conversations with women who report with a possible desire to terminate pregnancy. That part of the counseling and treatment, if you like, is well known. However, this initiative proposal aims to make the abortion pill available through the general practitioner. We are putting forward this proposal because it is not yet possible. In my humble opinion, which is shared by the co-subsidiaries, it would have been rather surprising if the general practitioners had said: we can deal with this immediately. Precisely because general practitioners also want to act very carefully and patient care is of course number one and they realize that this new operation, which they may be able to perform, also requires additional knowledge. That is why we have made provision for this. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the reasons why general practitioners may not want to give the abortion pill to women who have desire. It ranges from practical objections to more moral-ethical objections, which we discussed earlier. As far as the proposers are concerned, it is very important that we also leave the freedom to general practitioners to do so or not. On the other hand, we must make every effort to ensure that general practitioners feel supported in their desire to provide the best possible care for women.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you for this comprehensive and clear answer. I fully agree with Mrs Ploumen and the proposers that it should be a free choice for the general practitioners to offer this kind of care. I wonder if we also know what the reason is that a group of general practitioners is still doubting whether it is yet to be sure. Are there any other possibilities from the legislative proposal to provide support and continuing training to turn that doubt into: we want to offer this kind of care, of course with the right form of training?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u72	Without wishing to speculate too much, I think it is a good thing that we all realise that this is part of a well-known area for general practitioners, because half of the women report to the general practitioner, but some of it is also unknown. General practitioners will also want to know for sure that the lack of knowledge they have at the moment is sufficiently overtaken by the way in which this lack of knowledge, if I may put it so domestically, is "reached'. The general practitioners will also want to know that the directive that will be developed should the initiative legislative proposal, which we hope will be adopted, provides more support in determining the accuracy of the use of treatment. They will therefore wish to feel supported in this. Undoubtedly, some of the general practitioners will continue to judge that they do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u73	I appreciate Mrs Ploumen's answer that she mentions the freedom of general practitioners to make a choice. I can also imagine the hesitation because it is also about the deadline. That's a medical procedure that a general practitioner normally doesn't do with an ultrasound machine. I would also like to know whether this is going to be discussed further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr Paternotte will go into this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u75	Then I'll just stay curious about that. I have one other question. In the first term, the Christian Union Group has said that there will be areas where general practitioners regularly experience this. They will therefore have experience in how you conduct such a conversation and know what it takes to do this right. But in the light of the calculations, it is also reasonable that it occurs only once or twice a year for a whole number of general practitioners. How can you guarantee that a general practitioner can deliver the quality that Mrs Ploumen has so underlined in previous contributions to this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u76	That is a good and fair question. There are two aspects to this. One is the intrinsic desire of general practitioners to give their patients the best possible care. This means that there is also a need from GPs, as I mentioned earlier, to increase their knowledge and expertise, in addition to the expertise and experience they may already have with talking to women about a possible termination of pregnancy. This is just as separate from the number of conversations or treatments they provide for in their practice. If that number of treatments is relatively limited, then general practitioners must be sufficiently supported by guidelines and the further training they will receive. I would also like to say to Mrs Bikker that the general practitioner himself is often the best assessor of what may be needed to give that good care to patients. Even if the number of treatments is relatively limited, the initiators therefore consider that there is sufficient assurance of that quality. Again, we feel supported by the Dutch Family Doctors Society and the National Family Doctors Association.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u78	To be honest, I think this is a very vulnerable part of the legislative proposal, precisely because it demands a lot from general practitioners for something that is very rarely encountered. The abortion clinics point to that, too. You say it's about quality. I would like to ask the initiators how they expect the inspection to monitor this precisely, so not only at the front, I understand all the support to the general practitioners, but also how the inspection with so many more general practitioners can ensure that the quality is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u79	On the one hand, I am keen to meet Mrs Bikker in her concern about the quality of care. I also do nothing about the regular work of the inspection. Again, there is also an amendment tabled by Mrs Palland. The Minister will also discuss how we evaluate implementation practice when this bill is adopted. On the other hand, I would also like to say to her that the general practitioner is very competent in assessing what is needed for optimal care for patients. The general practitioner will not take it lightly here either that he or she knows it, but will be keen to look into it and put the care of the patients first. In my opinion, the monitoring of the quality of care in the Netherlands is well organised. That will be no different for the practice that follows from this bill, if it is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u80	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. There were also a number of questions about what this initiative proposal now means for abortion care in general. Mr Hijink asked about this, among other things, as did Mrs Palland, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Westerveld. There may be a consequence of the financial continuity of care provided by abortion clinics. I do not want to tire your Chamber with endless series of numbers, but I would just like to give you a brief overview of how we have assessed this. We believe that the continuity of abortion care should be maintained as a whole. That is the starting point. In fact, we believe that women's freedom of choice for a health care provider should be increased, but of course we do not want this to affect the accessibility of abortion services in general. We have ruled that continuity is guaranteed. As I have said, I would like to take the House into consideration. As it is now, 50% of women already go to the GP for a first talk about a possible pregnancy break-up. If this bill is adopted, as we hope, and we assume that some of these talks will result in a medical termination of pregnancy carried out by the general practitioner, then the financial consequences are relatively small. That has to do with the following. Three consultations are needed in medical termination of pregnancy at the GP. The first and the third consultation are already covered by the Health Insurance Act. If we take the band from 30% to 60% of the general practitioners who are going to do so, the third additional consultation would be up to 5,000 treatments on an annual basis. That would amount to about €250,000 in costs for the general practitioners. The abortion clinics will undoubtedly do fewer treatments. That was also a concern of Mr Hijink. On the basis of the calculations, we assume that the clinics could lose some EUR 2.2 million in income, just to put it bluntly. This is related to a total budget of EUR 18.1 million. That is the size of the grant made available by the VWS Ministry. We believe that this guarantees the continuity of care. However, we ask the Minister to monitor this carefully. That is in line with Mrs Palland's amendment, which we, as proposers, are in favour of. We have weighed this and are convinced that the quality and accessibility of the overall chain of abortion care will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u82	As Mrs Ploumen now describes it, I see it more as an estimate, an indication based on figures, of what the consequences could be for the clinics we now have. Does the authors, Mrs Ploumen, agree with the SP that certain guarantees are needed from the cabinet so that this reduction in income of more than 10%, if I hear that correctly, will not be at the expense of the number of locations that we now have, and that this should perhaps mean that the Minister should come up with a different form of funding? Perhaps there should be availability funding; I do not know how. In any case, the consequence of this bill should not be, not now but not in three years' time, that people in Drenthe, Limburg, Brabant or anywhere else have to travel much further to get to an abortion clinic. That's where our biggest concern lies. As far as we are concerned, a 10% reduction in the budget should not lead to a reduction in the number of clinics. I would be happy if the proposers were to say the same thing and ask us for that guarantee from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr Hijink is right: these figures are based on indications. I would like to tell him that we have understood these indications quite widely, in order to have a clear view of possible consequences. In all honesty, I expect in any case to have a look at the other proposers that a possible shift, certainly in the early years, will be less extensive. This has to do with the fact that general practitioners will not immediately do the extra training and so on: all the considerations we have just mentioned. The proposers, with Mr Hijink, therefore ask the Minister to monitor and remain in conversation with the clinics and the general practitioner's association to ensure that access to clinics for women is maintained. We have confidence in that on the basis of these figures. But we'll ask the Minister to monitor that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u84	This doesn't go far enough for me. I hear Mrs Ploumen say very emphatically: "We are going to monitor that. We're confident. We do not now have the suspicion that within now and a few years a huge number of abortions will suddenly take place with general practitioners." I think that's true. That will then have to build up steadily. I think we need to get one step further today. I think we can ask the Minister to do the following. The distribution of clinics that is now in place is already quite fragile. In some regions, you have to travel a long way to get to an abortion clinic. Looking at the number of locations that are there now, we do think it is important that at least there is not going to be any less. We should be able to meet today, right? Surely we must also have a promise from the Minister that it will remain so now and in the coming years? Otherwise, this bill could really have the wrong effect. We have to watch for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u85	I'm gonna go through the steps a little more precisely. Mr Hijink and I agree on the number of medical treatments, on the assessment that they still need to materialise. That's one. Two. The proposers, with Mr Hijink, believe that accessibility should be maintained. Three. We will certainly ask the Minister to monitor this carefully. We ourselves, as spokesmen in this area, will certainly be open to keeping a sharp eye on signals in the coming years. Four. We are, of course, also open to it, and we tell the Minister that the funding system may need to be adapted if necessary. But once again, we believe that monitoring, not only for the first year, but also for the coming years, must be careful and precise in order to prevent what Mr Hijink fears. Because of course the proposers do not want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u87	Then it's just monitoring. Monitoring is monitoring what happens that might lead to intervention. This is different from today's legal treatment, saying that a shift from part of abortion care to the general practitioner should not lead to a reduction in the number of clinics. Surely that is a commitment that we must have from the Minister? 'Cause he's gotta do it eventually. But I also think that this should be an agreement that the Chamber should be able to make with the authors of this law. This is because a shift, however large it may be in the end, should under no circumstances lead to a reduction in the number of sites where abortion care is now provided. This is very important for the SP. I would find it pleasant and important that the proposers go beyond just monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u88	Once again, Mr Hijink and the proposers agree that access to care must be maintained. Part of the abortion care currently provided by the clinics is possibly done by general practitioners in the coming years. That means that nothing changes when it comes to non-medical abortion aid. So that is a guarantee that Mr Hijink and the proposers are looking for. This obviously has to do with the robustness of the funding for abortion aid. So also the proposers, with Mr Hijink, assume that the number of clinics remains the same. Monitoring means for the proposers that is what we will also ask the Minister to follow closely. If there is any indication that this accessibility will be under pressure, the proposers with Mr Hijink will be the first to say to the Minister that, for example, there should be an adjustment of the funding. I therefore believe that Mr Hijink and the proposers are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u89	Have you come to the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u90	I have one more question from Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u91	First, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u92	I don't like it. As far as I'm concerned, it's not hard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u93	That is what you said, and the author has also given a comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u94	Yes, that's right, but a comprehensive answer is not necessarily the answer that reassures me. That's why I'm gonna ask you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u95	That's not necessarily the answer you want. That's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u96	Yes, a comprehensive answer is good. That's what we like. I remember this author from the time she was a minister. That's when I was at this desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u97	And you thought, "That's not gonna happen to me again."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u98	So I'm gonna keep an eye on her. Surely we should be able to agree that the number of locations we have now is not going to decrease? I think that's an agreement we should be able to make. You do this by monitoring and keeping an eye on this, but we must be able to agree that the number of locations that we now have will be maintained, regardless of what proportion of abortion care will or will not go to the general practitioners. I hope we can reach that agreement today. Otherwise, we're gonna file a motion to record that appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u99	What else do you want to know about the petitioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u100	Whether the petitioner wants to make that appointment with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u101	I am trying to narrow it down first, and I hope that Mr Hijink sees it as a relief to his concerns. The proposers provide, on the basis of indications that we have carefully weighed the number of clinics and the accessibility of care, with this proposal being increased and not reduced. I think that's one point. The second point is that we believe that the funding system of the clinics vis-à-vis the possibilities that we now offer to general practitioners to prescribe the abortion pill should not lead to less access to care in the coming years. We're just agreed on that, too. We do not foresee it and we do not want it. That is why we ask the Minister to monitor this carefully. We also point out that, should there be cause for concern, we are naturally open to it and will insist that the funding of the clinics should be adjusted. I think that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u102	Yeah, or it's gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u104	The other way around, I have a different concern. We have also seen abortion clinics go bankrupt in recent years, simply because the policy was not in order there. I do not think it should be the case that, because of this.... in the definition of the proposers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I would therefore also like to consider this to the authors. In Mrs Ploumen's second answer, I heard more points of reference in this respect for the ability to provide good care and its accessibility. It seems to me that this is precisely what is intended and not so much the number of clinics. To be honest, I would be worried if that financial disclaimer was now hidden in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u105	In the view of the proposers, the accessibility of the abortion care of women in the Netherlands is also linked to a certain regional distribution and the number of clinics where women can go. We're not doing anything about that. That doesn't add up, but it has something to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u106	Then I would like to thank Mrs Ploumen for her comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u107	Excuse me, may I just answer one more question? I have one more question from Mrs Paulusma. She had a question about the design of the financing system in general practitioners' practice. We have thoughts on this, namely that the caregivers can declare the medication to the insurer, because the consultants are already covered by basic insurance. In this way, the caregivers can declare the medication to the VWS Ministry, via the subsidy system that is now in place. There is no doubt that the Minister will say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you. There is another amendment by Mrs Palland. Is one of the proposers going to appreciate that? That is the amendment to item No. 16, about the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u109	We'll do that in second term, I think, because that just came into our house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u110	Ah, all right. Then I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then we move on to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u111	I give the floor to Mr Paternotte for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is exactly a month since the House of Representatives voted by a large majority for the removal of the mandatory period of reflection and the transition to a flexible period of reflection, a law that is now under discussion in the Upper Chamber. Today we are gathered here to discuss another proposal that changes the Law of Abbreviation pregnancy. It is remarkable that two legislative changes are being dealt with in a short space of time. On the other hand, it has been since 1984 that two substantive amendments to the Law on Abruption pregnancy have been dealt with. But in both cases it's special. With regard to these applicants, it is also a contribution to the position in which a woman has freedom of choice and can make a careful decision, in freedom and accessibility. I turn to questions about scientific research, about which some questions have just been raised in the exchange between Mr Stoffer and Mrs Ellemeet. I will also address the questions of medical care. First of all, let me address the question put by Mr Stoffer to Mrs Ellemeet: what exactly is the basis for the statement that the introduction of the abortion pill to the general practitioner does not lead to an increase in the number of abortions? Mr Stoffer was somewhat modest about his language skills and his mastery of French and Swedish, but I know that he is deliberately modest as a very gifted engineer. He referred, we think, at least, to the two articles mentioned in the explanatory memorandum when discussing them. That is the investigation of Karin Siljevall, Språkvetenskap i praktiken, and Christophe Vayssière et al. In both cases, he said he was looking for those articles. The French study was published in 2018 in the European Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Reproductive Biology. In principle, that should be just a request from the CIP. We have checked whether these same data are also available in a source without a payment wall. That's the case. These are the figures from 2018 from the French Ministry of Health, published by La Direction de la recherche, des études, de l'évaluation et des statisticiques. It states that there is a special stability in the number of abortions in France. Since 1990, this figure has always been between 215 000 and 230,000. This is mentioned in an article in the Le Monde: une étonnante stabilité des interactions de volontaires de grossesses. So a special stability. During this period is the introduction, in 2004, of the possibility to obtain an abortion pill from the general practitioner. This is now possible with almost all French general practitioners. There's no increase in that. We note with Mr Stoffer that Siljevall's Swedish research has now disappeared behind a somewhat inscrutable payment wall. It was included in the first version of the bill in 2018. Fortunately, we were able to find the same data in other studies, which are public and open-source, namely the Guttmacher Institute, in Jones et al. 2002: Mifepristone for Early Medical Abortion: Experiences in France, Great Britain and Sweden. It included that between 1990 and 1999 the number of abortions among women aged 15 to 44 in Sweden was still 21 in 1990 and fell to 18 in 1999. In 1991 the introduction of the abortion pill in Sweden was obtained from the GP. If Mr Stoffer wishes to do so, I suggest that we distribute the article from Le Monde and the Guttmacher Institute's research. I see he appreciates that. That is the advantage of working with four parties: we can use excellent support, so we're going to see if we can do that for you. Mr. Chairman. A number of members have asked how many women are expected to use medical treatment in the general practitioner. That was a question from Mrs Maeijer, Mrs Hermans and Mr Stoffer, among others. We would like to point out that, as far as we are concerned, it is not the aim that women should go to the general practitioner as far as possible for the option of medical termination of pregnancy. We believe that there should be a choice between pills or instrumental treatment. There is also a choice whether they will receive this treatment in the clinic or hospital, or whether they prefer to go to the general practitioner. The option of the GP would be added. In our view, this improves accessibility. This also makes it difficult to determine how many women will make use of this option. As far as that goes, you're making a prediction. We do see that more than half of the women, a small majority, go to the GP before they are referred. That says something about where they want to have the first conversation. Here too, we can look at the countries around us where the abortion pill in primary care is available. In France again, 21% of abortions are carried out in urban areas without a visit to the clinic or hospital. In non-urban areas, this percentage is 33%. In Sweden, this figure is much higher, at 93%. In 93% of all abortions, therefore, an abortion pill is obtained from the general practitioner. It is true, however, that medical termination of pregnancy is the preferred method in Sweden and that instrumental termination of pregnancy really only takes place if there is a medical need to do so. That explains why the figures in Sweden are different. This makes us more comparable to the French situation. In the Netherlands, two thirds of women currently prefer instrumental treatment. Given the figures from France and the preference as we know them today, it is conceivable that between one fifth and one third of the pregnancy breaks could go through medical termination prescribed by the general practitioner. Well, that's just in the long run. In France, almost all general practitioners can prescribe this treatment. The question is of course to what extent general practitioners in the Netherlands are going to do the same. It is up to the general practitioners themselves to make that choice. That is a clear difference with France. In the beginning, therefore, it will not be on those percentages, but it could eventually become the situation. Mrs Maeijer asked about the decreasing percentage of women referred to by the GP. We note with Mrs Maeijer that there is indeed a slight decrease in the proportion of women referred to by the general practitioner. We don't have a direct explanation for that. It is true that general practitioners are increasingly working together in health centres. In several cases it is so, with the romantic image of the general practitioner as a trusted person close by, that you have different general practitioners at the same time. The starting point of this law is that the woman can choose. As far as we are concerned, this relationship does not make any difference in principle. We do think it is good to monitor this development as well. We would also ask the Minister to do so and also to see what could possibly be the explanation for the fact that women are indeed going to the clinic a little more directly. Mr. Chairman. I have therefore dealt with a number of questions relating to the scientific research underlying the legislative proposal. Then I come to the questions about medical care, and specifically the cooperation between general practitioners and other providers of first and second-line care. Many questions have been asked about this, including Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Pouw-Verweij, Mr Hijink, Mrs Westerveld, Mrs Palland and Mr Ceder. A number of members asked whether general practitioners themselves should have echo equipment. Mr Hijink also specifically asked for this in exchange with Mrs Ellemeet. That is not necessary, because general practitioners already have good partnerships with first- and second-line care for the determination of the term; for example, the hospital or first-line diagnostic centres. There are many other complaints that the general practitioner refers to for an echo; think of bowel complaints, shoulder complaints or a swollen gland in the neck. These are all things for which you need an echoscopist, but not necessarily a referral to the hospital is needed. This echocopos may therefore indicate to the general practitioner the time limit for pregnancy and whether there is a medical risk, such as an extrauterine pregnancy, where a medical route is likely to have been indicated earlier. So this is about local centers that aren't in the hospital. These will also often be health centres within which general practitioners already work together. If you have a health center in which several GPs are located, then it can be a smaller step to choose to make the ultrasound available at home than if you are a GP with a small practice in a small village. That will indeed be different, but in all these cases there are those alternatives. If a woman so wishes, an echo may also be made in an obstetric practice. This was also a question that Mrs Pouw-Verweij and Mrs Palland asked: what about anonymity when women have to go to midwife practice for an ultrasound? In the end, this is something that determines the woman and the general practitioner in conversation with each other. It is only good to know that there are therefore always alternatives to this course of practice in midwifery, because there are diagnostic centres where ultrasound is available, and because it is sometimes available within a health centre itself and may also be referred to another general practitioner within a health centre, where ultrasound is available. So yes, this will always be a conversation. It is therefore not the case that the general practitioner will have to obtain these diagnostics himself because of this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u113	There is an interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u114	I understand very well that most general practitioners will not do the echoes themselves, especially if they do so only a few times a year. I do think it means something to the expectations that women may have of this proposal. It'll do something with that. If you say that we are moving part of abortion care to the general practitioners, and then you still have to go to a clinic, hospital or midwife practice for that term echo, then that whole idea of accessibility and accessibility will of course take a bit off. You still have to go to another healthcare professional and you may still have to go to the hospital for that echo, while the suggestion is of course a little awakened that you are actually done with a visit to the GP. Perhaps it is also good to communicate clearly that this is not the case in most cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u115	We think it is good to communicate clearly anyway that this is, of course, never a simple situation. An unwanted pregnancy is always a complex situation. So an echo can show that the time limit within which that medicinal pregnancy break-up would be possible has already passed. That echo can show that there's an extrauterine pregnancy. There may be all kinds of things that have not been pointed out at the time by the GP. Eventually it is already the case that the majority of women go to the GP for that first conversation because that is the most accessible form of care we have available and in many cases the GP can also be a trusted person for people. They don't do that now in the expectation that the doctor can do the treatment. You are quite right that it is important not to give the impression later that in all cases this treatment can be carried out through the general practitioner, because of course there are conditions, as the few I have just mentioned. At the same time, I also wonder whether this is going to be the expectation of people, because, of course, it is known that the general practitioner is a contact point for many kinds of care, but one often needs other caregivers to be able to provide that care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u116	I am more concerned with the point that the route via the GP is presented as a rather good alternative to the route to the clinic, also from the thought that you will have to travel less, that you can go to the familiar doctor, which is all very good arguments, but that in this new situation you might still find yourself with an anonymous doctor or nurse who will do the ultrasound with you. So it's not like you're actually done visiting the GP. In this sense, for a lot of women, the difference may well be a little less. So you will still end up with other caregivers because you have to do that term echo. That is the point I am trying to make, namely that the difference will then be reduced. It's not like it's done with the GP right away. No, there's still a whole stretch to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u117	In itself, I think that Mr Hijink makes justified comments, where, of course, if you would like to find alternatives to that, you should say that you want every general practitioner to get that ultrasound. We do not see this as feasible, nor do we see it as desirable for general practitioners to do so. It is, of course, the case that health centres choose to do so more often because there are already several general practitioners there and it is practically possible to do so. Only, we do not have the ambition to change anything with this bill. This may be a limited additional reason for a health centre to say: we also want to bring these diagnostics into the house. But we do not have the idea that it is wise to put extra pressure on that because of this legislative proposal, because this should ultimately be a choice for the general practitioners themselves and because the standing practice is that for a whole set of complaints the general practitioner will have to refer to that ultrasound and that it is available in diagnostic centres. This can sometimes be a midwife's practice in this case, but that is no different in itself than with many other conversations about complaints that a doctor has for which he will need another health care professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point, Mrs Palland asked what happens in the event of complications. She has just asked some questions about this and Mrs Ellemeet has also answered them. So it is true that within the care chain that has to do with termination of pregnancy, the general practitioner plays an important role in this psychosocial assistance, but also in the discussion afterwards on how to prevent repeated unwanted pregnancy and how contraception can play a role in this. But also in the case of a miscarriage, the general practitioner soon shows up, partly because a gynecologist has fixed working hours and has an abortion clinic opening hours. Then it is the general practitioner, or the general practitioner's post, where you will end up first in the evenings and on the weekends. So yes, this applies to the largest number of hours of the week in case there are complications. Mrs Hermans and Mrs Pouw-Verweij asked about the guarantees of quality of care when the abortion pill is made available to the general practitioner. Mrs Hermans specifically asked about the possible fragmentation of care in the event of termination of pregnancy. Mrs Ellemeet has, of course, already mentioned the accreditation of general practitioners to provide this additional care. She also addressed the questions about training. That is also where we see that close cooperation will be needed between the standing abortion care and the general practitioner. Occupational groups and other field parties will also have to work together, for example to adapt the different guidelines that exist in the field of treatment and guidance in the event of termination of pregnancy. As far as we are concerned, this is also an important part of combating this fragmentation. Mrs Paulusma also said in the first term that the GP already plays an important role in the quality of care and aftercare in breaking down the brother-in-law. That is what I have, of course, already partly dealt with. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs. Kuik asked what happens if a doctor is not willing to prescribe the abortion pill. Let me stress that most general practitioners indicate that they are prepared to provide the abortion pill, only that some do not feel qualified for it at the moment. That's where the education comes in, but it's important to make it easier for general practitioners to do this. For the general practitioners who do not want to do it after this, the process remains exactly as it is now, namely that you refer to. So if a woman reports to the GP, the GP can enter the conversation and eventually there is a referral. So that may be to the clinic, but that may also be to another GP later. This is also in line with Mrs Hermans' question of how general practitioners communicate to women whether they prescribe the abortion pill. The moment when a woman reports to the doctor with the request for help is also when the doctor can indicate whether he is providing this care. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Pouw-Verweij also asked about the overtime treatment. There are a number of general practitioners who have given the overtime treatment in the form of a pilot. Actually, that's exactly the same treatment, but of course there's the difference that this overtime treatment runs to six weeks and two days, while this bill makes it possible to prescribe the abortion pill up to nine weeks. There is no difference in side effects. However, the medication should be administered in a certain way and the effects of treatment should be monitored within the first few hours. This will also have to be considered in continuing training. Mrs Palland asked whether it would be appropriate to set up a pilot to gain experience before this country policy becomes national policy. We are going to go into the amendment tabled by Mrs Palland, which is very much in line with that question. We do have two reservations about this. First of all, general practitioners already show that the overtime treatment can be given safely. We also see in international research that the delivery of the abortion pill can lead to safe and effective care in the first place. I can then refer to the practices in France and Sweden, but also in Canada and the United States, for example, this happens in the same way or sometimes even more easily. In those countries it is often also possible to receive the abortion pill by post. That's something we wouldn't want. This was also widely exchanged in the first term. So there are countries that have experience with this variant or with even more low-threshold availability. However, we see that it is important to properly monitor the implementation of this law. General practitioners cannot, of course, all accredit themselves directly. In the roll-out it seems very sensible to keep the finger firmly on the wrist. If there are unexpected signals that additional knowledge and skills are needed, the Minister can act quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u120	I had previously asked a question about the care route that the woman has to take when she arrives at the GP. I hear Mr Paternotte saying how it goes when there is an echo to be made. That's clear. It is not quite clear to me whether the doctor will actually give the medication or whether it will go through the pharmacy. Then there will be another window, perhaps also with discussions at the counter about consequences etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u121	There are two times when the medication needs to be taken. The first moment indeed takes place with the GP, because it also follows direct monitoring. For the second moment, medication is indeed being picked up at the pharmacy. Because it is prescribed medication, which is prescribed by the doctor after which you go to the pharmacy with the prescription, there is no further discussion. The doctor indicates when the second medication moment should take place and how it should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u122	You get the second set of medication you need to take, so don't go with the GP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u123	No. This is, of course, in the division of tasks between a general practitioner and a pharmacy that we have set up in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u124	Clear. Perhaps you will come back to my amendment later, but I have a number of questions, especially about what this means in practice. I hear Mr Paternotte saying that it is already happening in other countries and that we can do it simply. But we have a certain practice here and there are a number of concerns from the Chamber about the actual impact of this bill on the experience of women and on the expertise of doctors. How can the general practitioners provide for this? There are questions about the effects on education and the like and on the effects on abortion clinics. Hence the suggestion that we may first have to test this small scale to see what its effects are, before we introduce it overall and widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u125	That, I believe, is the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u126	Yeah, I get it. That is Mrs Palland's amendment. Perhaps it is appropriate to agree that we should go into the amendment in more detail in the second period. We did indeed look at Sweden, where they started to be available via the GP in 1991, 31 years ago. In France, that was in 2004. There are other countries too. At the same time, I understand what Mrs Palland is saying. We will look into this in more detail in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u127	I thank Mr Paternotte for his reply. I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Ockje Tellegen in this debate today. I would like to wish her a great deal of improvement from this place and thank her for all the efforts she has made on this subject over the past week. I will, last of the four, take care of the block of varia. I come first to Mrs Maeijer's questions. She asked, among other things, for countries where the general practitioner has long been competent to provide the abortion pill. That was mentioned a moment ago. France and Sweden are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. In addition, Australia is also an example where the general practitioner can prescribe the abortion pill, at least since 2019. It is also good to note that countries have different healthcare systems. Comparing everything one-on-one is almost impossible, also because there are differences in culture and mentality. Mr Stoffer asked whether the proposers agreed that the abortion pill is not comparable to other medications or prescriptions. I tell him, through you, Mr President, that prescribing the abortion pill is incomparable with other prescriptions prescribed by a general practitioner because a termination of pregnancy takes a special place as a medical act. What makes pregnancy breaks special is that there must always be a balance between the protection of unborn life on the one hand and the self-determination of women on the other, while in regular medical procedures the goal is to make a sick person better. That is why we also have a separate legal framework. The special status of abortion does not change with this initiative proposal. After all, the guarantees and quality requirements to ensure the balance in the law on termination of pregnancy will also apply to the general practitioner. Mr Stoffer also asked whether it could be ensured that general practitioners, practitioners and assistants would not have to cooperate in the termination of pregnancy if they did not wish to do so. It has been indicated that a substantial number of general practitioners are willing to provide this care. However, it may also be the case that a general practitioner does not want to do this for reasons. If a general practitioner wishes to provide the abortion pill, this will be covered by the special offer. This means that additional training, expertise, registration and, if necessary, a different practice are needed. This offer also requires specific arrangements with the health insurance provider. Since it is a special offer, a general practitioner or practical supporter cannot be obliged to carry it out. This is contrary to the basic offer: that part of the general practitioner's care is automatically contracted by health insurance companies, and therefore the general practitioner is obliged to provide this care. For the pharmacist, if a pharmacist does not want to provide the abortion pill because of the values of his own belief, the pharmacist must inform the doctors in his care area and make arrangements with fellow pharmacists about the continuity of care provision and referral to a fellow pharmacist. Then Mrs Paulusma asked how medication via the GP contributes to making pregnancy termination more affordable and accessible for women who do not have Dutch status. Among other organisations such as Doctors of the World, people without Dutch status inform about where they can go for care, for example with a general practitioner. They also inform healthcare institutions about the provision of care to women who have no Dutch status and about aspects of this care, such as contributions and allowances. For insured women who have Dutch nationality or a valid residence permit, an abortion is reimbursed through the health insurance company or the Long-term Care Act. In the Dutch situation, it is now the case in clinics that a case-by-case study is being carried out on how to finance abortion aid for women without Dutch status. In this way the financial capacity can be taken into account. There are also private organisations and municipalities that finance or contribute to abortion assistance for women without Dutch status through an emergency fund. If there are medical reasons for termination of pregnancy in a woman without Dutch status, a hospital with a permit can declare the costs to the CAK. With regard to general practitioners, the possibility of medical termination of pregnancy in the general practitioner will contribute to the accessibility and affordability of abortion care for women without Dutch status, as this care costs less to the general practitioner than the same treatment in a clinic. Similarly, it was argued in replying to the financial implications of the legislative proposal. It is important that for women without Dutch status it is clear how the process around the abortion pill is arranged at the GP, if they report there. As a result, it is also important that general practitioners are aware of the steps to be taken if women without Dutch status report to them. Mr Cedar of the Christian Union expressed his concern and wondered whether this proposal would not bring down the threshold. In our view, this will not be the case. The general practitioner plays an important role in contraception and also in preventing unwanted pregnancy. The involvement of the general practitioner also makes it possible to look at other solutions that fit in the context of the woman, because the general practitioner is usually also familiar with the home situation. A number of questions have also been asked, among others, by Mrs Kuik, Mrs Maeijer and Mr Ceder, about the combination of this bill and the bill on the abolition of the mandatory period of reflection. How do they technically relate to each other? With regard to the latter, on 9 February the Court received a second letter of amendment which regulates the converging of both legislative proposals. The authors have previously said that they do not consider that these are two legislative proposals that work at a threshold, but two legislative proposals that further improve abortion practice. Abortion is and remains a subject that we need to discuss carefully. Pregnancy termination will always be accompanied by quality and care guarantees to ensure the balance in the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, which I mentioned earlier. As far as the flexibility of the period of reflection is concerned, the proposers believe that it does not diminish but rather contributes to the quality and care of abortion. As has already been said, the provision of the abortion pill increases the accessibility of aid. To touch on this, Mr Stoffer asked whether a legal reflection period should be fixed in the event of an overtime treatment. We believe that not a time limit but the care of a good conversation between GP and woman contributes to a weighted choice of pregnancy termination. We also had an exchange of views on this during the debate on abolishing the mandatory period of reflection. Mrs Hermans had a number of questions. She asked for the inspection to be kept on the wrist in the interim. The authors agree with this interest. Among other things, through the annual reports of the IGJ, numerical representations of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act are provided, from which trends can become apparent. Mrs Ellemeet also referred to Mrs Palland's proposed amendment on a five-year review of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. I can imagine that this legislative amendment will be explicitly addressed in these evaluations. Mrs Hermans asked how general practitioners can let women know in their practice that they are willing to accompany them in a medical termination of pregnancy. If women knock on the GP during an unwanted pregnancy, the GP may indicate in the interview whether he or she is willing and able to prescribe the abortion pill. General practitioners can also communicate this additional competence on their website, as is the case with a special offer, or through their newsletter or other communication channels of the practice in question. Finally, Mrs Palland stressed the importance of preventing repeat abortions. Further agreements have been reached on this in the coalition agreement. The Minister will come forward with an elaboration of these agreements. I would like to add that the provision of the abortion pill by the general practitioner can make a positive contribution to preventing repeat abortions, because general practitioners know the woman well and are therefore able to provide targeted advice. I also addressed this in response to Mr Ceder's previous question. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u129	I would like to thank Mr Van Wijngaarden for his contribution. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as advisor to the Chamber. I suggest that we proceed immediately to the second term. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u130	Thank you, Mr President. In combination with the announcement "Afterwards we will proceed with the second term" you will set the bar firmly. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Tellegen, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van Wijngaarden, and the other Members for their questions. I would be happy to provide you with information on abortion care, on its quality assurance, the national network of clinics and the funding, in such a way that you can make a good assessment of the legislative proposal before us. In the coalition agreement, this initiative law was designated for the personal consideration of the MPs. In replying to the questions on the bill, I will refrain from consulting and do not interfere with these personal considerations. I shall now reply to the questions put to me. I shall begin with the question by some of your Members of Parliament as to how I weigh the judgment of the Council of State. It also called for attention to be paid to care and the balance between the protection of unborn life and the self-determination of women. These questions are at the heart of the bill. Mrs Ploumen, in particular, took note of this by showing the further adaptation following that assessment by the Council of State. The questions are getting at the heart of the bill. In doing so, I am abstaining from an opinion and further answers to these questions. Mrs Paulusma asked if I could indicate what steps I am going to take to ensure knowledge and quality about abortion in the general practitioner but also in abortion clinics and hospitals. Let me say first of all that I consider it very important with your Chamber that the quality of abortion care in the Netherlands remains high, even if this bill is passed and the abortion pill is available at the GP. Work is currently under way on the implementation of the GP Guide in an unintended pregnancy. I will consult with the Dutch Family Doctors Society and the Family Doctors Advisory Group on Sexual Health about what general practitioners need in order to also provide good quality abortion care after the adoption of the law. This is in line with the discussions which the initiators have already had on this subject. Mrs Paulusma asked whether this is the right way of financing, because it concerns the same subsidy as abortion clinics and whether there are other long-term options or other forms of funding that are preferred. I will come back to this in a few moments on a number of supplementary questions on funding. I can say for now that the way in which the abortion pill is to be provided by the general practitioner still needs to be looked at. Connection to the existing subsidy scheme is an option, but this raises the necessary implementation issues, for example with regard to the administrative burden of the general practitioner. Mrs Westerveld asked what the training of general practitioners looks like. Is the Dutch Society of Abortion Doctors involved in this, so that they can share their expertise with the general practitioners? What can a doctor who has doubts about whether the choice has been made under duress? Training needs to be further developed and this has just been considered when this legislative proposal is adopted. In addition, a general administrative measure will lay down rules for the general practitioner's support in careful decision-making and lay down requirements for assistance and decision-making. Of course, I will talk to the professional groups, the NHG and the Dutch Society of Abortusartsen about implementation, including education, and I will support this where necessary. Mrs Westerveld also asked how the good quality of care is delivered and whether it remains high, even if a general practitioner performs relatively few treatments. That affects the debate that has just been held. For the general practitioners who want to provide abortion care, training will be available through the Dutch Family Doctors Society. In addition, further rules and requirements in the general administrative measure to be drawn up must be complied with. Once again, we are all in agreement: the quality is high and it must remain high if this law is to be adopted. Mrs Westerveld also asked how we ensure that general practitioners are adequately equipped with resources, equipment, knowledge and expertise. I have just mentioned the training through the Dutch Family Doctors Society and the detailed rules and requirements in the general measure of governance to be drawn up. I cannot state exactly how much time is needed for this at the moment, but that will of course be part of that discussion with these parties. Mrs Westerveld also asked whether general practitioners have enough time to have conversations with women and whether general practitioners themselves have time to do so. I am aware that this extends the tasks of the general practitioner, while many of the general practitioners and practitioners are already being asked to do so. This provision of care and the time involved, of course, takes into account not only the decision-making conversation and any subsequent termination of pregnancy, but also the follow-up that a woman may wish to have. Of course, I'm taking that into account in the conversation I just mentioned. Mrs Hermans said that general practitioners claim that the funding through a grant... I'm gonna stop, 'cause there's a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u131	It stood out, indeed. You were running. Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u132	Thank you for the Minister's concrete response. I also had a question about equipment. That's what it's been about for a while. Mr Paternotte also replied. I wonder how the Minister sees it, because you obviously need expensive equipment for the proper execution of treatments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u133	Unfortunately, I keep saying in the same general terms that this should be the subject of discussion. You have already heard that the response of the LHV and the NHG is positive in itself, but I did not have the conversation myself, so I don't know how they look at the availability of equipment. Mrs Hermans said that the general practitioners claim that funding through a grant through VWS is a complicated way. She asked: how do we avoid red tape? The method of financing the delivery of the abortion pill by the general practitioner should be further examined. It is an option to join an existing subsidy scheme, but it does involve the necessary implementation issues, including the additional administrative burden. I will, of course, involve the professional groups concerned in exploring the way in which these administrative burdens are financed and reduced. This is also in line with a question that Mrs Ploumen has just raised in the debate: how do you ensure financial continuity? No, excuse me, that was another question. It was about the option of declaring to a health insurance company. This too is potentially an option, but each of the So the message for now is that its further development really takes some time. I cannot yet say what the most optimal financing structure is. Mr Ceder asked how it is ensured that general practitioners who do not wish to obtain accreditation do not suffer negative consequences from patients. Should this bill be adopted, it will remain in full force that a general practitioner who does not want to carry out abortion treatment should not have to cooperate and therefore not have to obtain accreditation. This is in line with the discussion that has already taken place. Mr Ceder also asked: the Minister promised to come forward with a coalition agreement before 1 May to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies; does the Minister also want to include broader aspects, such as the role of the social domain? Indeed, the cabinet is currently working on the elaboration of the coalition agreement. The Secretary of State for VWS is responsible for the prevention of unintended pregnancies. The cabinet aims to share with your Chamber the initial elaboration of the plans this spring, in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u134	Of course, I like to hear that. That is also in line with the widely adopted motion. I would ask the Minister to include explicitly the reduction in the number of abortions. That was exactly what had been exchanged with this minister and not just with the Secretary of State. So I see that responsibility in a broad sense. I think we agreed on that, but I think it is good to emphasise that here in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u135	I'd like to confirm that. Mr. Chairman. Some of your MPs asked about the future stability of existing abortion clinics and the guarantees regarding the maintenance and continuity of care in these clinics, and thus the security of existence. Those are very legitimate questions. I, like you, cannot currently assess the impact of the adoption of these laws, and the impact of the availability of medication for early termination of pregnancy at the GP on the continuity of individual clinics. At this stage, I cannot give guarantees as to the future resilience of individual clinics. I also have no influence on the distribution of clinics in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u136	If the Minister wanted that, I think he could have a grip on it. That seems to me to be a question of political choice and political will. It's not something that falls out of the sky or anything. We can arrange that if we all want to. I am concerned about this statement by the Minister, because he is actually saying: we are just going to wait and see what the effect of this law is. It could just be that certain clinics in certain regions are disappearing because of this law. This may lead to the consequence that women who still have the choice for that anonymous route in an abortion clinic will no longer have that option, or only have that option at a very long distance, because this minister does not want to give guarantees. I think he should and could do more in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u137	As we have just discussed, it is completely unclear what the impact will be on the adoption of this bill in terms of the number of abortions that go through the general practitioner and not through a clinic. What we do know is that it is only about the medicinal part and not about the instrumental part. But we don't know the numbers. We just heard about the possibility of a financial impact. But that too is completely uncertain. The situations in a number of different countries have been discussed in international papers. We also don't know what it does with the total number of abortions if you make this possible. Mrs Bikker was right to ask for a reduction in the number of pregnancy breaks in the policy in the coming years. All these things together make it completely unclear what will be the situation over a number of years with regard to the number of abortions in the clinics. That makes it extremely difficult for me to give guarantees now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u138	However, we must be able to reach firm agreements on the availability of abortion care in the clinic, as far as the SP is concerned. Because if we do not do that, then we run the risk, because of the loss of income and part of the care that is still being given in that clinic, that some of the women who make a very conscious choice not to go to the general practitioner... Mr President, you are in a position to sign to me. I understand you're in a hurry. This is the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u139	I'm gonna say something. You've made your point a number of times. I'm also trying to avoid too much repetition. You can also make your point if you make it a little shorter. So I'm giving you a chance to do your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u140	That's true, Mr. Chairman, but this is a legal procedure. It's a complicated and important subject. So I think it is also important that we should be able to discuss this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u141	Sure. That's why you've had a lot of interruptions. So I'll give you plenty of room to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u142	Yes. They're needed, too, so that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u143	But it can also be short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u144	That's possible, too. You'll only be a woman who is unwanted pregnant in an environment that can be a heavily reformed environment in which you absolutely don't want to go to the GP for all kinds of logical reasons. Then you want to stay on that anonymous route after the abortion clinic. That is why it is so important that abortion care in the clinics should not be put under pressure, regardless of the impact of this bill. I understand that the Minister cannot give guarantees for each individual clinic, but he can guarantee that the availability, accessibility and access to abortion care in these clinics will not deteriorate as a result of this law. That's a guarantee the SP wants under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u145	The provision of abortion aid in the Netherlands is of a high level. We have seen this a number of times, and I fully support it. There are no financial deficits at the moment either. In general, relocation of care also leads to a relocation of resources. Against this backdrop, a high level and no deficits....................................................................................................................................................... I don't want to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u146	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u147	This is so lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u148	No, no, no, Mr. Hijink. Otherwise, it's gonna be a real repeat. You have had twice the opportunity to ask your question in detail. The Minister has answered that question and we are moving on now. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mrs Hermans said that there is no abortion clinic in Friesland and in Drenthe and asked: can the Minister see that the national network of abortion clinics continues to exist? As you know, there are currently 16 abortion clinics in the Netherlands and there is a national network. I am aware that women in Friesland and Drenthe and also in the Wadden Islands have to travel longer than anywhere else in the country before they get to an abortion clinic. At the moment, I have no signs that this will lead to major problems. Mrs Maeijer asked: how does the Minister assess the accessibility and accessibility of the current situation? The answer is in line with my previous answer: on the basis of the studies, evaluation and inspection available to me, I have no reason to believe that the current abortion assistance is not sufficiently accessible or accessible. Mrs Westerveld asked whether it was true that in the BES islands there is only a licensed hospital in Bonaire and what are the possibilities on the other islands. Women on Saba or Saint-Eustatius who wish to have a pregnancy break are indeed referred, because the hospital in Bonaire has a license under the Law of Abruption pregnancy. Women on Saba and Saint Eustatius are referred. Potential clinics on these islands are also free to apply for a permit. Mrs Westerveld also asked if the Minister would like to take steps to remove abortion from the Code of Criminal Law. As part of the second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, no recommendation has been made to remove abortion from criminal law. The Cabinet therefore sees no reason to do so at this time. Mr Stoffer said that abortion pills can simply be ordered online and delivered in the Netherlands. He asked: is the Minister aware of this and is the ban on the provision of abortion pills online or by post actively maintained? Yeah, I'm aware of this. The provision of abortion pills via the Internet without a treatment relationship with the woman is prohibited under the Medicines Act, but even if there is a treatment relationship, the Law of Abruption of Pregnancy prohibits care and quality from providing the abortion pill via the Internet. The Health and Youth Inspectorate supervises and can also enforce. Mr Stoffer also asked about the activities of Women on Waves. On their website they indicate that they are willing to give a permit to general practitioners who already want to provide abortion pills. If Women on Waves offers abortion care that does not fit within the said permits, this may give rise to the inspection to take administrative measures or possibly for the prosecution of criminal proceedings. That's how I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u150	This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the proposers and the consultant. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66. Go ahead. Oh, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u151	Yeah, you want me to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u152	I call Mrs Paulusma. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I'll wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u154	I think everybody's in there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u155	Is everyone ready? Mr. Chairman. The initiative legislative proposal we have discussed today extends the freedom of choice for women. It improves women's self-determination. It strengthens the right of women, something we still cannot take for granted in 2022, not in the world but also in the Netherlands. I would therefore like to thank the initiators for the initiative and for their answers to all our questions. That same thanks goes to the Minister. But I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Chamber for once again a careful debate. Mr. Chairman. As I said before, the fact that we can also have the abortion pill provided by the general practitioner with this law is an important step. Because aborting a pregnancy isn't an easy choice for anyone. With this bill, a woman can opt for care closer to home, with a general practitioner she knows and trusts. This care may also prevent repeated unwanted pregnancies. This improves abortion care in the Netherlands as a whole. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions. It is nice to hear that care care and quality are at the heart of this bill. That is also very important for my group. But that also requires careful implementation. Can the initiators say anything about the timetable of the introduction of the law? When do they expect, for example, that the general practitioners can be trained? When can women really go to the GP? Mr. Chairman. I also believe that making this abortion care in Europe is essential. We notice that more and more women, for example from Poland, come to Germany and the Netherlands to have abortions here. This says something about the despair of these women. I therefore ask the Minister whether he intends, or is willing, to engage with other EU countries to ensure good and accessible abortion care for all women in Europe, especially in the light of the large flow of refugees, especially women we see from Ukraine. Good abortion care should also be available to these displaced women at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u156	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the second time in a short time that we have talked about good abortion care in this Chamber. We have had a debate on the period of reflection. Of course, this was partly about how we, as a society, look at women, whether or not women can make their own, good choices independently, in consultation with the doctor. This debate is also partly about freedom of choice, about good care. First of all, I would like to thank the authors and also the Minister for the good and clear answers. We've asked quite a few questions from the Chamber. I am very pleased that the authors have given a very clear answer. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on the financial impact of the initiative proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that abortion clinics may lose sales because general practitioners take over part of abortion care;]] [[Whereas the termination of pregnancy in the abortion clinic should also remain an option to increase the freedom of choice of women;]] [[Calls on the Government not to change further the system used for the budget of funds for the grant scheme for abortion clinics until the next evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely the financial impact of the initiative proposal on abortion clinics and, where appropriate, to carry out a new cost study to review the rates for abortion clinics,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Kuik, Mr Paulusma and Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34891-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u158	This motion amounts to the possibility of a cost inquiry. On the contrary, I had the impression that the authors also made it very clear that the consequence of this initiative proposal should not be that the quality of and access to care in the clinics are deteriorating. A cost study is interesting, but ultimately it will have to be said that this is not going to happen as a result of this initiative proposal. I wonder why that's not in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u159	I understand Mr Hijink's concerns very well. We too have asked these questions. This motion requires two things. The motion first of all calls for the next review of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act not to change the systematic and the means. That seems to me to be a rather clear question to the government. It also seems to me to be a good guarantee to ensure that there is no financial need. Secondly, this motion calls for proper monitoring of the effects. Of course, the effects are also monitored to prevent financial problems from occurring in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u160	It's a whole different story, but I get a bit of a déjà vu to the monitor we got at the time about the subscription rate in the Wmo. At that time, we were also promised a cost study. Then there was the investigation, but now the municipalities are in the financial misery and it is not solved. That's where I care. Cost studies don't tell me that much. In my opinion, I would like the proposers to know that also "that freedom of choice also means that you retain and strengthen the freedom to choose the anonymous route to the clinic." I fear this is not enough in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u161	I agree with what Mr Hijink says here. I think it would also be a good idea to ask for a further response. I just got his questions. He'd rather have had the opportunity to ask through. This is where I like to do it. We agree on the cost aspect. Of course, this legislative proposal must not lead to any less freedom of choice. That is why the financial conditions must also be very well in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u162	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr. Chairman. The initiators have explicitly indicated that it will always be voluntary to provide abortion care. That is why I am not tabling a motion on that point. I shall table another motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sale and delivery of the abortion pill is prohibited under Article 296 of the Code of Criminal Law, unless the treatment is carried out by a doctor in a hospital or clinic with an abortion permit or, if the bill is adopted, a general practitioner with accreditation;]] [[calls on the Government to actively maintain the ban on (online) selling and/or providing abortion pills and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34891-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr President, in conclusion. Mr Paternotte referred to a month ago's vote on the period of reflection. It was then ruffled by a large majority. That made me feel painful and lonely. I should also like to say quite frankly that my expectation for next week is that this initiative proposal will be put to the vote next week, I do not think it will be much better in this case. At such a moment I often feel the need to go to the cemetery in my village, to the grave of the woman who gave me life, my mother. The time with her was too short, but she left a strong mark on my life, my ways and my thinking. Near my mother's grave is my grandmother's grave. There is a text above which struck me on Monday: "Jesus says: I am the resurrection and life." This text comes from John 11, a history of two sisters and a brother: Marta, Mary and Lazarus. Lazarus gets sick and Jesus is called, but he is late, because Lazarus has already died. Martha, his eldest sister, goes to Jesus: if you had been there, Lazarus would not have died. Jesus answers: I am the resurrection and the life that text on the tombstone. When they are near to their house, Martha says: Mary, come, for the master, Jesus, is there and he calls you. Mary is coming. They go together to the grave where Lazarus is buried. Jesus rolls the stone out of there and says, "Lazarus, come out." He gets up and lives again. You may wonder what that history has to do with what we are doing here. Let us be clear: we are talking about an abortion pill. As a SGP, we don't want that pill, not with the GP, not from a mail order company, nor from the clinic, which is already possible. It struck me that Jesus here shows that not me, not us, but He is about life. I gotta tell you, I gotta tell you, it hit me that I should know that Jesus is alive. He gives life. He's life. He calls you, me and everyone who hears this: choose life. I would add: choose the unborn life as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u165	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr. Chairman. After such an argument, I also have the feeling of doing the liberal reading, but I confine myself to doing so. We have had a very valuable debate with each other, again on a very difficult subject, namely increasing women's freedom of choice at a very difficult time in their lives, and perhaps that of their partners. I am pleased that we have had this debate with each other in a valuable way, but I am also glad that "she decides" in the present time, 2022, is getting more and more value, and that I will be able to decide how I vote on it next week. This also applies to the other members of my group. I assume they want to make the same choice. I hope that we will have a majority later to take a next step. In my opinion, the questions we had as a Chamber have been dealt with very carefully, approached and given the right value. At the same time, I also understand the concerns expressed, among others, by Mr Hijink van de SP. He says: what does the freedom of choice mean for women to be able to go to the family doctor, who is familiar with them, who is accessible, for the existing infrastructure of an abortion clinic? I believe that the authors have approached this very carefully, and the motion underlines this once again. I see it as more than just a cost study, because the motion also makes it very clear that the existing subsidy structure will certainly be maintained for the next five years, because the next evaluation will only take place afterwards. The Minister also stresses that he does not want to depart from this. I see him nodding. I think it is good to emphasise that, even for those who will have to decide in their own groups how they view this bill. Mr. Chairman. I've been through time. I apologize for that. I will conclude with a word of thanks to the authors of the bill, including Mrs Tellegen, who is at home, as well as her worthy replacement and, above all, the staff and all those who have in any way been involved in the drafting of the bill. Finally, Mr President. This is the third bill this week. We forget it occasionally in the delusion of the day, and sometimes we are blamed for navel stares, but at the same time there are just a lot of MPs and a lot of employees day in, day out to make the Netherlands a bit better and more beautiful. And I'm glad. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u167	That's right. I fully agree with that. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the initiators and the Minister for reply. Also on my behalf from this place much better to colleague Ockje. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said a few times: this is the second time in a short time that we are talking about abortion care in the Netherlands and the law in which we have done this well and carefully with each other. I have said it a few times in recent debates that balance between helping and supporting women in need and protecting unborn life is central to that law. My group will look at this when it comes to weighing up this proposal. When I make that assessment for myself, I say: this proposal helps to help women in need, because we make the care of women who face such a radically difficult decision more accessible. Protecting unborn life requires a very careful decision-making process. In that conversation, aimed at making an informed decision, general practitioners already play a role. Now there may also be the possibility of helping women in the actual provision of care. That does not replace clinics or hospitals; it comes next to it. It does require a lot of general practitioners when they get that opportunity, so I would very much like to join Mrs Paulusma's question about the education and the timetable around this law. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we've talked about this law twice in recent times. The debates also dealt with the prevention of unwanted pregnancies and their importance. That is precisely why I would like to end by quoting the words of Edith Schippers at the start of the discussion and the debate on this subject. She said: "A GP knows the woman and her circumstances, and may be able to advise more specifically about the different possibilities and, in addition, perhaps prevent women from getting unwanted pregnant again." That is what we are talking about, and these are my words, which are incredibly important to all of us, but in particular the women involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u169	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the outset, the SP has stressed that this is not a matter of principle for us. We are really concerned about the quality of abortion care in our country, which must take place in the place where women can best be helped. If that's the GP's, it's the GP's, and if that's in the clinic, it's in the clinic. What we still have concerns about is the number of general practitioners who will actually want and be able to offer the abortion pill, and the ability of these doctors, also in relation to the care that is offered at the clinic and that is of high quality. These concerns also apply to the image that women now have of the law we are discussing today and its outcome. Will this law actually bring a great deal of change to the vast majority of women? Or should we fear that only a limited number of general practitioners will want to provide the abortion pill and that this will mean in practice that women who may still have the expectation that the whole treatment can take place at their own GP will come home from a cold carnival if their own GP doesn't and still have to go to the clinic for the ultrasound, which might make it more beautifully previewed than it is going to be? I also made the point about the funding of the clinics easy. I am not reassured yet because, in particular, the Minister does not want to give the guarantee and clarity that the result of this law will not be to put pressure on the number of clinics, but also on their availability, access and accessibility. Everyone sees that this is going to happen when part of the care is going to disappear from the clinics. I think "turnover" is such a stupid word to use in healthcare, but at least they're gonna miss out on treatments there. That goes without saying. So that's gonna have consequences. The SP is absolutely opposed that the accessibility, availability, access to abortion care in clinics would reverse as a result of this law. I would like to stress this again, a little over time, Mr President, but I only had a minute and a half and I need a little more. That is a very important point for us. If that does not happen, then this law can have an opposite effect, namely that it says: you can go to the doctor for the abortion pill. But especially for those women who do not want to go to the general practitioner, for all kinds of good reasons, perhaps because there is a relationship of trust and that they do not want to harm this relationship of trust by having this treatment done at the general practitioner, the corridor to the abortion clinic must remain open. Then it should not depend on the location et cetera. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the financial impact of the initiative proposal on abortion clinics and, where appropriate, to review the rates for abortion clinics so that access, accessibility and availability of abortion care in clinics do not deteriorate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34891-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr President, thank you. In the first period, I indicated that I would use my speaking time to get an answer to as many questions as possible, so that everyone in my group can make an informed assessment. I would therefore like to thank the authors for their comprehensive reply. I have a number of things that I would very much like to ask for a further response to. The proposers indicate three objectives of the law: freedom of choice, improving care around unwanted pregnancies and improving access to abortion care. These objectives, I presume, serve to solve a problem. I would very much like to hear on the basis of dates where, in relation to these three objectives in the current situation, the problem really is and how big that problem is, especially now that the Minister has just said that current care is not insufficiently accessible and easily accessible. In addition, the proposers argue that there is a large group of women who could potentially have stayed with the GP, i.e. about 50%. Is it also known how many percent of these women actually needed to stay there? And how does that relate, for example, to what emerges from the second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, that women now also often turn to the GP because they do not know that they can go straight to the clinic? Finally, Mr President. The Minister, if I have listened carefully, just indicated that it is unknown what the effect of this law is, what the effect is on abortion care in general and what the effect is on the number of abortions. I would very much like to get a response from the proposers themselves. How do they weigh this ruling in the light of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u172	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors for their reply and also the Minister. Because this is an intense bill because it's about unwanted pregnancy. If you're unwelcomely pregnant, it's incredibly intense. Too often women and girls are on their own. Wherever you live, in a city district like Kanaleneiland or Moerwijk, or in a village in the countryside, I'd like you to find someone to talk to about that and also to consider it in safety. Because no matter how you feel about abortion, and even if there are differences of opinion, I think everyone wants there to be good help for these women and girls in an emergency, and that this number will also be reduced, that fewer and fewer women and girls are going through this. Mr. Chairman. The Law on Abrupting Pregnancy is not only about the freedom of choice of women but also about the protection of unborn life. Because every life has intrinsic value. It is at this point that I have my concerns, because this law, together with the other law recently adopted on the period of reflection, does cause a shift in the balance sheet. This bill also requires a lot of general practitioners, because they are given a great responsibility for that woman in her emergency situation, but also for that unborn life. I would therefore like to thank the authors and also the Minister for the clear statement that a general practitioner is always free and free to choose whether to obtain an accreditation for this. I would also like to see general practitioners, especially when it comes to socio-economic and socio-cultural conditions, able to contribute in a good way to the freedom of such a woman. Unfortunately, it is often limited by difficulties surrounding housing, by lack of support from the family or by, for example, study. There is still so much to improve on that point. I would like to stress that, if this legislative proposal reaches a majority, it is important that the general practitioner is able to refer properly to the social domain and to voluntary organisations. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas socio-economic conditions such as living, living and studying can also make a huge difference if women are pregnant unexpectedly and/or unwantedly;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 6a (3) (a) Waz, the GP will provide responsible information on solutions to an emergency situation other than termination of pregnancy;]] [[Whereas for this purpose, general practitioners should also have network and, if necessary, perseverance in the local social domain in order to allow women who have doubts to have real freedom of choice;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in the development of the AMvB, which follows from Article 6a (3) Waz, that accreditation also imposes requirements for the awareness and ability to refer to within the social domain and social initiatives supporting, for example, young mothers with housing or guidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34891-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u174	Mr President, I will conclude. During these debates I received a message from a mother who had unexpectedly become pregnant as a young student. The panic and the heaviness of that moment she could still lively imagine, just like the doubt about what to do. Then she met someone who said, "I have faith in you. You can do this. You're gonna get through this, and we're gonna help you." At the end of the debate, I would like to give everyone in those circumstances such a person, someone who supports you in that. I hope that when we meet someone in those circumstances, we will be there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u175	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u176	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for answering our questions and responding to our comments. Mr. Chairman. Human life deserves protection, as far as we are concerned, including unborn life. That is why we attach great care to dealing with a woman who is in an emergency situation and to careful abortion practice. Mr President, on this proposal. General practitioners think differently about the medical termination of pregnancy by the general practitioner. The National Family Doctors Association and the Dutch Family Doctors Society can agree with the proposal of the initiators, subject to the condition that this is covered by the so-called special offer. It is up to the general practitioner whether or not he or she offers the abortion pill on the grounds of medical competence and ethical and/or practical objections. This is also essential for the CDA. In addition, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is up to the woman, if she is in an emergency situation as a result of an unintentional pregnancy, to choose which medical care provider can best assist her in doing so. As far as we are concerned, the general practitioner can play this role of confidence, under the above-mentioned conditions. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment to put the care of practice first and see whether the legislative proposal can first be examined in small scale and with caution in practice. What are the effects? What are the experiences of general practitioners and women? What about the funding and the administrative burden? We could first look at this in a temporary pilot in practice. Mr. Chairman. The bill would also concern a second amendment to the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. As far as we are concerned, it is important to keep this law and practice under regular review. That is why I have tabled an amendment on that point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we want to link the commitment to this proposal to reduce the number of repeat abortions. Hence the next short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the initiative legislative proposal provides for the possibility of increasing and strengthening the role of the general practitioner in (absorbing) an unwanted pregnancy;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to reduce the number of (repeat) aborts;]] [[invites the Cabinet, in consultation with the National Family Doctors Association and the Netherlands Family Doctors Society, to consider how, when implementing the initiative proposal, the commitment to preventing and reducing the number of repeat aborts can be implemented and how this commitment can be monitored in practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34891-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u177	I ask the initiators to take their place again. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to start with a very big thank you to all our staff, because we would not be standing here, with all the answers we have, and at all with the bill, if we had not had their help. With your permission, I'm going to name the names, because it's a very sad thing. Karen van der Heijden, Dorrit de Jong, Daniël de Rijke, Jan Ravensbergen, Marieke Erpenbeek, Engelina Chicken, Nele Boy and Marloes Vernooijs, thank you very much for all your good work. Mr. Chairman. Then there were some questions. Mrs Paulusma asked about the timetable. Of course, a number of things have to be done properly before the general practitioners can start, should this bill be passed. It depends on the drafting of the directive, the development of training and the development of funding; and on the treatment in the First Chamber, but that goes without saying. All of that has to be careful. Our estimate is that this would mean that the first general practitioners could start on 1 January 2023. But I am also looking at the Minister, because he will, of course, also have to accompany this process. Mr. Chairman. Then there were some questions from Mrs Westerveld and Mr Hijink about funding. We want to be very clear about that. This bill aims to improve abortion care. This means that the structure of funding should not change at least until the next evaluation. It also means that access to abortion care must remain good, even more so. The way you can keep the finger on the wrist is by monitoring. I would like to say again that we are also here as a chamber. We, the Chamber, keep an eye on that and can speak out. I think it is important to give that to the members of the Chamber. In the end, the Chamber is in a position to intervene if necessary. We don't expect that. I am also looking, for example, at the way in which implementation has been carried out in France. That has gone very slowly. But let us be clear: we are aiming for an improvement. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maeijer asked about the exact number of women. How many women are going to use this? So we know that more than half of the women already report to the general practitioner in the first instance. It goes too far to conclude that all these women make the statement that they also want to stay with that general practitioner, but it is of course an important indicator for the positive appreciation of women for their general practitioner. It is also in line with the call made by all these civil society organisations and women's organisations. This is the result of women's desire to have access to the general practitioner for this abortion care. Mrs Palland has tabled another amendment to which Mr Paternotte will respond. Mr Stoffer gives his perspective on what comes first for him, and that is the prowess of unborn life. We are in line with the law as we already have in the sense that this balance is central to us and remains central to us, including our own initiative law. Mrs Hermans rightly referred to Mrs Edith Schippers, who said quite clearly, I think, from the outset: this familiarity of the general practitioner is very important for women and we must make greater use of it. The prevention of repeat aborts was also important to her, and it is still important to us. Then I think I am at the end of the answer to the questions that had been asked. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u179	It's all through the chairman. It's very automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u180	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u181	It's okay. It's okay. Then I can just say that we have a little change. I shall then give the floor to Mr Paternotte. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u182	Thank you to Mrs Ellemeet and the President for the floor. I should like to comment on Mrs Palland's amendment. I am referring to the second amendment, because of course it had tabled an amendment earlier. I would like to thank her for the amendment to item No. 16 and, in any case, for the work it has done on this initiative proposal. It has tabled two amendments. This amendment covers five pages. There's obviously a lot of work in there. In fact, the amendment converts this whole legislative proposal into an experimental proposal, an experiment limited in duration and place to two years and one or more regions. We understand what Mrs Palland is trying to achieve, namely that the experiment should give access to matters such as the percentage of women who are going to use them, the precise effect on the number of abortions that take place and the possible prevention of repeated pregnancies. On this basis, it wants to see how the legislation can be used further. I stressed in the block on scientific research that we, as proposers, have looked at the practice and effects in Sweden, France, the United States and Canada. Mr Van Wijngaarden also briefly addressed Australia. On this basis, we have the impression that in all these countries there has been no increase in the number of abortions by making the abortion pill available to general practitioners, general practitioners and similar institutions. There is a slight decline in Sweden, but that was also the case in the 1990s after the abortion pill became available. In itself, therefore, there are already a lot of data available. The same is true of the Netherlands. We know that the majority of women go to the general practitioner in the first instance, but that a large majority, two thirds of women, prefer instrumental treatment, which will not be available to the general practitioner. On this basis, we estimate that in the short term this will not lead to the vast majority of pregnancy breaks being carried out by the medical route at the GP. It will evolve gradually. Mrs Ellemeet has already said that careful implementation will take place. This means that this law will probably not be able to be implemented before 2023 and that a legislative review will take place in 2027. It will therefore take place approximately three and a half years after the date of the legislative proposal. I am, of course, a little ahead of the rest of the legislative process, including in other houses of the States-General. This means that the time between implementation and evaluation is quite limited, especially when you look at how that usually goes with laws. As far as we are concerned, this gives us a very good opportunity to include very explicitly in the evaluation the frameworks set out in Mrs Palland's amendment for the experiment as she sees it. It outlines a delineation that is still separate from the regional delineation, which we do not see in front of us, namely to see how many women are going to use it, what exactly is the effect on repeated pregnancies, what are the due diligence and quality requirements, and what cooperation agreements exist between general practitioners, hospitals and other diagnostic centres in the first and second lines. We'll take that into account in the evaluation. We will ask the researchers to report on this so that the Chamber can make use of it in the legislative review. We believe that at least some of the points that Mrs Palland has put on the table will be met. But it would not be our wish to turn the whole initiative proposal into an experiment. That means that we have the amendment to item No. 16 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u183	I understand this appreciation from the initiators. I appreciate the effort to get those points back in the evaluation. But such a pilot could have added value. I found it rather alarming that the Minister indicated that it is still completely unclear what the consequences might be. Mrs Ellemeet indicated earlier that there was a gradual implementation in France. Such a pilot could contribute to that. First you can see clearly what the consequences are. Perhaps Mr Paternotte can reflect on exactly what a gradual implementation means, also in the light of the example of France.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u184	It's not like we say "keine Experimente," you should never pre-examine things with pilots. However, there has already been a pilot with the overtime treatment in which general practitioners have participated. Practically speaking, the only difference with this bill is that the limit was six weeks and two days and not nine weeks. However, it can be inferred that general practitioners are in themselves perfectly capable of offering this treatment. This also gives some peace because it shows that we are not quite on terra incognita. The Minister said that accreditation will also be needed. Mrs Ellemeet has dealt with this. It is up to the general practitioners themselves to decide whether they want to offer this. That is also a clear difference with France. This means that we think that this introduction will not take place with one big blow at once but gradually. Then it is also good to look at this not after two years but after three and a half to four years in an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u185	I'll see if Mrs Ploumen has anything else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u186	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u187	Nor does Mr Van Wijngaarden. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to give his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr President, thank you. There was for me a remaining question from Mrs Paulusma regarding the guarantee within Europe for accessible abortion care. She asked me to harden me for that. More specifically, she asked about the accessibility of abortion care, when needed, for women from Ukraine coming to the Netherlands. I'd like to give you that guarantee. There was a supplementary question on funding. I'd like to get back to that at my appreciation of the first motion. First of all, my appreciation of two amendments. Mrs Palland's first amendment looks at starting as an experiment. That affects the substance of the bill and I would like to leave it to your Chamber. Excuse me, I'm just looking for the second amendment. I don't know where it went. That was Mrs Palland's second amendment, but I can no longer see the note. Oh, yeah, that was about a five-year evaluation. Evaluation can be excellent, so it gets judgment Chamber, with the addition that every five years a follow-up evaluation after a first evaluation after five years is a very frequent period. I would like you to consider doing so every ten or every eight or ten years. Every five years is very frequent. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 17 gets judgment room. If, as announced, I give this further appreciation, which has just come back to the discussion, then I am very willing to maintain the current funding system for abortion clinics until the next evaluation, which is now scheduled for 2027. Thus, the funds for the Grant Scheme are also budgeted for abortion clinics on the basis of achievements over the previous years. I am also willing to monitor the financial impact of this bill. A cost study was last carried out in 2018, 2019 on the basis of which the rates for abortion assistance in clinics were changed as of 1 January 2021. If there are grounds for doing so, a cost study is a good opportunity and I am also prepared to start that up again. I can only not now, at this stage in which there are uncertainties as to the impact of the law on the volumina of abortion assistance in individual clinics, give a guarantee as to the continuity of an individual clinic or the continuity of the total number of current clinics. That brings me to the motion for a resolution on item No. 17 on Appreciation Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 18 calls on the government to actively maintain the ban on (online) selling and/or providing abortion pills and to inform the Court of Justice of this. In addition, my appreciation has been dissuaded. It is primarily up to the IGJ to supervise abortion care and thus also to sell abortion pills online. It's not my place to send the IGJ in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u189	There is an interruption by Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u190	I come in a bit of a difficult situation, because in principle this is something that is not legal. I think you should maintain that. And I can't address the inspection. Should I be with the Attorney General, or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u191	It's a criminal offence, and the IGJ will see to it. The IGJ has an autonomous role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u192	I can only ask the Minister the question, can't I? Because I want to be informed as a Member of Parliament about how that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u193	That happens via... That's what the inspection does. They have their own independent role in that. Mr Stoffer now asks me whether I want to actively steer the IGJ in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u194	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u195	No, I am asking whether the government, in the broadest sense, because I believe that the inspection is also under the responsibility of the cabinet. If she wants to do that, I think that's fine. Then it only follows that the Chamber will be informed of how that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u196	The motion now reads "calls on the government to actively enforce the ban on (online) sales and/or the provision of abortion pills, and to inform the Chamber thereof." It is not for me to actively maintain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mr Stoffer's question was also whether he could be informed about how this is going in practice, in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u198	Sure, but you can... Excuse me, I see that Mr Stoffer wishes to make an additional comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u199	Would I change the motion if I removed the word "active" and asked to inform us? So I get the word "active" out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u200	If the motion is "requesting the government to inform the Chamber," then the answer is: Judgement Chamber. But asking me to keep that active, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u201	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u202	I'm considering this adjustment. We'll have a little more discussion on what fits exactly, but I'm gonna change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you very much. I see Mrs Hermans thinking. No? Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 19 gets the appreciation dissuaded. I would refer you to the explanation I gave at the time of the motion for a resolution on item No. 17. The motion in part No. 20 also gets the appreciation dissuaded. I believe that the decision-making process is careful and that a woman gets all the information about, among other things, how to resolve her emergency situation in other ways than by aborting a pregnancy. But the practical implementation of training leading to accreditation is to a profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u205	The motion in part No. 20 is not recommended. You will proceed to the motion in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion in part No. 21. He's gonna get judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u207	Judgment Room. I'll go see Mrs. Bikker first. That's about the motion in part No. 20, I think. Then Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u208	I have really tried to base my motion on the legislative text submitted by the proposers. It states precisely that an AMvB also lays down requirements for responsible information on other solutions to the emergency situation. So I can imagine, just in abstraction, that a general practitioner really does do something about it in his knowledge of the social domain and not only in a manner of speaking has Fiom's song, however good it is that he has and passes it on, but is also familiar with local work with teenage mothers, a housing association that has or I do not know much about solutions for this. So I understand that the Minister in the AMvB does not quite write down exactly what requirements a general practitioner must meet, but I think it is a crucial aspect when looking at the legislative text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u209	Now I would like to refer once again to the text of the motion: calls in the development of the AMvB to ensure that accreditation imposes requirements... In other words: I must specifically interfere with the implementation of accreditation. That's really up to the profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u210	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u211	But the legal text itself already indicates what will be required in any case. I assumed that's part of the accreditation. In doing so, I, as a legislator, give the Minister the power to delegate what the AMvB is going to look like. In my opinion, with the legal text in hand, he can instruct the profession on exactly how to implement it. But I think it is part of that responsible information, as the legal text says. The general practitioner has a different role in this than the abortion clinic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u212	Just so we don't get into semantics. I actually hear Mrs Bikker say: the legal text is already in place; it already says that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u213	If the Minister can assure me that the legal text is in line with this, I will be much happier. But my concern is this is already being asked from abortion clinics. In my opinion, we have also found several times with each other that there really is still room for improvement in the social domain as regards where you refer, also in order to actually increase the freedom of choice of a woman. We're gonna play a new role with the GP. I think it is logical, when you talk about accreditation, that the role of the general practitioner in the social domain in which he sits is explicitly included, whether in Tietjerksteradeel or in Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u214	Let me try to find a solution. If we can jointly conclude that this is in the legal text, I have the conversation with the professional association concerned and can also ask them to take note of the legal text and to ensure that they also pay attention to this in their education and accreditation etc., then the Court of Justice, if I may interpret it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u215	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Bikker. Because that is an adaptation of the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u216	Then I would prefer to continue this motion and see what follows from the Minister's discussion with the profession. If he informs the Chamber about this, we'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u217	That's a great solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u218	I think that is an excellent solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u219	The motion in part No. 20 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for Appreciations. I would like to ask a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 17 and the motion in part No. 19. That was an important part of the debate, particularly Mr Hijink's questions. With the promise made by the Minister at the beginning of his second term, I think that we have an important point for accessibility of care. The motion in part No. 17 is, of course, very focused on the financial effects. This is, of course, also important for accessibility and accessibility. But I would like to ask whether this accessibility will become part of that monitor in a broad sense. In the long term, we will be able to keep a close eye on the questions and concerns of Mr Hijink, who are undoubtedly felt by several colleagues. In this way we can also monitor the effects of the legislative proposal on total abortion care in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u221	That's what I agree with. The aim of the legislative proposal, as explained, is to increase access to abortion care. This also means that you look at total accessibility in an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the initiators, of course. I thank their support. I would like to thank the Minister and Members of Parliament for a nice and dignified debate. I thank the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-4.u223	Next Tuesday, we're going to vote on the bill. That's always exciting. I wish the initiators every success in voting, including the amendments and the motions.
