ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 36042, the adoption of the Decision extending for the fifth time the validity of provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 (Law of approval fifth extension duration Temporary Law measures covid-19), and the Draft Decision extending for the sixth time the validity of provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 (35526, 25295, letters EH). We're going to the first term of the Chamber, but not before I say the following. I would remind you that we will also have a policy debate in a few weeks' time. I am therefore going to ask you to limit it as much as possible to what is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The only corona measure currently in force, the obligation to protect the mouth at Dutch airports, expires on 21 May. Of course, that's something to be happy about. For more than two years, the world, the Netherlands, suffered both a pandemic that led to many deaths and sick people and the far-reaching restrictions resulting from the measures needed to combat this pandemic. All this seems to be over now. You can work, travel, hug, party and live again. But not everyone can party. For many, the effects of corona and of the measures are still palpable on a daily basis, because they have long covid, because the economic support was not enough to overcome the closure of their company or they did not receive this support, because they missed a crucial stage in their development, or because they spent that time behind a screen instead of with classmates or studymates. We also don't know how long the joy will last. The corona virus is still underneath us, and there will certainly be contagion waves again. We just don't know exactly when and how sickening this will be. Mr. Chairman. You recalled: in July we have a broad debate on the corona approach. Then we will look back on the policy pursued and look forward to the future approach. It will then be about prevention, the capacity of care and public communication, to mention just a few points. The House of Representatives is already having that debate on the long-term strategy this week. That is very necessary if I am to take into account the concerns expressed by experts yesterday, and I cannot put it any other way: the Minister's discharge of responsibility. Today we are concentrating on the adoption law of the fifth extension of the Twm and, as a follow-up, on the proposed decision for the sixth extension. In this context, I would like to repeat once again that the only corona measure currently in force is the obligation to protect the mouth at Dutch airports, which will expire on 21 May. This means that the Twm is a completely empty law from 21 May onwards, on which no measure is based. Nothing better than this illustrates that at present there is no need for the Twm anymore. Mr. Chairman. We have recalled it very often in this Chamber: a temporary law that allows for far-reaching intervention in the fundamental rights of citizens must meet the criterion of necessity, not only at the time that this law is introduced, but also at any time that it is renewed. We have also said before that keeping a law under control in the event that, in the interests of certainty, it is not enough to meet this necessity criterion. Now that the need for the law, for any measure, is lacking at the moment, we are in fact done talking. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Je kunt niet anders dan constateren dat er op dit moment niet wordt voldaan aan het noodzakelijkheidscriterium.]] Mr. Chairman. I can almost hear the Minister think: yes, but there was a De Boer motion in this Chamber that asked us to limit the measures to the basic measures; and we did so, not on the fifth but on the sixth extension? And: yes, but the same motion asked for an overview of the main lines of permanent legislation, and we have set out these broad lines, haven't we? I have to admit that, although there is still a good deal of discussion about what is and is not the basic measure and whether the main lines of permanent legislation are concrete enough, the Minister has undoubtedly taken steps to respond to what was called for in the De Boer motion. But time has not stood still. And, as I said, we may and we must note that at present, unlike three months ago, there is no longer any need for the survival of the Twm. I repeat: without necessity, no temporary law and without necessity, no extension of a temporary law. But what if the virus is alive again and restrictive measures are still needed? I'm afraid that's possible. It may also happen before we have a proper permanent law. We can hope to get it in September in the House of Representatives. And yes, that may also mean that at some point there may be a need for a temporary law. However, that is no reason to maintain the Twm now. If the law is not renewed, its text will not be deleted. If a need arises again, it is quite possible that a new Twm will be created within a few weeks. If the necessity really arises again, both the Council of State and the Second and the First Chamber will undoubtedly assume their responsibilities. Mr. Chairman. I did not ask the Minister any questions, but I am obviously curious about his reaction and in particular his reflection on the necessity criterion in relation to this temporary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u5	I would like to ask whether Mrs De Boer can say a little more about this necessity. In my opinion, the WTO still believes that there is a pandemic going on. How does it weigh that argument in that necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u6	The necessity does not reflect on whether policies should be pursued. Yes, it is very necessary to have policies to curb this pandemic. We need to work on prevention, we need to work on government communication and behavioral influence. So there's a lot to be done. The question is whether the measures envisaged by the law are necessary and are not necessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u7	My assessment is that, but we need to hear from the Minister that the first instalment of the adjustments of the Wpg grosso modo will correspond to that sixth extension and the royal decree describing those articles. Wouldn't it make sense to have that sixth extension and, as it were, to pass seamlessly into the final Wpg? I would like to have a further explanation from Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u8	I understand you're asking the question. Two things about that. It will not be a sixth extension. If the bill is submitted to the Chamber before 1 September, it will certainly require a seventh extension. Let me repeat once again: I really think that we, especially in this Chamber, should look after the, I call it, legislative hygiene. If we have a temporary law, it's a temporary law, and then you have to check it against the necessity criterion. If we go on the path of maintaining a temporary law because there may be a permanent law that is similar, then I think we are going the wrong way, not doing what we have to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u9	Does Mrs De Boer continue to hold that judgment when she realises that this is also a risk, because the virus is erratic and the peaks can suddenly appear unexpectedly, also bearing in mind the opinion of the Council of State on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u10	I see the Council of State mopping there a little bit. During the previous extension they gave the warning "this is the last time" and now they are a little hesitant about it. Let's see, your first question was about the whimsy. I've already said that. Yeah, of course the virus can get back on its feet. But I told you, the text of that law is not gone. We have shown this in the Lower House and also in the Upper Chamber with the first round of emergency legislation. If it is really necessary and if that necessity criterion is met again, we can act quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u11	Back to the beginning of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The reason was not only that we were able to take measures, but it was also, in fact, the system of the law that enabled us to take these measures. It also had to do with democratic legitimacy. Aren't you afraid that if we don't extend the Twm... let's say the need comes to the man. You state that we have the rules and that we can extend in a few weeks. But if you don't have those few weeks of time and really need to be able to take urgent measures, don't you think that at least with the Twm we have that lock on the door of the House of Representatives? The House of Representatives may, in revoking the measures in each measure, make the weighting of proportionality and necessity and then say that it does not consider it proportionate or necessary at that time and prevent the measure from occurring. This versus the fact that if we no longer have those instruments, when the Twm expires, we will have to fall back on the emergency regulations in the event of the recovery of a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u12	I would like to say two things about this. One is the legal-legal state. We said last time, including Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, that a temporary law is not a law just in case. A temporary law is a law you need at that time. The other thing is that we are not in the same situation as in the spring of 2020. We can see waves coming better than that. We are better prepared to deal with this in healthcare. So the situation that we won't have to go from no measures to a lockdown in a week, I don't see it happening. The second is that it is even the question whether binding judicial measures, i.e. measures based on the Twm, are actually the most effective measures, but that will have to be assessed. Yesterday I followed with half an eye the experts in the House of Representatives and everything shows that behavioral advice is by far the most effective. Whether or not there is a penalty adds very little to that. So at the time of a wave, make sure you have the capacity of care in order, make sure you can get people back to work at home. I am very concerned about this care capacity, but for example it can work at home and make sure that you can do a lot of things at a distance we have done much better than at a previous time. Then you come a long way with behavioral advice and an emergency legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u13	It is true that we have also questioned the temporality of the law. We also believe that there should be permanent legislation for a number of arguments that you have just mentioned. We simply want to know more about how this effectiveness weighting takes place. However, the consideration we are also making is the lock on the door of the House of Representatives versus letting it go and then falling back on emergency measures. That is indeed a consideration that my group is still actively looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u14	You'll have your deadline for that later. Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u15	I did have a question for Mrs De Boer. You indicated that you consider the legal hygiene of this Chamber to be of great importance. I think we can agree on that. The question is only about the process on the one hand versus the result on the other hand that can occur in the country. Is hygiene in the field of legislative tactics more important than the fact that we are about to face a risk? Because there's another threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u16	It's not an absolute consideration. I understand, for example, from Mrs De Bruijn that the VVD makes that assessment different. But I really do not think that a possible threat in the future is enough for that consideration, especially since, as I have also pointed out, there is also a way forward where you will have legislation faster. I'm afraid I'm going to repeat myself. We really weigh the lack of necessity as much as we do at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u17	Governing is forward-looking, so also looking at the risks you are running and how you can deal with them, knowing that there is already a threat in Africa and that there are some significant signals coming from there that aren't making us happy. The conclusion I draw is that that weighs less for you than the legal hygiene.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u18	No, you'll paraphrase my words very much. I say that it is a weighting, in which we naturally look at the risks. If only we had a bit more forward thinking, we would now have the final law and then there was work on capacity in care, good prevention measures and ventilation in all schools. So you can't blame me for not looking ahead. Then you really should look at the one who rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u19	No, I don't blame you. I'm just doing an observation. The accusation that we believe that the government has simply been too slow in this regard was also expressed together in a joint motion. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u20	The coalition has now asked Mrs De Boer questions because they seem to already feel the mood that the extension is not in place. Our group fully agrees with Mrs De Boer. I would like to ask Mrs De Boer about what has been said by the coalition parties. I hear Mr Van der Voort of D66 saying that there are risks. Isn't it true that if we follow Marion Koopmans, those risks will continue to occur with all kinds of other diseases? We talked about bird flu, mosquitoes and so on. Do you agree with our group that there are any risks at all, but that is not enough and that, yes, governance is forward-looking, the ball was with the government to come up with a proper law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u22	Okay, thank you. I see another question for you from Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr Nicolaï invited me to speak as a coalition partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u24	Perhaps you could do that to Mr Nicolaï later. I'd be happy to answer your questions, but I kind of feel like it's going over my head right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u25	No, I don't, because I have a question for you. What I find a bit special is that when we adopted the De Boer motion as Chamber in mid-February we knew that we would discuss the fifth extension at the end of May, at the beginning of June, at least during that period. We also know that in summer the influence of the virus is always much and much less. How do you look at that De Boer motion from that point of view? Would it really have been necessary then if we were to say now if you were to at least say that it is no longer necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u26	As I said, of course, the situation has not stood still. In February we had a number of more measures, which we felt were necessary at the time. At that time, there was also the risk of new virus variants which might require remedial action. Last year serious measures were needed in the summer. So at that point, the situation was really different from what it is now. We had measures, so: yes, there was a need for action. We simply do not see that need anymore. I don't know if you can see it in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u27	I can imagine you saying that, but if governance is forward-looking, we must also look forward to that. Then we had a highlight with Omikron. We knew the disease burden was low. We knew we'd soon come to some kind of natural immunity. From that point of view, we could have just said: the De Boer motion is superfluous, except as regards the desire for permanent legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u28	I don't hear a question again. You could have said this in your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr. Van der Voort, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u31	I would still like to do a second interruption. That point of necessity puzzles me. There is, of course, a lot of legislation and within the Wpg there are all kinds of articles that are right about the situation that if there may be an infection here or there, there is legislation to go ahead with it. So I do not fully understand the argument that a law is not necessary because at the moment there is no great wave of infections that need measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u32	That's in the temporality of the law. This is a temporary law and this requirement applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you. Then you have finally reached the end of your first term. I give the floor to Mr Janssen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. Fundamental rights belong in a safe and not in a toolbox, and the key to that safe should be held by parliament and not by the cabinet. I have already said in the debate on the third extension that this temporary law for my group would not be a fourth, fifth, sixth and, if we follow the Minister's line, at least not a seventh extension. Can I therefore agree that in the future there will be no further need for measures to combat COOVID-19? No, I cannot and do not, but in my group's opinion there has been all the time and also reason to settle what is still deemed necessary in a regular law such as the Public Health Act, with orderly parliamentary relations and guaranteed protection of fundamental rights. The Minister has now come up with an announcement of a first step in this direction which he will send to the House of Representatives before 1 September. I can only assess whether this change will meet the conditions of parliamentary control if there is a detailed proposal. The Minister refers in his announcement to a motion adopted this year in the Lower House and to the opinion of the Council of State. Then you could take this minister's announcement as an actor for recording in the Wpg, but it is not, of course, if you look back any longer. After all, in October 2020 a motion was tabled by my SP colleague Maarten Hijink c.s. adopted in the Lower House not to continue to work on the basis of emergency legislation, emergency legislation and temporary legislation, but to come up with a structural adaptation of the Public Health Act. The call for temporary measures to be covid-19 is therefore there from the beginning, from the start of the entry into force of this law. Why didn't anything happen to that, my question is to the Minister. Why wasn't this adaptation of the Public Health Act not done before? So what really happened? Did you just move forward? Following on from the colleagues who have just said'regulating is looking ahead', I believe that governance is indeed forward-looking and that governance is not forward-looking. That's completely different. Mr. Chairman. How far were those preparations for the amendment of the Public Health Act advanced? The previous minister has repeatedly promised this First Chamber that these changes would be forthcoming: at the end of 2021, at the beginning of 2022. Did anything happen at all? What did this minister find when he started? Was there anything ready? I am asking this so emphatically because I would like an honest answer from the Minister. Again and again, we are uncomfortablely surprised by information that becomes known through Wob requests and reports such as from the Security Research Council. More information will come out, because there are still a lot of Wob requests and at least there will be two more investigations from the Security Research Council. So back to my question if anything had already been done. And if nothing had been done yet when the Minister took office, say so, because that is the only way to create misunderstandings. Mr. Chairman. A crisis must, of course, be fought by us, but also by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u35	I now hear Mr Janssen of the SP argue that fundamental rights should not be placed in a temporary law and not in a toolbox but in a safe and to give Parliament the key. At the same time, however, I hear Mr Janssen now arguing in favour of making a permanent law possible, in order to enable the same violation of fundamental rights to be permanent. The question is whether such a permanent law is the key to the parliament or, ultimately, whether it is also the minister's responsibility, or perhaps other bodies. Then why is Mr Janssen so double in his story, saying on the one hand that the temporary law must be removed but on the other hand that he wants to make that same fundamental rights attack possible in a permanent law on a permanent basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u36	Then Mr Van Hattem should listen carefully, because I said that I do not know whether we can count on our support for the proposal put forward by the Minister to anchor it in the Wpg. Then we'll have to look at the control. As you know, in the Janssen cum suis motion, I have advocated decisive control of Parliament, not just for the House of Representatives but for Parliament. I said at the beginning of my speech that parliamentary relations should be such that the key to that safe is in parliament, Mr Van Hattem. That's what you belong to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u37	But the Janssen motion was only aimed at the temporary law. At the same time, I hear you making a lot of noise again in order to make it permanent possible in a permanent law. What is now being redesigned from the cabinet are powers that come mainly with the cabinet and perhaps even with other bodies. Can Mr Janssen, when he advocates a permanent law, make it clear that there can be no possibility of permanent violations of fundamental rights in the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Van Hattem must then listen to my answer, as he should have listened to my first speech, in which I said that was also the basis of the Janssen and others motion. which has been submitted here, that the decisive control belongs to the parliament on fundamental rights and not to the cabinet. So I repeat my answer because you do not listen twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u39	No, I listened very carefully. That Janssen motion was aimed at the temporary law, not a permanent law. So once again, if there is a permanent law, can Mr Janssen clearly state that there should be no permanent powers in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u40	Yes, that was the whole tone of the beginning of my speech and that was the core of the Janssen motion as adopted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u41	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. A crisis must, of course, be combated by a cabinet. "Managed," you can say for me, too. But what you can never manage as a cabinet is fundamental rights and parliament. In previous debates, I have already talked about this and asked for attention to be paid to it. Fundamental rights must be cherished, secured and protected, and Parliament must receive in good time the information it needs to be able to carefully weigh and decide, requested and unsolicited, and not just information that has been judged by the Cabinet as "need to know." It is of course not good that we later read from Wob requests and reports information that Parliament has not received and that gives a different picture of the reality outlined by the cabinet. This minister has only been there for a few months and, of course, the Minister is responsible for the actions of his predecessors, but that is not what I am concerned about. I would particularly like to appeal here today to the Minister for his own actions and to call for an open mind about the past, be open about the present and be open about the future. I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In February, the Minister indicated that he did not know whether there would be a sixth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. In the meantime, the sixth extension is pending and at least a seventh extension as of 1 September is inevitable. Further extensions depend on possible legal treatment of inclusion in the Wpg of measures. At least that's a timetable as the Minister suggests. The minister says he wants a toolbox in case the situation gives rise to it again. But that also brings me to the question of whether the Minister has arranged the toolboxes and wallets of the entire COVID-19 chain for a possible next phase of COVID-19. Does the Minister have this chain in order? As it happened last time, of course, it can't be done again. Everyone has walked their legs away from under the body and there's nothing wrong with that, but it was wood-rope work and it started to hang and strangle. Is it in order for the next phase? In concrete terms, I have the following questions to the Minister. Is the GGD equipped, for example, in terms of people, facilities and resources? Are the laboratories in order in terms of people, facilities and resources? Is RIVM equipped in terms of people, facilities and resources to be able to advise again? Is the health advisory chain in order, both in terms of people, facilities and resources? Have the Health Council and Lareb been arranged or are they currently running the Cabinet wallet? These are things you can't take care of at the last minute. These aren't things you're not gonna take care of until the need comes to the man. I would like to hear from the Minister what the current state of affairs is with the various organisations I mentioned. Mr. Chairman. For my group, it has been clear for some time now that we need to put an end to the undesirable situation of restricting fundamental rights on the basis of a temporary law which is constantly being renewed. I repeat that measures may still be needed. The situation could give rise to this. I just heard the interruptions from the exam Mrs. De Boer took during her term. There's nothing wrong with emergency regulations. They are there to fight an acute crisis for a short time. Only, where did it go wrong last time? The acute crisis turned out to be much longer than we thought. It turned out that the emergency regulations went way beyond their expiry date. So there had to be something else to do with that. So emergency regulations are fine in an acute situation. It gives us time to take care of other things in the meantime. That's the point. The situation may again give rise to new measures, but we should not continue to muddle with a temporary law that has been made semi-permanent in the meantime. It's better to start with a blank sheet now. When the need arises, we do what is necessary to take action on the basis of emergency legislation and regulations, which are therefore well anchored in both temporality and control. We've learned that lesson together by now. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, my group, the SP Group, will not support the fifth extension. We hope that the First Chamber will reach this verdict by majority, so that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 will cease to exist within two days of the vote. We hope, of course, that there will be no need for new measures, but if they are needed, we hope that this Chamber will always take its responsibility at any time of the year, in recesses, outside part-sessions, at any time of the week, to do what is necessary to combat the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I give the floor to Mr Otten of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. Polder model is looking for virus! For example, the Dutch approach to the corona crisis since 2020 is best summarized. For two years, the Dutch polderians have been persistently trying to force the corona virus into the polders, as the polderers tackle every problem in the Netherlands. But the polder variant didn't appear in the virus's dictionary. With reverse RIVM models, recording figures in hospitals led to two years behind the facts. A poorly managed and clumsy organized GGD with a senior politician in charge, who could not scale up time with testing, vaccination and boosters. OMT members who crossed swords daily in talk shows as if their lives depended on it. A VWS minister who frequently misjudged and caused enormous distrust in society with his inimitable corona policy. For the record, Mr President, I am, of course, talking about the minister's predecessor. That will immediately be understood by any good understandor. To the extent of disaster, all of this was overwhelmed with a great deal of fake news and conspiracy. There was little action from the government. That was, in short, the unique Dutch approach to the corona crisis. That is why our expectations were high when this new minister of VWS took office. Finally, a medic who understands what he's doing. At least there has been some calm in the policy, now that the permanent Selbstdarstellungs project has found shelter in the Ministry of Housing. It's just that our feeling is that it's getting a little quiet right now. As far as we are concerned, Minister Kuipers is allowed to take tighter control and his valuable medical and organizational background quickly come to full maturity. The administrative care polder needs to be reorganised as a matter of urgency. That is the best long-term approach for future pandemics. When preparing for a war, you must first ensure that you have a well-organised and well-trained army organization. That should be priority number one in all long-term plans. In a crisis you must be able to act quickly and effectively, and that is what our outdated polder, which is being held on to here in The Hague, is not at all suitable for. This has been sufficiently demonstrated in recent years with the half-hearted approach to the corona crisis. The structure of decision-making in this country is no longer today. Our group has also pointed this out many times since the start of the crisis, but the quarter does not want to fall, not even in politics. One is determined to continue to muddle in this archaic polder swamp. Mr. Chairman. We're not prepared for another outbreak right now. The number of ic-beds has not increased, it even seems that the expansion of the number of ic-beds was actively opposed by the Ministry. This is evident from recent publications. Care workers are losing out, partly because of a structurally poor remuneration, and there is still a lot of absenteeism. There's no plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Otten, I'm afraid you won't have a text for the policy debate in a few weeks' time. I would like to say that it may be possible to go a little bit more to today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u46	That's where I'd just landed, Mr. Chairman. So that's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u47	Look, I felt it in my water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u48	However, I would like to point out that a number of other speakers were also ahead of the policy debate. There's no plan, the minister said yesterday. Make your own plan, I heard the minister say. In other words, figure it out yourself. Our group is disappointed at the fact that the Minister, like his predecessor, is now taking on an easy fifth and sixth extension of the disproportionate temporary law. There has been plenty of time to come up with a decent, permanent change to the Public Health Act. But apparently the Ministry isn't capable of that. That's what the minister's gonna have to do. If necessary, this should have human consequences if the present crew is not able to do so. There has now been two years to prepare a good law based on the Public Health Act. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. This fifth extension is a bridge too far. The Council of State quite rightly concluded this in an opinion which appeared one hour after the vote on the fourth extension on 22 February earlier this year. If the coronavirus has brought one thing to light, it is that we have an archaic governance system that runs on its last legs and is urgently in need of decisive rationalization and modernisation. This also concerns the financial direction of the department. The Court of Auditors has also made the necessary observations on this. There has been no clearance of accounts for many years; billions of expenditure cannot be accounted for. So we would also like to call on the Minister to appoint good financial people at the top of his ministry and to get the administrative organisation in order. Mr. Chairman. In the corona crisis, all kinds of emergency and emergency legislation have been taken far too quickly. This has taken a great deal of time and energy, while the crisis was an excellent opportunity to tackle the endless polder with decisive and transparent measures and with fair and transparent communication to the Dutch population. Temporary measures take the longest. We have consistently argued this since the first debate on this law, and we have also asked in October 2020 how we will ever get rid of this temporary law, because every minister or his successor will say that he may ever need the powers in the future. This has always been the case with previous temporary legislation. Some temporary laws have been in existence for 80 years. So, as far as our group is concerned, today is the time for this House to draw a line in extending this disproportionate temporary law over and over again. We therefore call on everyone, like our group, to vote against the fifth extension. There is, of course, no question of a sixth extension. So much for our advice to this First Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Hattem of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. The tone in the media of the past week is that the First Chamber is probably not going to vote for the fifth today and thus the sixth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. If this temporary emergency law disappears into the trash today, it is of course very good news in itself. This law was from the outset a disproportionate restriction of civil liberties. Under the present circumstances, further extensions are therefore already dreaming out loud about a seventh extension as of 1 September. In October 2020 this law was presented as a very temporary law, only for the acute need for a period of only three months. But now this law has been going on for almost two years. It turned out to be an extension, whereby the Cabinet of a Chamber majority was given a blank cheque over and over again to continue and to impose on society through these law lockdowns, QR-corona access cards and other freedom-limiting measures whose effectiveness was never clearly demonstrated. If today a majority decides to vote away the Temporary Law measures covid-19, the Twm, another Trojan horse is at the door. Thanks to the De Boer motion by GroenLinks, it is essential that permanent legislation be adopted quickly in order to take legally binding measures. The limitations of fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens then pass from a temporary to a permanent law. As Minister Kuipers is already working hard with different effects of this, today's vote-out of the Twm by a number of parties is mainly a show for the stage and from this autumn we are not temporarily but permanently committed to the use of these restrictions of freedom. The Minister of VWS is therefore working on options for a bridging law and a permanent amendment of the Public Health Act. As a basis for the structural embedding of the responsibilities, he focuses on the status as A-disease and even on any future A-disease. That objective puts the previous codification of SARS-CoV-2 as A disease in a different light. This formalisation of the Minister's designation of A status was then mainly presented as a technical-administrative handling with little impact. As a PVV group, we warned back then that this is a step with far-reaching consequences for the use of powers. And now the monkey comes out of the ministerial sleeve. It is indeed about this A status as a permanent basis for pushing through measures. The question is therefore for the Minister: does he not make improper use of this A status in this way, especially now that the virus has been greatly weakened in terms of mortality? How long does the Minister intend to maintain this A status and under what specific conditions? The Public Health Act also gives the Minister of VWS direct far-reaching powers to intervene in the outbreak of an A disease. Can the Minister state what his legal framework is to make use of these powers? Does the Minister intend to do so if the Twm expires now? Is the Minister prepared, instead of using those powers, to provide for a different legislative proposal to withdraw SARS-CoV-2's A status, since, under the current circumstances, the severity of the virus is totally uncompromising with the situation in January 2020? In the explanatory note to the sixth extension, the Minister states: "The acute corona crisis seems to be over, but corona remains among us." And, "Well, we know that corona stays among us. The virus won't go away anymore." With this reasoning, there will always be an argument for such legislation to be kept in the air, because coronaviruses were already there before this outbreak and will indeed continue to exist, but not necessarily with the same serious effects. The question of whether this temporary emergency act should continue should therefore not depend on the existence of the virus and possibly future outbreaks, but on whether there is an acute crisis. That is no longer the case. The basis for the extension of that law is therefore no longer valid. However, the Minister states that RIVM and the World Health Organisation, the WHO, consider it too early to regard COOVID-19 as a flu. They therefore want to focus on a further extension. The Minister also bases his qualification of A status primarily on WHO findings. According to its mandate, the WHO can determine whether there is a pandemic. However, the question is whether, as a country, you should be so determined by this organisation, as the Minister does in his support. After all, the WHO is under far-reaching influence and pressure from the Chinese Communist dictatorship. This week, The Daily Telegraph headlined "A WHO pandemic pact would leave the world at China's mercy." This article refers to the new WTO Convention on International Pandemic Preparedness currently in preparation. At the international summit of the World Health Assembly, the pandemic agreement will be on the agenda on 22 May. That should greatly increase the power of the WHO to intervene in sovereign countries in the event of a future pandemic outbreak. For example, the WTO could enforce lockdowns in countries through binding international law. In response to questions from the House of Representatives, the Cabinet indicated that the Netherlands' commitment to the negotiations on this Convention is aimed at reaching binding agreements for the prevention, preparedness and handling of pandemics by Member States, in particular to seek cooperation with the WHO. In short, once this treaty is in force, the WTO will be able to decide for our country what measures should be taken here. Within the WHO, China has a dangerously large influence. The fact that Taiwan is not allowed to participate in the treaty negotiations under pressure from China is significant. Over the last two years, it has also become clear that the WHO has been primarily concerned with the praise of China's covid strategy and, among other things, with critical research into the causes of the COVID-19 outbreak at the Wuhan laboratory. China managed to keep the sources of the Wuhan virus out of the WHO reports with power and manipulation. Last year the American government of Biden expressed its concern about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr. Van Hattem, I'm afraid you too won't have much left to talk about policy in July. I would ask you to limit it a little bit more to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u52	Yes, Mr President, but this has to do with what is now ahead of us in terms of extension and its permanent consequences. Moreover, the Minister has also explicitly involved the long-term strategy in his support for the sixth extension, which is why I am taking this forward view with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u53	Okay. I see Mr Otten has a question for you. So I'll give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u54	Well, I have more of a point of order. I agree with Mr Van Hattem that the Minister himself is indeed placing the extension within the framework of policy, the long-term and so on. I'm the one you've been interfering with. I would ask you to deal with the context of this debate a little more effectively. That is a point of order on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u55	I take note of that. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can reassure you. I have no doubt enough to speak about at the next debate; I can assure you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u57	Then I'm really reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u58	This is in line with what the previous US Secretary of State, Pompeo, said in 2020, namely that the Director-General of the WHO was bought by the Chinese government and that the WHO is mainly a political, non-scientific organisation. If the WHO is already critical of China, then there will be direct repercussions of the Chinese government. Last week, China censored the World Trade Organisation's top man after calling the Chinese zerocovid approach untenable. With the current Chinese zeroo-vid strategy, in which China locks up and seriously abuses citizens, there is no longer the fight against an epidemic, but the repression and total control of citizens. The Chinese regime therefore has every interest in maintaining A status through the WHO for political reasons. In short, is this minister even longer in his assessment of the fight against corona, and of the A status in particular, in the case of the WTO influenced by China? Why is it that the cabinet is so strongly committed to binding powers for the WTO? Is it the intention of this Minister to have the measures of the temporary law, which we may have repealed today, imposed on our country by the WTO, without any further comment? Mr. Chairman. In supporting the extension, the Minister repeatedly looks ahead to his long-term strategy. He states that the aim of the strategy is to "ensure the open society." But can the Minister state what he means by an open society? Is that a society that is open to everyone or is that strategy still excluding people who choose not to use, for example, a QR access code or who do not want to be vaccinated? I'd like a response. There is also the question of how the Minister sees this in the event of a possible extension of the Twm, should it happen today, especially now that new outbreaks and lockdowns have been heard in the media over the last few days. The Minister also mentioned in the memo "an effective composition of measures until 1 September at the time of the first outbreak of the virus, if access to the care chain appears to be compromised for all or the continuity of society." Can the Minister indicate how and on what basis the effectiveness of these measures will then be determined? What exactly does the Minister mean by the continuity of society? How and by whom? What are the concrete indicators in all of this? As far as the care chain is concerned, what is the Minister doing to scale up the capacity of the care chain and in particular its ic capacity? To what extent is this already being done? What role does the Minister see in this for health insurers? Will the Minister also make further arrangements with health insurers to maintain access to the healthcare chain in view of the funding and quality objectives? In replying to our written questions on the sixth extension, the Minister states that by considering the facts of the epidemiological and social situation, Hattem's motion for a resolution on each decision is being implemented in the measures. In this way, however, the Minister gives a different interpretation of the explanation of the motion. Concrete indicators for the measures which make the measures measurable and verifiable by the people's representatives are not given as such. Can the Minister indicate whether he will do so in the event of any future action? Furthermore, the Minister himself states that the expiry of legal bases can be dealt with by emergency legislation as a possible route to provide for these legal bases. If the Minister himself clearly sees this as a possible route, why do we want to extend this Twm? Isn't that just completely disproportionate? In the note, the Minister stated on the legal framework of the Twm that, within the administrative context, municipal councils with the Twm had been given more control over rather than keeping the powers with the presidents of the security regions. Can the Minister indicate to what extent municipal councils have actually been able to make use of this now that most of the measures based on the Twm have been declared by the government? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I already indicated that Troy's horse is at the door. This horse comes from several frameworks that allow all the measures that can be taken today with the Twm to be equally imposed on our society. A bridging law, a permanent change to the Public Health Act, the use of powers based on the A status and the binding measures of the WHO Convention. But Brussels is also making a big deal of money. On 27 April, the unelected European Commission presented its Communication "COVID-19 - Maintaining the EU's preparedness and response: A look ahead." The EU states, I quote: "Although it is difficult to predict how the pandemic will develop, one thing is certain: COOVID-19 is no longer going away.'. This means above all: no matter how the pandemic develops, the EU's meddling will not go away. In this communication, the European Commission is particularly committed to imposing its own Brussels agenda on the Member States through corona measures. It states: "It is important to align the COOVID-19 recovery measures with the long-term climate, environmental and social objectives for better reconstruction." It's not just climate that gets dragged in with the hair. European fact-checkers on disinformation, digitalisation in health care and aid in Africa are also being forced by Brussels. The European Commission is also involved in various national issues, such as the vaccination of young children and the inclusion of COOVID-19 vaccination in national vaccination programmes. The European Commission also outlines five scenarios which include stricter restrictions on the population. What is the European Commission doing? The best cure for this is a nexit. But until then, is the Minister prepared to send the European Commission back into its booth? What is the Minister's position on this meddling Brussels communication? Can the Minister rule out the fact that we will be forced by the European Commission to impose further such measures under corona policy? How do these scenarios of the European Commission relate to the Minister's plans? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. At present, it is essential to make the existing Temporary Law measures disappear as quickly as possible and permanently in the trash. The PVV Group therefore hopes that today the majority in this Chamber will wake up from its mass anxiety psychosis and vote against this further extension, and thus vote against the fifth extension which the Twm will definitively abolish. In any case, the PVV votes against. To put an end to this disproportionate limitation of civil liberties and a completely unnecessary toolbox for the minister. Finally, in this first term, I shall table a motion on no binding agreements in the WTO Treaty. I'll read the motion with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u60	I'll read it to you. Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-Van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the WHO is preparing an "International treaty on pandemic prevention and preparation" extending the 2005 Convention (the International Health Regulation) (Pandemic Convention);]] [[Noting that, in replying to Parliamentary questions on the Dutch commitment to the negotiations currently under way on this Convention, the Cabinet indicated: "The Dutch commitment will be further developed, but is aimed at reaching binding agreements to improve the prevention, preparedness and handling of pandemics by Member States, which are in line with the view of the Netherlands in this area and with close cooperation with multilateral institutions, in particular the WHO.';]] [[noting that this Convention will continue to be negotiated in the short term;]] [[whereas agreements in this Convention are incorporated as binding provisions in the Dutch Public Health Act;]] [[whereas the Netherlands, as a sovereign country, should itself be concerned with its public health policy and it is undesirable for multilateral institutions such as the WHO to make this mandatory;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to refrain from any commitment to binding agreements in the negotiations on this Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u61	So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you. I heard three signatories, right, or four?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u63	If it's okay, at least four signatories.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u64	That is a total of five, and the motion is therefore sufficiently supported. Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. The next speaker on the list is Mr Recourt of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Twm is a temporary law, of course it is an open door. Today, for the fifth time, the question is whether it should be extended for three months. The cabinet will delete a number of measures at the time of the sixth renewal. Corona hasn't disappeared either, and she's not gonna disappear. New variants have recently been discovered. All measures introduced on the basis of the Twm have been abolished, but the Cabinet is now working on a permanent replacement law providing a firm legal basis under restrictions of freedom. A development of the virus may force us to re-introduce corona measures before the entry into force of that permanent law. These are the main reasons for the valid and practical arguments to vote in favour of the extension of the Twm for the time being. In short: the Twm as a precaution, better shy than shy, you don't know. On the other hand, there are arguments of a more fundamental nature. The Twm creates far-reaching powers for the government to intervene in the life and freedom of citizens. At the moment that this power allocation to the government is no longer proportional........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's why the Twm is a temporary law. At the moment, proportionality does not seem to be the case. No measure, with the exception of the duty to protect the mouth at airports, is required at the moment. If the need has been removed, the conclusion is that the temporary power of the government to severely restrict human freedoms must also be dropped. The starting point of the democratic rule of law is that the freedom of citizens must not be restricted by the government beyond what is necessary. That is the limit of the social contract that citizens have concluded with their fellow citizens in the form of government. We Social Democrats, who advocate a strong role of government in the regulation of society, fear an all-powerful government. I am curious to see how the liberal parties in this Chamber are motivating their considerations on this issue. Mr. Chairman. I see a spokesperson of a liberal party walking forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u66	You look like you asked a question. Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u67	I'm not going to answer this question right away. I would like to have the following clarification from Mr Recourt. In my opinion, it has been the case recently that if measures were no longer needed, they were also stopped by the cabinet. I think that's how we dealt with the Twm. In other words, if the Twm exists but doesn't have to be used, why isn't it proportional to have the Twm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u68	That's what I call "the balance of power." You leave far-reaching powers to the government. They go beyond what was considered desirable for corona in society. That far-reaching competence is therefore only necessary when it is necessary to combat the corona crisis. The moment it doesn't, you have to take away that power, regardless of whether it's being deployed. In the end, that is not what we are talking about today. It is a much more fundamental consideration, namely: how powerful do you want to have the government vis-à-vis the citizen? The most far-reaching situation is a dictatorship in which the government can do anything. You can say that you have a very wise dictator who doesn't use all his power, but we don't want that either. Of course, this goes much less far, but the principle is the same. The power has been assigned and whether you make that bet or not is another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u69	But isn't power granted only when the Dutch parliament has approved it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u70	Fortunately, reinforced by, among other things, the Janssen motion, Parliament has an influence on the measures that are made practical through the Twm. That is true, but it remains a shift of power towards the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u71	Thank you for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u72	Unfortunately, I cannot answer the question of how liberals feel about power and government. I know in any case that the Social Democrats have a tradition in which the government is given a lot of power. I am surprised that you say that the government has power when this law is passed, while the government can only use a certain instrument if both chambers agree. It is therefore, at most, a dormant power that can be updated by Parliament. When power sleeps and there is no real power, the government cannot be too powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u73	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u74	So I do not understand your reasoning on this point. Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u75	I remember a lot of debates in this house where measures had been put in place a long time ago when we came to talk about this. It is therefore for an important part afterwards and not in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u76	But at the end of the day, that's not an answer to my question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u77	I think so. We say to the government that the First Chamber will only come after the introduction of the measures. Again, it's being related. That's what I admitted when I asked you before. Of course it's related. It is not the case that Parliament has nothing more to say, but it remains a shift of power, of potential commitment of fundamental rights, which we did not consider desirable before. I'm not allowed to ask questions again, but otherwise you wouldn't need a temporary law, no Twm. Then you say to the government: here's the basket, do with it what you think is right and we'll see if we agree afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u78	Last time, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u79	My last question concerns the following. I find this argument somewhat disappointing by a Social Democrat party, because the victims of the corona crisis were the weak in society. The government has tried to mitigate this by the right laws. Now you say: I am not giving the government the power to protect those weak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u80	I really don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u81	But I would like to respond, because this is a completely crooked reasoning by Mr Verkerk. We have even supported many measures. We are very much in favour of protecting the weak, but we are also in favour of giving only that power to the government that is necessary, and not anymore. That is what social democracy stands for, like the Christian Union, I hope. We do have great expectations of market regulation and inequality of opportunity, and of the protection of the weak by the public authorities. The suggestion which lies under Mr Verkerk's question is therefore false.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u82	I also have a question about the power of the government. If you are against the content of this temporary law, rather than temporarily, but you are making it more substantive, then that would also mean that you will be opposed to a structural extension of the Wpg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u83	At the moment that permanent law is about to look exactly like the Twm, we need to look very carefully, yes... I'm a little bit hacking because you mention two elements. You say it's not about temporaryity, it's about content. It's about temporaryity. Of course, that temporaryity is there for a reason. We have said that this shift of power is temporary. We even give a short time to extend every time, because we think this is so profound: three months. But if you say you're going to abolish the temporary law, while you're about to make the exact same law permanent, we're going to have a tough discussion in September/October when it comes to this house. I assume that this permanent law in conjunction with other legislation, e.g. emergency legislation, which also needs to be updated and for which the Justice Department is responsible, provides a balance sheet on how, in current or acute situations, even in the longer term, you can properly implement necessary measures with prior consultation and approval by Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u84	Let me conclude from this that you are actually saying afterwards that this temporary law, which still states that there is control over certain measures if they are actually introduced, has not been the proper law for the situation we were in then either. Do I hear you say that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u85	No, definitely not. You hear me say that the need has fallen out at the moment. In fact, my own party, not in this house, but across the street, called for stricter measures when the crisis was higher. So I'm not against a government that intervenes firmly. I am against a government that continues to hold power where that is no longer necessary, where that is no longer proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u86	No, but she's gonna keep the power just in case. This also applies to an emergency law, and that also applies to a structural impact of the Public Health Act. It is always: power is there in case it is necessary. It's an emergency bill for that. That temporary law is also an emergency law. So completely understanding I don't do it, I notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u87	The liberals are being challenged, so please. For us, the principle of necessity is very important. Of course, we attach great importance to the freedom of people. It may be limited only if necessary by law. We have also properly regulated this in the Constitution. The Constitution also states that the public authorities have a duty of care when it comes to protecting public health. In this context, we have a Public Health Act in which a whole series of articles, in my opinion, deal with Articles 28 to 54 on the fight against infectious diseases. The mission of the government is to combat infectious diseases as they occur. These are articles in which the government can decide to take people into isolation or that people should be quarantined or undergo medical examinations. That's just out of necessity to fight an infectious disease. We already have those articles. Only the problem is that all these are on an individual level. This turned out to be insufficient in terms of the size of this pandemic. That's why the temporary law came into effect. So in fact, those foundations were too limited to be used for a large group. That's where the principle of necessity is. I don't quite understand your reasoning. You say this is the power of the government. No, it's protecting the population to settle this if it's necessary by law. Do you not agree with me that this is in fact also a matter for the Temporary Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u88	First of all, the beginning. Both the Public Health Act and the Emergency Law, according to the Council of State's spontaneous advice, were indeed not focused on the situation facing the Netherlands and the rest of the world. So it was indeed necessary to have a legal basis which allowed for the measures that were necessary at the time. That wasn't there. We created it with the temporary law as we are discussing it now. There were other possibilities, but I can remember the debates, in which we said: make them a specific temporary basis, because if the need falls away we will also drop this basis. That is a very conscious consideration. Why was that consideration made so deliberately at the time? We all saw that it went beyond what was already available in the existing legislation. The fact that the cabinet is still faced with the task of adapting both the Public Health Act and emergency legislation to a few smaller laws, so that next time we are not caught up in a crisis like the corona crisis, is beyond question. We'll talk about that later. But at the moment it remains true that we have said very consciously: we need a legal basis, we give it every three months, and if it is no longer necessary, we take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u89	I conclude that we have a different assessment of what is necessary when necessary. I think we all agree that it is fine that the measures have now been scaled down, but the discussion is about whether, in view of the unexpected possible revival of the virus, we really think it is still necessary to maintain this temporary law until proper permanent legislation is in place or to scale it down. We have no difference of opinion as to whether we need measures at the moment or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u90	But that is something you could have mentioned in your term. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u91	The Liberals are being challenged. I think that the Animal Party is, in a way, also liberal in the sense that we say: if there are no good grounds for attacking personal and individual freedom, the government should remain in its loft. I actually come to that dormant power that Mr Verkerk of the CHR, of the Christian Union, has still raised a problem. A dormant power...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u92	The seniority of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u93	A dormant power? Mr Recourt just referred to it, but if we go back to implementing the temporary law, didn't the coalition parties fall asleep a bit? Because when I read it like that, a law came into being saying that it is temporary. And I now quote the explanatory statement: "When there is no direct threat, Chapter Va may lapse." Then the whole basis of jurisdiction will lapse. It is not about the measures that are being taken, but about the basis of competence. Am I getting that right, Mr. Recourt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u94	Yes, that is at the heart of the debate we have had over the last ten minutes. It is not a question of concrete measures. It's what I call a power shift. And power shift is the granting of powers to the cabinet, the government in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mrs Prins raised the question of how we look at the temporary law, but I would also like to hear from Mr Recourt whether he agrees with our group. In that temporary law, we can only bring something in afterwards. That's one. And two: even the First Chamber has no say in the matter of concrete measures. Isn't that the big difference from a possible more fundamental law that still needs to be introduced? Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u96	We have also talked about this before. I assume that this new legislation, which should therefore include a broader framework than just measures on covid, will maximise Parliament's influence. So that means in advance, if possible. There too I say, and we all agree, that when that is not possible, you must of course be able to take measures with a KB or as quickly as possible. It is precisely in the case of covid, at the present stage, that I do not suspect that we are dealing with such drastic, very acute measures. I think there's always a few weeks ahead, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u97	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u98	Mr. Chairman. Temporary laws almost always tend to become permanent. This has a practical element, because it is useful. You don't know what the future will bring. But I'm afraid the psychological effect of habitation also plays a role here. At first, what seemed to be a major shift has now become normal. Making temporary terrorism legislation permanent without proof of effectiveness or necessity is a good example that we have recently discussed in this Chamber. For example, the balance of power slowly shifts from citizen to government with small, but striking steps on a permanent basis without the need to do so. We also discussed this just in the event of an interruption. This is a development in which the First Chamber should dwell on the assessment of laws restricting people's freedom. Does the government still need this power at this time? The answer of the PvdA Group to this question is still no. The government states that it may be necessary to act quickly. This may be the case if the spread of a new, very aggressive covid variant has to be delayed. In theory, all the measures from the Twm may be needed again and perhaps more. In that case, my group takes the view that, in such a particular circumstance, the right to emergency aid can be used for a short period of time, pending the adoption of tailor-made emergency legislation. This should also be the case in other emergency/emergency situations outside covid. I have also read the opinion of the Council of State on the sixth extension. There are about four scenarios conceivable. Only in the latter scenario are these legal bases necessary. That's an unlikely scenario, but then there are alternatives. This is without prejudice to the conclusion of the Council of State that it would not be justified to vote against the extension, which I found surprising in the text written for it. Nevertheless, my group specifically asks for a response from the Minister on this point. Mr President, it is clear. The group of the PvdA considers the extension of the Twm as it now stands disproportionately. This is in line with the motion adopted by this Chamber in a broad majority. We have already had a brief discussion on this. Unlike the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I believe that this motion has not been carried out sufficiently if you look at the list in which the government has very carefully listed what remains to be done after the sixth extension. That list is a lot longer than just those basic measures. The same applies to the letter we received on the permanent law. It was, then I say it neatly, rather vague. I don't have a very good idea of what that permanent law is gonna look like. As has been said, this position is based on a balance of interests. We are looking forward to supporting the balance of interests of the government. We are therefore waiting for the Minister's first-term reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u99	I can go a long way in Mr Recourt's speech. I have a question. On the front page of NRC Handelsblad last Friday there was an interview with Mr Recourt about this temporary law. I quote NRC Handelsblad: Jeroen Recourt (PvdA) believes that the Senate should draw a line: "If the need for the government to intervene so deeply in the freedom of citizens should be removed too." We fully agree with that. Can I conclude from this that the PvdA Group is going to vote against the fifth extension today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u100	I have just said it in so many words, but, of course, it is still the custom in this house to listen first to what the government has to say in this case. But you've got to come up with some good arguments. I haven't heard them so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u101	You are now trying to get the laughers on your hands, but the reason I am asking this question is: do I understand that there is still a possibility that the PvdA will still vote in favour of extending the fifth extension? Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u102	I do not need to be present in the debate if my opinion is 100% clear. But you have listened carefully when you hear that the provisional judgment of the Labour Party is that we are going to vote against extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u103	Thank you. You have reached the end of your term. I call Mr Van Dijk from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Nothing is as permanent as a temporary government program," a well-known quote by economist Milton Friedman. Anything of that's gonna crawl on you today, too. Sometimes it almost looks like we're in a merry-go-round. Always the same round with the same tune, like nothing changes. Again and again the government comes up with the umpteenth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and again and again the government must be reminded that temporary must also be temporary. A temporary extension is in the long term a contradiction in terms. The Council of State also considers that I quote 'the moment when a large part of the Twm cannot reasonably be extended is gradually approaching'. As far as the SGP is concerned, that moment has already passed. But at the same time, something has changed in the meantime. As a Chamber, we have now been given the opportunity to comment on the intended sixth extension before the new deadline of the law actually comes into effect. Meanwhile, the pandemic and the corona situation in the Netherlands are also changing. Indeed, we cannot just speak of an endemic situation. Corona's not the flu yet. The possible emergence of problematic variants can throw soot into the food. At the same time, it is also important to be sober and realistic. For the past two years, we've learned a lot from this virus. Patterns in contamination pressure and how they translate into greater pressure on care have become increasingly clear. So there is much more customization possible. Measures may indeed still be needed, with the emphasis on them. It's possible, but it doesn't have to be. The fight against infectious disease must not become a kind of exchange of fundamental rights.Temporary laws must also remain temporary, especially if they contain powers whose "potentially profound nature" is emphasised by the Council of State. The Twm must not hang over constitutional rights like a sword of Damocles. The current situation in the Netherlands is really insufficient. We have already had sufficient experience with each other, as has been said by several spokesmen, in order to adopt urgent legislation at a rapid pace should it prove necessary. The Twm continue to extend, in case, is not proportional and not desirable. That way we can indeed stay busy. It is good to show society that the government really does not want to stick to potentially far-reaching legislation unnecessarily and cramped. Then the contents of the Twm. In the De Boer motion, this Chamber stated that the fifth grant can only be approved if it is limited to the basic measures. I note that the government has not responded to this motion. Apart from the substantive objections, this means, I believe, that this fifth extension is unlikely to go ahead. This also means that the sixth extension is off the table. The SGP is very much in favour of this farewell scenario. For Mr Otten in particular, I say that this means that the SGP will vote against the extensions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Prins from the CDA Group. Oh, sorry. I call Mr Raven. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few months ago we discussed the fourth extension here. That was not an easy discussion for the cabinet, because there were quite the necessary questions, comments and points of discussion. That led to a decision that was not carried very widely, let me put it this way, but that at least made it to the finish line. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I must congratulate the Minister on the courageous decision to present the fifth extension. In the contributions so far, I hear a great deal from what was introduced last time. Then it's brave. I'm complimenting it, but I'm a little doubting it. You can also talk about the stubbornness of the cabinet to go through with this. The question is whether this is the approach we need now. Mr. Chairman. Then the fifth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Due to coordination problems and to replace the emergency regulations in the regions, this temporary law was introduced by the end of 2020. This gave the central government more opportunities to combat the pandemic adequately with national measures. Decentralised bodies were given less powers under the Wpg. The temporary law restricted various fundamental rights of citizens. The basis for this was in Article 22 of the Constitution, which instructs the government to ensure the health of the population. The starting point of the temporary law was, I would like to repeat this once again in order to return to the normal situation as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Nothing is more structural than temporary measures. The question is always: when can this temporaryity be lifted? This question is difficult to answer, especially in this case, as this debate affects many people. Yesterday, the hospital directors argued that the Netherlands is in danger of a new pandemic. The reason for this was a manifest shortage of staff, but they are responsible for this themselves. They would be responsible themselves in a normal situation in the first place to ensure that there is sufficient and adequate staff. Of course, there are a lot of problems in the labour market, but that does not mean that the government is always the one who has to solve it in the first place. I think that the long-term directors should also contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. For the OSF, it is established that temporary legislation should be terminated due to the non-necessary restriction of fundamental rights. Can we do that now? That's what we're asking the Minister. What happens if the Chamber doesn't extend the temporary law today? In our view, then, the legal situation arises that not the Minister, but the security regions, on the basis of the Wpg, will regain their control and everything will return to normal, as it has worked for a very long time in previous years before the crisis broke out. Is our observation correct? Do we just fall back into the situation of 2019 and previous years? What insurmountable risks will the Netherlands face if the mayors are able to get back to work within their regions. What is the Commission's position on this matter? What's wrong with that? That question, and in particular the answer to that question, will determine how we deal with the vote this evening. At a time when there is an alternative where problems can be avoided by a structure that has worked well for years, we wonder why you have to go through with that temporary law again now, when there are no more arguments for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you. Mrs Prins has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u108	Madam President. Today we are talking about whether or not to approve the fifth term and, if possible, the use of a sixth term of the Temporary Law measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u109	I see Mr Van Hattem standing. I thought you'd let Mrs. Prince talk first, Mr. Van Hattem, but no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order before Mrs Prins talks. I have the following point. Several speakers in these debates make good use of it to express it in advance when they have certain interests. Now I see that Mrs Prins is the speaker on behalf of the CDA Group today. I believe that there was another speaker on behalf of the CDA Group last time. I would nevertheless like to ask the following question, also in view of what has previously been changed in the Chamber and in view of what GRECO has recommended. Since 21 October last, Mrs Prins has been a member of the Supervisory Board of CZ Care.I wonder what GRECO would think of anyone who has such a great interest in the health care system going to speak here today without making it clear in advance. We now see the CDA standing here again after the mouth cap deal et cetera. Then I wonder: how pure is this? Hence the point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u111	I'd be happy to answer that. As I have correctly indicated in the Eerste Kamer overview, I think you have also made it clear that since October, I have been Commissioner for CZ, one of the many health insurance companies here in the Netherlands. I did not realize that you considered that relevant in this context......................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is quite clear that that is one of my positions, just as well that Mr. Van der Voort is also there from his expertise. He's a medical doctor in a hospital. Our group, like a number of other groups, believes that this extra piece of knowledge could only help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u112	Then I wonder what GRECO would think of this, if that is the guiding criterion here. It is not being declared proactively, but only now, when requested. Mr. Van der Voort, who is simply a medical practitioner employed at a hospital, I find something different from someone who is a member of a supervisory board with an organisation that has a direct interest in the use of this corona strategy. After all, in my debate I have just mentioned: what will be the commitment of health insurers to this approach? So I want to make a point of this. I address myself to the chairman. How is this handled? I do not think that the separation of interests is being made pure here. That is my point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u113	I see Mrs. Prince doesn't want to respond any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u114	I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u115	You will put the question to the President. It is good practice here to do what you do, namely address each other to possible interests that might exist. If you consider that an infringement has been committed and that an integrity issue is being raised, you can report it to the HC and then the HC will include it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u116	I didn't know Mrs. Prins was chief of health insurance at CZ. I would like to point out in this context that I tabled a motion in an earlier debate on the temporary law to use the more than 10 billion that the health insurers have to offer to raise the number of ICI beds. So this is relevant. People like Marcel Levi have also said that the health insurance companies are pressing their mustache in the corona debate and that they need to be tackled. That's what we addressed Minister Hugo de Jonge at the time. I even tabled a motion on it, which unfortunately did not make it at the time, I believe. We were also somewhat surprised by this, so in this respect our group agrees with Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u117	I understand the comment. I explained the procedure. Once again, if you think this is a serious matter, I would advise you to report it to HC, because that is the procedure we have set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u118	Madam President, thank you very much. I'm gonna start over; I think that's the best thing. Today we are talking about whether or not to approve the fifth term and, if possible, the use of the sixth term of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. The good news is that we can do this in a fairly relaxed atmosphere, given the covid situation in our country. Unfortunately, some still suffer from long covid and there are companies struggling hard to become profitable and future-proof again. But our society is no longer governed by covid and the freedom-limiting measures taken by it. The bad news is that today in this house we need to talk again about extending a temporary law as a legal basis for possible measures that violate our fundamental rights. Then it's about temporaryity. In May last year, almost a year ago, our group asked for a vision of the future and for structural laws and regulations, so that clear bases of competence have been established for taking the necessary measures to combat this virus if necessary. Even then, we assumed that COOVID-19 is not out of the world for the time being. The latter is now confirmed by the OMT, which indicates that we are still in a transition phase. By the way, the WHO also indicates this. Since July last year, commitments have been made by the government on several occasions. However, we still have to vote today on extending a temporary law. The CDA Group notes that not because of the government, but precisely because of the constant need for permanent legislation by the House of Representatives and the First Chamber, as well as the increasingly clear wording by the Council of State, there is now a written commitment that a first instalment for amending the Public Health Act will be sent to Parliament before 1 September of this year on the basis of powers for collective action to address A-infectious Diseases, including COVID-19. This leads the CDA Group to the question of how the government views the impact of the violation of fundamental rights on our society in all its diversity. I'd like a reflection on this. Madam President. If the fifth deadline is to be adopted today, then this week we will have to take a more concrete decision: today, a decision by the First Chamber will also be taken on the sixth term. It runs until September 1st. Should we, in fact, be preparing for an application for the extension of the seventh deadline? After all, discussing the bill for the structural adjustment of the Public Health Act still needs to be started. Has the government considered the timing of this extension, so in the middle of the recess? Couldn't have done otherwise, we ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we must also note that the covid virus is not stationary. We're seeing the intense footage of the lockdowns in China. We hear new variants of the covid virus have been detected in Africa. We hear the concerns of the various experts, as we heard yesterday in the House of Representatives. In addition, we know from previous years that especially in the autumn of the year, but it is already said in summer that the risk of contagion is increasing again. It is precisely in order to ensure that, with or without temporary legislation, we are better prepared for new outbreaks, that we now have to work on prevention and on activities, taking measures and making working arrangements if covid strikes again in this quiet covid period. The government itself states in its long-term objectives that ensuring social and economic continuity and vitality and ensuring the accessibility of the whole care chain are the new principles for everyone and that only in the third scenario, called "continuous struggle" is thought to be a possible use of mandatory measures, as currently possible according to the Twm. Mr. Chairman. The long-term strategy is still being discussed here in this Chamber. However, I would like to stress the need for concrete preparations to be made in these quiet covid months. We must no longer allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by a new outbreak of a known or unknown variant. Unfortunately, we have noticed that in recent covid years our society has not been sitting in cold clothes. Think of the many deceased and the sick, the depression among young people, the consequences for many entrepreneurs and for the cultural sector. We also saw that in the last covid period, confidence in government policies was falling sharply. It is therefore crucial for the feasibility and enforcement of the possible measures in the second half of this year, and for their confidence, that there is now clarity about the activities to be undertaken and that they can be used as early as September or already in the summer. The public authorities must be able to make it clear that they have carried out their part, their mission to protect public health with vigour and results. That is what the CDA Group is concerned about and, as it has shown since yesterday, many experts with us. Is the GGD really going to be ready when there is a need for extensive testing or vaccination? Unfortunately, the interview with the president of the national GGD in one of the newspapers was not reassuring. Is there already an intensive effort to invite 60-plussers to a next booster? Is one note gonna be enough? Are we now actively working to inform people in disadvantaged areas about the risks of covid and the importance of vaccination? Have the care parties made concrete agreements on how to deal with a new outbreak, with often higher absenteeism among nursing and medical staff? We would like to hear from the government to what extent the plans referred to have progressed in the long-term strategy, precisely because this will make possible measures more acceptable and more practicable. Mr. Chairman. My speech will show that we are not happy with the process of the necessary structural adjustment of the Public Health Act. At the same time, we consider it very important that the Netherlands is more prepared than ever for further outbreaks. The assignment stands. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u119	Thank you. I call Mr Nicolaï of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We still see it, the bottle of hand gel. It hasn't been touched by this new minister. I do remember, however, that in the beginning Minister Grapperhaus, among others, went to wash his hands every half an hour to achieve the hygiene that was apparently necessary. We have had to pursue a great deal of hygiene. Today it is also about hygiene, but in our opinion it is about legal hygiene. We have seen a period of unprecedented violations of fundamental rights. Actually, that's what everyone's been talking about. A period in particular in which citizens have been hit hard without power and without voice. What damage has been done to the youth, children who have had to swallow that they have been socially isolated. I'm thinking about the teenagers and the students. In the meantime, research has shown that one in five has thought about suicide. They were asked nothing when we put the measures in place. The power of the State was enormous and the guards of the State, those who could grant legal powers, but also limited them, have allowed much state power in need. I say "in distress." And it was, I add, under the express agreement "temporarily." Legal hygiene means that the far-reaching powers will be removed as soon as the need disappears and legal calm and legal wisdom will reign again. There is a danger that what has been temporarily introduced in distress will gain a hint of self-evidentity and habitation that leads to the acceptance of government power as a normal thing. That is a kind of legal virus that we must combat, and that is at the heart of this debate for our group today. Extend, extend, extend, and forget that we were very sharp at first. Only if there was an epidemic or if there was a direct threat, could the State have the toolbox. That's what the law said, and that's how it's still there. It must be about combating the epidemic or a direct threat of it, but there is no epidemic at the moment. And is there a threat, a direct threat? I'm not saying "a threat," but "a direct threat"; I may be too lawyer to bring that up anyway, but it doesn't say "threat" but "direct threat." And where is the legal hygiene if we agree that the state power can only have far-reaching powers in the event of a direct threat if this minister asks for the extension of those powers 'because it is impossible to predict whether society will be in a situation in the coming months that legal measures are necessary under the Twm'? "Unpredictable." If we listen to Marion Koopmans, this can never be predicted over the next few decades. For that reason, should we give the Minister at that time a toolbox which restricts fundamental rights? Surely that is not right with our agreement that there is only cause for this if there is evidence of an epidemic or if there is a direct threat? I have just read in an interruption what was said about this in the explanatory statement when we established this law. I would like to draw attention to the question of how this is going, because we are talking about the dormant power and the toolbox. I think it's very good if we understand that you have to distinguish three phases. In the first phase, the question is: is there a sleeping toolbox that needs to be activated? Then the question is whether there is an activated toolbox. And if it is then activated, how is the application of the tools from that toolbox? Today, in the Minister's proposal, we are actually talking about an activated toolbox, because the toolbox is there and can be applied immediately. I think that in that final law we should go to a sleeping toolbox that needs to be activated. Our group referred to this in a debate with the Minister months ago: see if you can make a dormant toolbox by analogy with emergency legislation! The Council of State also appears to refer to this in its latest opinions. If I have tasted it well, the Minister is actually working on that road as well. But we're not talking about that right now. We're talking about an activated toolbox right now. There is no reason for that at the moment. And if the minister says a sleeping toolbox is enough, why doesn't he suggest it? I come to a number of questions to the Minister, but it seems that I have a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u121	Well, I still decide that, Mr. Nicolaï. Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I hear Mr Nicolaï's speech like that, my impression is that he can appreciate the existence of such a Twm quite positively, but that is not the case anymore. My memory is not complete, so I wonder: has there been any of the extensions of the Twm where the Party voted for the Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u123	Well, I'm just gonna say this out of my head. I believe that we have not caused any problems in the first and second extensions, but that we have said, with each grant, that we cannot continue to extend, extend and extend. The Animal Party was not the only party that has always said so, because other groups have done so, and ultimately even the coalition. We voted against the last two extensions for this reason. We did not vote against because we believe that there should not be a sleeping toolbox, but because it should have been arranged this way a long time ago. That sleeping toolbox should have been here by now. And I would like to stress once again that in a sleeping toolbox there are several pieces of tools. To activate it, you will have to accept a parliamentary decision-making power. There is no such parliamentary decision-making power in this temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u124	So does Mr Nicolaï say that if the measures described for the sixth grant come into permanent legislation, with an activation system in which Parliament has control, that would be a nice effect for the Animal Party? Is that how I interpret it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u125	I don't know what's gonna be arranged in that bill with that sleeping toolbox. I do not know to what extent, in the opinion of our group, Parliament's involvement is sufficiently regulated. But it seems clear to me that there must be dormant powers because, apart from covid, there may be pandemics which at some point lead to the State being able to act in order to protect public health and other interests. I have not heard anyone here in the Chamber say that this should not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u126	I think that's a great prospect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr Nicolaï continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. I come to my questions to the Minister. My first question. Does the Minister agree with us that there is no direct threat at the moment and that Chapter 5a should therefore lapse, as stated in the explanatory statement? And in this context, what criteria does the Minister use to determine whether there is a direct threat? My next question. Does the Minister agree with us that no threat can be demonstrated at the moment? The third question. What does it stand for, I would almost say, "for heaven's sake" to stand in the way of which the government cannot, in a few weeks' time, come up with a bill in September which, as it were, regulates the sleeping toolbox? Apparently, there are things that stand in the way of this. Apparently, the Ministry isn't ready yet. Finally, I would like to join with Mr Janssen's questions. He says, "Let's open our minds about what has remained under your predecessor." Isn't it true that we've just been put on the wrong track by your predecessor? Then it was said: we are working on something. But is that perhaps not the case at all? Be honest with me about that. Because then we at least understand here in this Chamber why it all has to take so long. That has even led the coalition parties to support the De Boer motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u129	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group needs less speaking time than planned. I also announce that I will refrain from taking part in the second term because of overlap with all kinds of other activities on my part before the Upper Chamber. In short, save time for all. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the fifth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. That law expires on June 1st. Already 50PLUS noted that the word "temporarily" in this context evokes some cynicism, because there is now nothing temporary about this law and the measures that have been introduced. The sixth grant of the Twm is already planned and a seventh extension should be taken into account. It's reminiscent of "The Infinite Story" by Michael Ende from 1979, a neverending story. All measures brought together by the former VWS Minister in a so-called "toolbox" have been lifted, except for the use of masks at airports. But the toolbox itself must still remain open. The idea behind this is that we can do an ad hoc grab in this toolbox, which can again impose compelling measures when circumstances so require. Mr Nicolaï already referred to that active toolbox. However, no one can explain exactly what these circumstances actually mean. Is this when a revival of the current omikron variant occurs or a mutation of the virus? Is it when a combination of flu and covid increases the already existing staff shortages? Are measures imposed because the catching-up care is still not up to date? Is it because the U.S. Department frustrated the expansion of ic-beds? Who knows? Nor is it known exactly what long-term effects the various tools used have had on the spread of the virus. I would like to mention some of them: the notification application, the covid app, the curfew, the ban on receiving more than two people at home, the quarantine obligation, compulsory work at home, the closure of schools, compulsory tickets for hospitality and other institutions, the imposition of fines in the event of a breach of the 1.5 meter distance and the prohibition of cooperation. All measures which have individually violated the fundamental rights of citizens and whose effects, as is becoming increasingly clear, have caused enormous collateral damage. My group will be discussing this in detail in the broad co-vid debate scheduled for July. Mr. Chairman. Over and over again, for the use of measures or a combination of them, the very general argument used was that it was necessary to prevent the spread of the covid virus, but, to date, the actual effectiveness of the covid virus has not been scientifically demonstrated by individual mandatory measures. This means that, as a co-legislator, you are not in a position, per mandatory measure which infringes a fundamental right, to properly assess it against the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. The imposition and compliance do not force you with the thesis "before it does not, then it does not harm." Mr. Chairman. This toolbox containing a blunt saw, rusted hammer, worn nipples and curved nails should close in my group's opinion. Appropriate tools are needed in the form of legislation announced by the Minister. My group will assess the revision of the Public Health Act, the Wpg, on its own merits when it is submitted to our Chamber. Prior to that, my group would like to hear from the Minister not only how he sees the longer term corona policy, but also what implementing measures he has in mind, because it is just autumn. Mr. Chairman. To Mr Otten, too, a clear story: I will advise my group to vote against the fifth extension of the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u131	I'm a little confused. In my opinion, however, I may have experienced this quite differently from Mrs Baay.... the target group of the 50PLUS Group has benefited greatly from all the measures taken over the last two years. Or did I really interpret that completely differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u132	Of course, protection measures have not only protected the vulnerable, the elderly and, of course, people with underlying diseases. It was the protection of general health. It was necessary because there was a state of emergency. Two years ago, no one knew what this virus would cause, whether it would by definition have a deadly outcome for anyone who would get the virus or not. We are now two years further. There's a lot more known. Thank God there's also a vaccine, which we know has only a temporary effect. Hence the use of the booster, which only took place in the Netherlands on 18 November 2021, while surrounding countries had already started doing so in the summer months or on 1 September. They provided the protection that was needed at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u133	We don't have to agree on this, you know. But in my view, in this situation, in which many people are infected and are suffering from serious illness, it is precisely the elderly and the vulnerable who benefit from measures such as they should still be. Once again, I am surprised and I do not need an answer to that, but to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u134	Of course, someone may be surprised at any time, but I have made it quite clear that measures... You have not listened carefully to my contribution. The temporary law should also be temporary. That is the position of 50PLUS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u135	Thank you. The next item is Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the Fifth Extension Act Temporary measures covid-19, which is also referred to as the "Twm" for short. The expiry date of this extension is 1 June. Since the extension system of the Twm has been changed again, I would also like to raise the draft decision for the sixth extension, the pending procedure of which will apply until Thursday 19 May. Mr. Chairman. Life in the Netherlands seems to have more or less returned to the pre-corona crisis situation. For many people corona is over and the regained freedom tastes especially for more. From the responses I receive from people, I would point out that the support for legislation that continues to make it possible to adopt restrictive measures continues to decrease. So we have something to explain when we think that the Twm should be renewed and/or that it would be useful to establish additional bases for taking measures to combat A infectious diseases, including COVID-19, in permanent legislation. The aim of legislation is to influence or regulate the behaviour of citizens, businesses and institutions in situations where there is a need to do so and where the desired behaviour does not come about by itself or voluntarily. Such a need could be to avert a threat to public health, such as a pandemic caused by a serious infectious disease. The tricky thing about a pandemic is that citizens are not always aware of that threat. After all, a virus is invisible and often unpredictable, and does not have to be a direct threat to your health. But you can be a link in the distribution chain, putting other people's health at risk. First of all, I would like to say to the people listening at home: if it is necessary in the interests of public health, the Public Health Act, published in 2008, already contains the necessary provisions to take restrictive measures to combat infectious diseases. But the shortcoming of the Wpg is that the measures and legal protection in the case of, for example, isolation, quarantine and medical examinations are mainly aimed at individual cases. This turned out to be unworkable during the corona pandemic. In view of the rapid and widespread spread of the virus, measures had to be taken at national and even international level. In the absence of adequate legal instruments, therefore, the Temporary Law measures covid-19 have been put in place specifically for the purpose of combating the corona pandemic. The question before us now is whether, because of the current status quo of the pandemic, we consider it necessary to extend the Twm and in what form. Another question is whether we believe that the Wpg should be adapted so that, when a pandemic situation such as the corona outbreak occurs again, we do have an appropriate legislative toolbox, a legislative toolbox in which it is transparent how proportionality and necessity are assessed, how the fundamental interests of citizens, businesses and institutions are guaranteed, how measures can be activated and deactivated, and how parliamentary involvement is regulated. Furthermore, for a transparent balancing process, it is necessary to have a better understanding of the extent to which the measures contribute to the prevention of illness and death, compared to the health damage caused by those measures, such as delay of care, and the other social and economic damage. I would like to hear from the Minister how the understanding of the effectiveness of the measures can be improved. Previous groups have already referred to this. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group has already indicated in previous Corona debates that it is in favour of adapting the Wpg as soon as possible. With regard to the continuation and implementation of any measures to be taken, we have proposed a procedure similar to the one applied by the Extraordinary Law on Civil Authority. This is also advised by the Council of State, which seems to have been taken over by the Minister, as we see from the main letter of 4 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u137	I heard the VVD say that the extension of the temporary law depends on the corona situation and that we need to amend the Public Health Act as soon as possible. We have been waiting for this for two years, so my question to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman is: what is the definition of the VVD group of 'as soon as possible'? 'Cause for two years, I don't think it's really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u138	You're right. I told you, I think, more or less a year ago, I kept this same story. You may well know from me that we are rather displeased that this is taking far too long. Questions have been asked by various groups to the Minister, for example, what was at the time he became Minister. I would like to repeat once again that I am even pointing in a direction which is in line with what Mr Nicolaï has already indicated, which we believe should be subject to such a sleeping emergency law and how we can bring it in and out with Parliament's consent. So I'm gonna give you a direction of what the Wpg should look like for me. I admit that we are also displeased that it has remained for far too long, which means that we are now forced to consider it. With regard to the temporary law, we can say "okay, it's done now" or we can make a different assessment and say: for safety and for unforeseen circumstances, we probably choose the practical path. We also do not want to be in legal straits if the pandemic flares up again in the short term. So I'm gonna give you a preview for the rest of my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u139	Yes, but then, like Mr Nicolaï, he asked that, in my view, the question of how do you think it is that after two years there is still no bill from the Ministry of Health, all of which was promised in 2020 when the temporary law was being dealt with? So what does the VVD say is going wrong on the Ministry that doesn't get this? Can't they do it? Don't they have the good people? Don't they want it? Did they misinformed the case? What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u140	I'm not the U.S. Secretary of State, so you shouldn't ask me that question. I don't know what's happening inside VWS. I can only say that it cannot have been us, because we have insisted on making the Wpg permanent, so that we could put an end to the Temporary Law measures. So it wasn't up to us. But again, I'm not responsible for the U.S. Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u141	Okay. Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman has always asked me in all previous debates what we would do if we had to do it. So I thought I'd ask the same question. But I note that she is at least of the opinion that things are not going very fast with us. That's what we've been told.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u142	My question about what you would do was about the moment you rejected everything. I asked what solutions you then indicated. I was trying to give a very specific direction on how I see the interpretation of the Wpg. Read my plea. In fact, then, I would simply point in the direction in which we would like to see it resolved. I think I'm contributing to the solution. Mr. Chairman. In his letter of 4 May, the Minister indicated how he was going to give direction to the re-evaluation of the Wpg. The above-mentioned letter on the course set for the first tranche revision of Wpg has the agreement of the VVD Group. We would like to discuss this in more detail, including in relation to the review of emergency legislation and the policy debate on 5 July. For now, I shall confine myself to the first part of my question, namely whether, because of the current state of the pandemic, we still need to extend the Twm and in what form. I shall begin with the De Boer motion, which was co-signed by my group. The Court held that the fifth extension of the Twm can only be approved by this Chamber if the extension is limited to basic measures, such as distance, masks and hygiene measures, as well as the main elements of final legislation, in the light of the pandemic's unchanged favourable state of affairs. The motion called on the government to take this into account. This motion was filed at the time when the fifth extension was already ready to be published in the Official Journal the following day. An amendment to the fifth extension by the motion was therefore no longer possible. However, we now have the situation of a coincidence in the treatment of both the fifth and sixth extensions. I make use of this by examining the implementation of the De Boer motion not by the fifth, but by the sixth extension. I am also aware that if the fifth extension does not receive a majority in this Chamber, then the draft decision for the sixth extension is no longer on the table. So be it. In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the final part of the motion is satisfied with the main letter of 4 May, even though we are concerned about the timetable. We also note that the draft sixth extension Twm contains more foundations than the De Boer motion calls for. Some potentially far-reaching powers are maintained. According to the government, the draft decision provides for the maintenance of those bases which may be necessary to enable binding legal measures to be taken in the event of a revival of the pandemic in the short term. The articles on group formation, rules on contact professions, the possibility for educational institutions and childcare to close them and the corona access card are not renewed. The Council of State states that, given the uncertainty about the pandemic and the lack of an alternative legal basis for possible necessary measures, it understands the proposal of the sixth extension, but that the justification should reflect more clearly that the Twm is actually a temporary law. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group agrees with the opinion of the Council of State. We will therefore continue to vote in favour of the extension of the Twm. The VVD Group prefers, as I have already indicated in an interruption, the lock on the door for reopening the temporary measures of the House of Representatives. For example, we prefer this to fall back on emergency regulations. Moreover, we recommend to the Minister that the energy of his legislative lawyers should continue to focus on the revision of the Wpg rather than on another extension of the Twm. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a word on the content of the draft decision on the sixth extension of Twm. Under political pressure, the basis for the corona ticket in the Twm is not renewed, but at the same time the government chooses to maintain foundations for a partial or total closure of public places and events, Articles 58h and 58i. The aim of the CTB was to be able to open society faster and less quickly. In this sense, a less far-reaching measure has been deleted and the options for further action have been maintained. Several practical and principled objections have been raised to the corona access card, but on the other hand the importance of an open society is attached. We have all been able to experience how disruptive closures and not being able to meet each other, not being able to work together or celebrating for a society. The VVD lacks a transparent balance of interests. The government is now making a move to say to the arm that it will consider a new basis for the CTB if the sectors so request. However, I would like the Minister's undertaking that, in the context of the consideration of proportionality but also of subsidiarity, he will work actively to clarify the balance of interests between the use of the corona access card versus, for example, a lockdown or partial closure of sectors, and that he will inform us by letter so that we can take this into account in the forthcoming revision of the Public Health Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u143	I actually hear the VVD saying that we are now going to vote in favour of the extension because we are afraid that otherwise there will be no resources if accidents are to happen at once. I also heard her say that they do not choose to use these emergency regulations again. On that point, I would like to make one more point. If I understand correctly, the use of these emergency regulations was not a mistake at the beginning, but at some point the Council of State and the Government and the Chamber said that the continued use of these emergency regulations cannot be allowed. That's why we need that temporary law. What, then, is the VVD's view against the fact that these emergency regulations can be restored if an emergency situation occurs? Mr Raven has also mentioned this. And if there is nothing against that, why should the VVD vote in favour of the extension? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u144	I understand your question. It is indeed quite a difficult consideration. When I looked back, it was an important reason that I looked at the Council of State's advice at the time not to continue with those emergency regulations. This was particularly true of the lack of democratic legitimacy. Because of the temporary law, we as First and Second Chamber have at least been able to say something about the law and the system of the law. Part of this system is that measures can be taken and implemented with parliamentary involvement, knowing that there is a lot of grumpy in this Chamber that this parliamentary involvement has only been assigned to the House of Representatives. However, I would like to say that I believe that keeping Parliament's involvement alive at the moment is more important than an emergency regulation for the adoption and implementation of measures. That's a trade-off we're making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u145	But if there were another emergency situation, wouldn't that emergency regulation be for a very short time? In the meantime, Mrs De Boer has explicitly addressed this. In a few weeks you could put the system back into operation as we know it now. So at that point, I don't quite understand the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u146	Well, a few weeks... if the need is for the man, I'm really assuming that there should be a quick act. This means that measures must be able to be implemented quickly. Then I find a time of a few weeks in which we still have to work with emergency regulations for quite a long time. I think it's insecure. Again, that is a trade-off we are making. With the Twm you will at least keep a piece of that democratic legitimacy and parliamentary involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u147	I just heard the VVD talk about the importance of an open society, but at the same time the VVD is now also going to support further extension of these disproportionate fundamental rights violations of temporary law measures. So my question is: how does the VVD see an open society? What does the VVD understand and how does it relate to all the powers to close sectors and so on and to the exclusion of certain groups in society that make this law possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u148	My first approach is to ensure that final legislation is put in place, in which the need is better and clearer and the proportionality can be weighed down by both chambers. I also asked for a better understanding of the effects of the measures, so that we can indeed look at which measures have helped and which have not. Fortunately, at the moment no measures are needed and I hope that they will never be necessary, but at the same time I am not so naive to think that the virus is gone. In this sense, I would prefer that we should not be put back in legal straits when the need arises, as we had at the beginning of the crisis. That is the balance that we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u149	That is not the beginning of an answer to my question about what the VVD means in this context by an open society. These measures by the Twm, which do not have any proven effects, are now being held up. The VVD with its cabinet partners simply clings to it very strongly. There are, of course, the necessary consequences. She has just mentioned the closure of sectors and so on. What does the VVD now mean by an open society in the context of this law? What principles should such an open society comply with? How is that sustainable with the continuation of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u150	I think that, for the sake of clarity, we should first say that these are two different things: the law or the measures. An open society for me is indeed a society where there are no measures if there is really no need to combat infectious diseases. That's an open society for me. If there is to be another virus in which there is a danger to public health, then what is effective requires us to look very critically at what measures we are taking to reduce the risk, on the basis of what is effective, based on what is working and what is not working. That's what I mean by an open society. If I could, I would like the virus to stop being there, but that is not the reality. At the same time, I feel the responsibility to at least ensure that we are properly prepared, including in the legal sense, should the virus flare up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u151	There will always be a certain form variant of a coronavirus. With this reasoning, you stay in a continuous process. This raises the question of how it is sustainable to say: we are going to hold on to these bases of competence, as Mr Nicolaï rightly pointed out, in an open society without an acute need for it. How, according to the VVD, can this continue in an open society in this way? Why isn't it just said: we're gonna stop doing this; we're gonna go through a line here for the time being, and what's the next step, we're gonna see? At present, there is no acute need for these far-reaching, fundamental rights-based powers for the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u152	There is absolutely no acute need for action at the moment. They will not be affected. What matters to me, to the VVD Group, is that if we are back in that situation in a few weeks' time... Look back at the last few years, how long it took to be able to take a certain measure, with all the consequences of that. Then much more far-reaching measures were taken, because we did not have our regulations in order. I just don't want to go through that anymore. That is why I say: please put your foot on the road to a proper re-evaluation of the Public Health Act, but do not leave us empty-handed in the meantime. I'll make a plea for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u153	However, the last point made by Mr Van Hattem is just a few moments later. I hear Mrs De Bruijn say in her reply that there is no acute need for a measure and that we must distinguish between the measures and the power to take measures. That's the basis. I also hear her say that we must ensure that the legal instruments are in order. I would very much like to know how Mrs De Bruijn, how her group weighs it legally. Mr. Nicolaï has already mentioned it. When we voted on the entry into force of the Twm, the explanatory statement made it quite clear that it is a temporary law, which can only last as long as there is a need for it, as long as there is a direct threat. I fully understand the need to keep a temporary law in case, but we are here not only to satisfy those kinds of needs, but also for legal hygiene and to say: this is a temporary law. We must then assess whether there is a direct threat. Do you see a direct threat? If so, what does it consist of? If not, do you agree with me that there is actually only one conclusion, namely that there is no reason to extend the Twm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u154	I'm not a virologist, so I'm afraid I can't make the assessment of whether there's a direct threat. We have the legal terms and the white coats, to put it this way, but I do find it very difficult to really weigh purely legally whether there is a direct threat. I don't know. However, there are signs that the virus can mutate and, so to speak, we've been through that before..... could be here in 48 hours. I do not want a doomsday scenario, but I do think we have that weighting... because in fact you are also talking about permanent legislation. However, permanent legislation is also based on the basis for action when there is an infectious disease, a threat to public health. Even then it's in there. You can only hang it now by the word "temporary." We probably thought the pandemic was temporary then, too. But we do not have the choice to go into a vacuum between the final legislative process, which once again provides the basis for action, and now to drop it completely. By the way, that doesn't just apply to us. I understand the Council of State is doing the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u155	The Council of State shows understanding; I think that is something other than that they think it is a good idea. I still feel like we're talking at different levels and we're not getting closer. But I also note that Mrs De Bruijn cannot, in any case, indicate the direct threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u156	A brief question to Mrs De Bruijn. In the hypothetical case that specific legislation on epidemics and pandemics may not be adopted for another six months or a year, does that mean, for Mrs De Bruijn and her group, that there will be an endless extension of the Twm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u157	That's never gonna be rash. We're not doing that all the time. That is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u158	Then what's your weighting, if it's not blunt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u159	I will determine that at that time, just as I gave my weighting to that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u160	Finally, Mr President. What exactly was the weighting in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u161	The weighting in this case was that we said that this final legislation should be put in place. We need to get to work on that quickly. I even asked the Minister: is the deadline not too optimistic? Right now, we're saying there's still too many uncertainties. We are now choosing to close the door, so that at least there is a parliamentary involvement in re-inciting the measures, in the sense of the House of Representatives. However, if the Minister has been dogged with final legislation for too long, then perhaps next time we will also come to another consideration. And if the virus continues to behave as it is now, then we may also come to another consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u162	I have just heard Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman from the VVD call out the term 'democratic legitimacy'. That is apparently the partyline of the cabinet today, because when I woke up this morning and saw Secretary of State Van Ooijen on WNL, he also immediately mentioned democratic legitimacy. I also see it appearing everywhere on Twitter. What do you think is the democratic legitimacy? If that was apparently thought up by the spindoctors, then the minister will be using it in no time. According to Mrs De Bruijn of the VVD, is democratic legitimacy to introduce a far-reaching temporary law that violates fundamental rights, without the prior consent of the First Chamber? Is that democratic legitimacy, as far as you're concerned? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u163	Maybe I should catch up with Mr. Otten, but we in the First Chamber also voted on the Twm. I'm sorry, but the law is democratically legitimized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u164	No, because I told you in the treatment of the Twm that the First Chamber put itself out of play. I also said at the time: a First Chamber which cannot defend its own rights loses its right to exist. You agreed to the extension. We are, of course, talking about an extension which is subsequently approved. That's not democratic legitimacy, is it? What are you talking about? What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u165	I think Mr. Otten should be better informed. The Twm has been an ordinary law that has passed through both chambers. You are creating confusion with your fact about the measures. We have no control over the ministerial arrangements. That's what Mr. Janssen started working on. In the end, we have now been given control over the extension. That is also democratic legitimacy. Then our control over the extension in a pending procedure in the sixth extension came back to us. So we can now say yes or no to the extension. That is democratic legitimacy. I'm sorry, but I just can't explain it any other way. I think Mr. Otten should get a little more information on how these cases work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u166	Okay. I have one last question. If you are so well informed: what is the fifth and sixth extensions today? Would you mind telling me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u167	Can you both speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u168	Sorry, Chairman, excuse me. Can I still answer? Thank you. The fifth extension will take place from 1 March to 1 June. That has been a regular legislative process. The House of Representatives took quite a long time, because of a full agenda. It's just here now. The sixth extension will take effect on 1 June. This is the subject of the pending procedure, which is due to expire next Thursday. We can therefore indicate whether or not we agree to this on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u169	I note, therefore, that today, on 17 May, we are indeed talking about an extension from 1 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u170	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u171	I don't call that democratic legitimacy. That's because you agreed to a temporary law. The First Chamber has allowed itself to maneuver into that position. That's why we need to stop doing that now. In any case, I can see how moving the VVD is doing me good, but it would be better if you drew a line now, just like many other groups in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u172	I'd like to speak through the chairman, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u173	Mr President, may I reply? I have a problem with Mr. Otten asking me all sorts of procedural questions. Again, neither I nor the VVD Group in the Upper Chamber are concerned about that. We are talking about our voting behaviour and not about how procedures have been set up. I'd like to say that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. The next speaker is Mr Van der Voort. He signed up for 15 minutes. I see he's ready to stand up. We really need to suspend at 12.15 p.m. in connection with a committee meeting. I'm sure you'll want to interrupt Mr. Van der Voort. My proposal is therefore to suspend now and to allow Mr van der Voort's term to begin after lunch so that you have all the time and space to question him on his points of view. I shall now suspend the sitting. Oh, I see Mrs. De Boer getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u175	If I am correct, then we are somewhat inclined to the planned time. I don't know if that's true. If that is the case, I would like to ask whether it is possible for us to extend the suspension for dinner by 15 minutes, in connection with an expert meeting that is planned. Then those who have to attend both meetings will have half an hour to have dinner instead of fifteen minutes. So can we start tonight at 7:00 instead of 6:45 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u176	It's true that we have more time left. This is because on average you have overwritten more than 30% of your time. I think that's pretty special. There are people among you who have only used 50% of the time. Maybe I could give you a tip for that? I believe that many of you have the text at least a week in advance. If not, you will have the text a few days in advance. It would be useful, if you knew you were going to use less time, to inform the Registry, so that the schedule is more accurate. I will respond to your request. So we'll extend dinner break by 15 minutes. Then you can attend the expert meeting. I guess we'll still be done in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-eerstekamer-3.u177	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. before lunch.
