ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35401, Amendment of the Public Health Act to the incorporation of the 2019-nCoV Scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by welcoming the Minister and let us start with a nice debate today. Mr. Chairman. COVID-19 has temporarily resulted in increased mortality, especially in elderly people suffering from underlying suffering. The extent of excess mortality is very different per country and strongly depends on factors such as seasonality, mortality in previous years, region, age structure of the population, cross-immunity due to previous coronaviruses and overall metabolic health of the population. For example, obesity, diabetes, vitamin D deficiencies and so on. Despite the transiently increased mortality, the mortality of COVID-19 is low compared to infectious diseases in group A. There are different values around, but let me assume what the Minister has indicated. He indicates that the calculated mortality of COVID-19 in the Netherlands is 0.9%. This is probably much lower, because you hear numbers of 0.15% and 0.23%, but let us give the Minister the benefit of the doubt. Compared to some infectious diseases A: the mortality of typhoid abdominal is 10% to 25%, of Ebola 50%, of the plague and rabies 100%. Why should COVID-19 with such a low mortality be considered an infectious disease A? Other infectious diseases A are only rare and have a very high mortality rate. Infectious diseases A must therefore be reported by the treating physician to the GGD by telephone. COVID-19 now has extremely low mortality and extremely high frequency of occurrence. That means that the whole report is going to create a huge, inexhaustible bureaucracy. That money is better spent on good care. Mr. Chairman. It is not clear why, after this bill has been on the shelf for two years, the Minister now wants to quickly classify COOVID-19 into the group of infectious diseases A. This is even more surprising after last Wednesday, when the Minister in the Lower House indicated that the First Chamber did not have to approve the A-status at all. When asked why it goes to the First Chamber at all, if it doesn't have to, the Minister couldn't give an answer at that time. But who put this bill on the Senate's agenda as a matter of urgency? Why are we dealing with this bill here at all and why is the Minister not simply withdrawing it if it is unnecessary? Why does the Minister suddenly want to use steam and boiling water to use himself a toolbox with far-reaching powers to combat a COVID-19 epidemic or a direct threat to it? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. These powers concern not only measures aimed at buildings, goods, means of transport, ports and airports, but also far-reaching measures that can be imposed on citizens. For example, you should consider isolation, medical examination, quarantine, a professional ban. And this can only be done if there is a direct threat of an epidemic, but what is "a direct threat"? Are indicators established or are they already available? When is there an epidemic? Under what conditions is there an epidemic? And who or what organization is leading this cabinet to determine that? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the corona crisis a goal was set, but if you change the target each time, you'll never make it. Scaling down the number of hospital beds and the many redundancies in care have cost us dearly. There is a lack of capacity, thanks to the Rutte Cabinets. A capacity problem or a potential capacity problem for hospitals and general practitioners can lead to a notification to the GGD. A reporting obligation is one of the conditions for classification in the group of infectious diseases A. In addition, major capacity problems may make national direction desirable for the Minister of VWS. For example, on paper you can create an infectious disease belonging to Group A, accompanied by far-reaching powers for the Minister. It was logical that in the first place the pressure had to be removed from the hospitals. The first goal was to reduce the number of ICU patients with corona. Afterwards the target was adjusted and the number of hospitalizations with corona had to be reduced. When these hospitalizations were drastically reduced, the goal shifted to reducing the number of infections. Of course, there were severely ill patients. Of course, there were patients who died. That has caused a great deal of suffering and a great deal of grief. But shouldn't we be asking whether all these patients were admitted because of corona or corona? And did the deceased patients die of corona or corona? Recently it was found that COVID-19 was not the primary cause of the admission at 25% of hospital admissions. These patients were tested positively at intake and were counted as corona patients. Mr. Chairman. The PCR test described in the January 2020 protocol shall be based on a number of breeding cycles of 45, but shall not indicate the number of cycles for which the test should be read. That's what's relevant. You can see that you have not been able to detect an infectious virus since a number of 35 cycles. The RIVM first used 30 cycles as a starting point, but changed the rules during the game by increasing the number of cycles to 35. In addition, for 97% of the cases, almost no more infectious virus can be detected. But is the number of cycles of 35 used in practice? Looks like the U.S. Department is making it even furier. In a decision on a Wob request from the Ministry the following can be read. "The optimum number of breeding cycles is between 40 and 45 cycles for the vast number of tests. If no signal has been observed after this number of cycles of 40 to 45, the result shall be determined as negative." That way you get the number of positive results raised. It is also indicated in this letter that RIVM does not receive information about the Ct value. The Ct value indicates the number of cycles required before the first signal of the virus is detected by the PCR device. The Minister also appears to have turned horndol and indicates in the reply that he has no insight into the breeding cycles. It is high time for the test result to include and disclose the Ct value or at least indicate the cycle at which the test was read. Does the Minister agree with this statement? Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the number of infections, far-reaching measures have been taken. But it is precisely the way the number of infections is determined that is debatable. The tests are carried out by several laboratories. There is no SOP, a standard operating procedure, but all test results are thrown into one pile. For the sake of clarity, there are several test factors than just the number of cycles. You can also talk about primers and the number of genes you test for. And then there is at least one OMT member who has a financial interest in the number of PCR tests. Mr. Chairman. In the summer of 2020, when almost no one was in hospital with COVID-19, the determination of the reproductive number, the R-number, was changed to keep the arc tense. This number indicates the average number of people infected by one person. This was no longer determined by the number of hospitalisations, but by the number of infections. It was precisely during that period that the testing was on the rise. People without complaints were also subjected to a test, while the Ministry and the OMT knew that testing only makes sense in complaints. An OMT member wrote to the Ministry that asymptomatic doesn't exist. You're always gonna find something in your nose. If you combine this with increasing the breeding cycles of the PCR test and non-unique testing, there will be a hint of cheating. Meanwhile, the number of infections based on the number of positive tests has had a huge impact on society, and that is still the case. Older people in nursing homes lonely away, school classes were sent home and the catering and non-essential shops had to close down their nerding. We were locked up in our house at night and there was vaccination urge. It goes so far that citizens are even restricted in their fundamental rights. But was that always based on democratic legitimacy? An official wrote in an e-mail that the emergency regulations lack democratic legitimacy and are a shaky basis for fundamental rights restrictions, but we do not say that. In order to force behavioral changes, an official suggested that the sausage be held that there would be less freedom restrictions in the future. That is an extremely shocking unveiling. The Minister was aware of this. From the latter you can conclude that it seems that we are being messed up with false promises. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has always stated that the OMT is independent, but is it? RIVM, which is under the Ministry and presides over the OMT, has taken on board testing suggestions from the Ministry and has them included in the OMT opinions. OMT members concerned do not appear to have been consulted, but far-reaching measures have been implemented on the basis of these so-called independent OMT opinions. The cabinet played the murdered innocence by shielding that these measures had been taken on the basis of independent OMT advice, which was in fact an advice adopted and manipulated by the cabinet. In short, the cabinet created a so-called independent report that met its own political wishes and used that advice to convince unsuspecting citizens. How fake do you want it? This shady game is in line with Diederik Gommers, member of the OMT. He said, "The OMT, and those meetings, and that letter of advice, that's fine. But what I have difficulty with is that sometimes the outgoing cabinet does statements as being of the OMT, including in the news, as if we have said so. And you can't, and you can't correct that." Mr. Chairman. With the adoption of this bill, not only the VWS Minister will be in charge of the fight against an epidemic or a direct threat to it, but the chairman of the security region will be responsible for the fight against it. This latter position is currently held by the paternalist mayor Bruls, who, in his own words, is all too eager to raise citizens. He does not find the debate on the legal basis of the corona fines at all interesting. It's all about the goal: to prevent people from coming together in corona time. And that's what those fines helped do. That's how Bruls announced to the newspaper. During a technical coronabriefing in the Lower House, he indicated in respect of people who do not want to cooperate: "After daddy Bruls' soft arm comes daddy Bruls's hard arm. That's how life works." It's like Kim Jong-un, like we're here in North Korea. In short, after our own mischief, we are not going to reward the minister with even more powers and are we not going to surrender ourselves to types like Dad Bruls? Mr. Chairman. I can only conclude that it is one great game of shadows, that of lying and cheating. The opaque, wandering corona policy that we have been painfully confronted with over the past two years feeds the distrust and restraint of the granting of far-reaching powers. Once you lose your powers, you don't just get back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u4	On a point made by Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst. I remember that a few weeks ago she addressed a colleague in this Chamber who called her Mrs Van de Klashorst instead of Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst. That's fine; that's a kind of courtesy she can ask of anyone and that's been restored. But this colleague did not call her "Mama Klashorst" or "Woman Klashorst" or otherwise. So I don't think it's appropriate to say about people who aren't here and who can't defend themselves, like "Daddy Bruls." I don't think that's right for this room. I would have liked to have said that, because I think she should apply the courtesy she asks for herself to others too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. And I'd like to join you, Mrs Faber. It is not customary for us to qualify and insult people who are not here in this way. You'll have the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u6	I have to say, I think it's really funny... or actually, it's not funny at all. I find it special that Mr. Janssen comes to the microphone for this. Mayor Bruls called himself "Daddy Bruls." I'm not making that up. I'm not making it up to call a mayor "daddy." I had one father and a father-in-law, and that wasn't Bruls. So I'm just saying it was Bruls himself. It's a quote, isn't it? It's a quote from the mayor himself, who called himself "Daddy Bruls." How crazy do we want it here? Yeah, I'm not making it up! I didn't come up with such a crazy idea. No way. I'd like to make that right. I didn't make it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u7	No. Anyway, we're not discussing this. It is my opinion that this was an insult, and there is no appeal to the Court against that judgment. Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u8	I certainly agreed with my predecessor. I have another question. You're talking about the number of deaths. You'll find this low. I think this is pretty high. Where is the border for you? How many deaths should there be, so you say: only then will it be covered by the A status? I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u9	Of course, every death is too much. I agree with Mr Karakus. That's where we'll find each other. But you have to show the case in proportion. That is why I mentioned the percentages of other A-infectious diseases, such as Ebola. In addition, you have a mortality rate of 50%. In the plague, that's 100%. But this is very low. I also said that the mortality of COVID-19 is very low at the moment. The infection is very high. If you're gonna put a notification on that, they're gonna go crazy with the G.D.D. I can tell you that already. So you have to ask yourself if you'd like to. There are undoubtedly other diseases that may have a mortality rate of 1% or something like that, and we do not make it into an A infection disease. What I wanted to say is that the problem was also caused, among other things, by the lack of capacity in hospitals. This is simply due to the dismantling policy of the Rutte Cabinets of recent years. That's what's bothering us. If we had just had that in order, we would have had much less problems. Then those hospitals could have just done their job. But now half the people who work there were overwhelmed...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Faber, this answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u11	For me, the answer is not yet clear. On the second point, the concern, I think we agree. But the question was: where is the border before you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u12	Mrs Faber, I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u13	Yeah, I'm just thinking. So you have to start thinking in percentages. I think the border lies there where it is a real threat to the entire population. I am talking about the whole population and not just certain categories, of course. We have seen in recent times that most of the victims have fallen among the 70-plussers. For example, we saw some excess mortality in the Netherlands in 2020. But how do you get statisticalally on excess mortality? Over-mortality also has to do with the under-mortality in the years before. That's what we've seen in the Netherlands. That's what we've seen in Germany. In Germany there has been a period with more excess mortality, so they later had more under-mortality. What I'm actually trying to say is that you have to see it in perspective. You can't say, if we're at 10% or 20%, then sister or something. But if we do that with every disease that has a mortality of 0.9%, then we can completely surrender to the Minister. In case of infection A, you can park all the privileges there. Then there's just no keeping it. Of course, you have to keep the cottage by the shed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u14	Mr. Karakus, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u15	I note that I am not getting an answer to the question. But I also note that the limit for Mrs Faber is not enough at the moment, but it cannot itself indicate the limit of what should be sufficient to fall under A status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u16	Mr President, I have... Mr President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u17	You will have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u18	Excuse me. Excuse me. Mr Karakus did receive an answer, but I think he did not like the answer. I'd like to come back to the insult of Mayor Bruls. There's Minister Bruls himself...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u19	No, we're not discussing that anymore. You'll have to do it with my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u20	I don't have a question. I have an observation. In the previous debate, I noticed that Mr Van Hattem was fighting against deceptions. What struck me is that you made a comparison with North Korea, which I do not think is appropriate. If two countries agree on one point and you are going to make that comparison broad, that is a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u21	I notice that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u22	Now you've lost it again. You must put the foot well on top of the pedal and keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u23	Is it still working? I notice that it is always about mortality. I would like to hear from the PVV how she looks at long covid. Surely you cannot deny that there are now just more and more facts that show that it is not just a flu and that there are a lot of people disabled for a very long time? Isn't that an aspect you should take with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u24	I understand the consideration, but there are also other infectious diseases that also cause such a disease as lung covid. That's what happens with other flu viruses. That's not just covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u25	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u26	The cabinet needs to put the care capacity in order as soon as possible, only specifically testing for an infectious coronavirus, make arrangements so that there is unambiguous testing and only testing in case there are complaints. Then in relation to COVID-19: one: national direction by the Minister of VWS is no longer necessary; then two: measures aimed at persons are no longer necessary to protect public health; and three: there is no longer any obligation to notify the GGD. These three conditions, which I have just mentioned, are related to an infectious disease A and will no longer apply to COVID-19. Once all this has been done, this bill can go into the trash and the A-status of COVID-19 is superfluous. I therefore ask the Minister to withdraw this bill. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Just for the Acts. I think by asymptomically speaking, you mean asymptomatic, before the minister doesn't know what you're talking about. That makes the answer so difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you very much for the correction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u29	I now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u30	Mr. Chairman. At least there are two doctors in the room today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u31	There's even three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u32	Even three? Oh, yes, Mr Van der Voort, of course. I forgot. Three! What more do we want? Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Public Health Act related to the coronavirus, more specifically the question of whether COOVID-19 should continue to be part of the A group. On 28 January 2020, COVID-19 was designated per ministerial arrangement as belonging to the A Group. This decision shall be followed by a legislative proposal within eight weeks. It was not until 6 July 2021 that this bill was passed in the House of Representatives. More than two years later, we are discussing this choice for the A-status now in the Upper House. Why did this take so long, our question is to the Minister. The music is delivered today by the VVD group, I understand. The diseases in Group A are subject to reporting. In Group A there are quite deadly diseases such as smallpox, polio and viral haemorrhagic fever. In addition to very nasty, these are quite rare diseases. It is precisely this combination of lethal and rare that makes the measures that can be taken if a disease belongs to such an A group logical, namely: forced admission, forced isolation, forced investigation and forced quarantine. But all this is no longer compatible with the COOVID-19 situation at the moment. In March 2020, we were able to understand these measures, but not since the successful massive vaccination campaigns and since the omikron variant. In addition, RIVM has been wrong in an extremely serious way with its forecasts and impact assessment since mid-December 2021. It seems therefore almost as if one still wants to place covid in the most serious infectious diseases in connection with one's own truth, which is thus very wrong. There are no data at all that can support RIVM projections and models. The omikron variant turns out in practice to be a more than excellent booster of cellular and humorous immunity, for example, I am assured by several physicians who have considerably more knowledge of this than I do; most probably even better than the booster shot. In short, in the current situation there is no longer any medical reason to maintain the highest level of compulsory disease, thereby giving the government a power that is completely disproportionate. Should the situation continue to deteriorate, let us hope, with a new variant or something like that, then the Minister can always put this new variant on the A list under ministerial regulation, and then submit a legislative proposal in good time. But as far as our group is concerned, we should not do this, and we would like to propose that this bill be repealed, as well as the emergency law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that Mr Otten said just now, when a few of those diseases mentioned them: they are deadly, rare and it is about identifying symptoms. That's actually what the Wpg's old Wpg, I'm just saying for a moment was actually dealing with. A doctor sees that someone has a serious disease, which can then be placed in quarantine or in isolation, or even forced into isolation. Well, that's common, but not much. What we are dealing with with covid is, of course, a completely different situation. I wrote about this once, and then I said: it's actually about pseudo-insulation and pseudoquarantine. What we're dealing with is that it's about people who aren't showing those symptoms yet, but who may be contagious. If you look at the measures that were then adopted under the emergency law, the government also assumed that we should intervene, that we should prevent people from... I mean, if you were just living somewhere in the house with someone who had it, then you weren't allowed out at the time, because you could infect others. This is a system that absolutely does not fit in with the current Public Health Act. Why do I say that? Because in my opinion today we're actually going to adopt a law that's going to change something in the old Public Health Act, to add something. It is now referred to as an A disease in Article 1. But the point is that the powers laid down in that old law are not really relevant to that disease. Because it must be considered unthinkable that if you talk about thousands of infections a day, you would be forced to apply isolation in hospitals. And when you talk about the infections and the requirements arising from the old Wpg: for example, article 22, "The doctor who suspects or finds an infectious disease belonging to group A in a person he investigates, immediately informs the municipal health service." If we look at the government, and if we look at the symptoms, then colds, nose colds, runny noses, coughs, that doctor should actually tell the GG and GD immediately. This is very imaginable in the case of those other diseases, which Mr Otten mentioned, but is that imaginable and practicable when it comes to corona? I think a doctor will say, "Not until he's tested and the PCR test shows he's got it." But then I say, if the PCR test shows it, it's already known to the GG&GD. That's just an example. What's the point of adopting this law right now? The law needs to be there; it's an A disease and not a flu. But does it have to be right now? This is not necessary for the application of the instruments contained in the temporary law covid measures. You can just use those instruments. We are creating a situation in which we are going to impose a reporting obligation on doctors which is not actually feasible at all. In this situation there could also be forced isolation and forced quarantine powers that we know we will never do at all, because we have the temporary law, in which quarantine and isolation are already at home; we are not going to do so in hospitals. My point is that I wonder whether it is really sensible, necessary and proportionate to amend Article 1 at the moment. Why don't we just wait until the fundamental amendment of the Public Health Act is discussed? In the intermediate phase there will be a temporary arrangement, in which you can refer to it as an A disease, as is happening now. Soon, when we finalize the Public Health Act, it's in place. It could therefore be that the reporting of covid is regulated differently from, for example, the very serious diseases referred to by Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u35	I'm trying to follow Mr. Nicolaï's analysis. On a number of things that are in there, I can indeed follow him, for example the question of whether you should arrange it around covid in this way. Fortunately, I also hear him say that it has an A status according to the current law I understood. Then whether we have to do it now or not, we are on the road for two years. I have a very specific question. Just by letting it become an A disease, you have the possibility of quarantine measures. In B- and C-diseases it is not present; it is specific to A-diseases. The corona virus can still mutate. Somewhere in the world, another dangerous variant can develop. You will need quarantine measures, perhaps not specifically in the Netherlands, but for example to prevent the virus from coming this way via travellers. Quarantine measures are a component that makes it an A disease. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u36	Those quarantine measures are already in place, while we have not yet amended Article 1 of the law. Those quarantine measures are simply in the temporary law and have been applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u37	No, corona was adopted by ministerial regulation in February 2020, an A disease. But that ministerial arrangement must be confirmed in both chambers. It took us two years. That's why it's here now. But the A status in the Wpg is already there. That has simply been established on the basis of a ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u38	I think we'll talk past each other. I mean to say: in the Temporary Law measures covid-19 are quarantined and all these other things already as powers. They are already being used and also assume that it is an A-disease. We can continue to do so, as long as that temporary law is still in force. My proposal would also be that the provision on A disease as we are now putting it into law should not enter into force until the temporary law expires. What's the advantage of that? If you don't do it now, you'll actually get a residual system that fits the temporary measures covid. There are all obligations and powers in this area. The old Wpg powers don't give you shit, if I may put it that way. You're not gonna lock up those thousands of people who are gonna have covid or maybe a dangerous variant in hospitals. You shouldn't think that at this point you're going to report everyone with a runny nose to the GGD. No, you have the tests to apply the temporary measures, and that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u39	Mrs. De Bruijn, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u40	I do not follow the analysis, because in fact Mr Nicolaï assumes that something will change when we adopt this law, and so confirm what the cabinet has long established in ministerial arrangements. I do not share that view. In my view, Article 1 of the Temporary Law provides for measures covid-19 based on the ministerial regulation which includes covid as type A disease in the Wpg. I don't think this law changes anything about the situation we're dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u41	If that were the case, there's no reason to adopt a law in the first place. A law that has no consequences and doesn't change anything, we certainly shouldn't adopt. My point remains: let us be careful to activate the entire tools and powers of the old Public Health Act already, creating reporting obligations with a great deal of red tape for all doctors who are not really needed. In addition, we already have a working system based on the Temporary Law. My proposal to the Minister would be next. What would be against saying: okay, we've now established that here, but we're going to postpone the operation until the time when the system that we specifically created on that covid, that Temporary Law, will expire? I'd like to hear his reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office. We will continue this debate later this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-5.u43	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:00.
