ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	Welcome to the Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Ollongren. The applicant for this debate, Jasper van Dijk, is sick. So he's absent. Mr Hammelburg of the D66 Group has already joined me. He's gonna speak first. I call Mr Hammelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Van Dijk, whom I wish him well. The debate gives us the opportunity to welcome this Minister of Defence here, so welcome to the Minister of Defence and ask a number of questions about a discussion that took place last year during the previous cabinet period. Let me repeat once more clearly that what happened to LIMC really does not deserve a beauty prize and that should not happen again in the future. We need to look very closely at the legal grounds for information-driven action. I have a few questions for the Minister. The letter of 26 November 2021 clearly states that we are going to look at practice in other European countries. My question to the Minister is: can she confirm that this is being taken up again now? A policy vision on information-driven action has been announced. My question to the Minister is: is it taken into account that the legal grounds really need to be secured? How are we going to deal with the world changing and everything going digital? Are we getting a very clear view of this? That's what's missing now. If we want to guarantee the security of our troops, we must ensure that the legal grounds are secured so that we can join the modern world. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you to Mr Hammelburg. I call Mr Boswijk. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. I hear all the sounds right away. I wanted to try, but it didn't work. I mean, of course, that he speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'm just getting ripped out of my own party. Mr. Chairman. First of all, a welcome to the Minister. I am glad that we can have this debate. Over the last few days, I've read the book Shadow War Uruzgan. It gives a rather sobering picture of the difference between the debates that have taken place here in the Chamber and the reality, in this case in Uruzgan. That's what we saw at LIMC. Things went wrong. I don't speak it right, and I'm glad there's an independent investigation coming up right now. At the same time, however, there was a tendency, last April, but also in the last committee debate, which said, among other things, that our armed forces were being deployed against our own citizens. That is, of course, not true, because our armed forces are being used to protect our citizens. The reality is that the world is changing. That's what we're seeing in Ukraine now. Cyber's just a part of the military tools, and it has to stay that way. It is a grey area and we need to look at the frameworks within which we can act. That's why I have a few questions for the Minister. Earlier in the budget process, we have asked for virtual training space for information-driven action, so that our armed forces can practice in this area. I was wondering if I could get an update. I often hear, for example, in a recent conversation with the Air Mobile Brigade in Assen, that more and more soldiers are dropping out because they are just practicing and can never be deployed in operational areas. This threat also exists with cyber specialists, because the business community is very keen on these talents that we need in the armed forces. We're afraid that, pending the investigation, these people might not be able to be used for what they're trained for and what we need them for, and that they're running away. I'm asking the Minister how she looks at this. Finally. We focus very much on the negative of the LIMC. That is why the question to the Minister is whether there are any positive messages to report and lessons that we can draw from the LIMC. Could we perhaps make predictions on the basis of the information that has been collected, which we could have benefited greatly from? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Boswijk. He spoke on behalf of the CDA Group. I was told that I had to make at least one blooper today and I succeeded. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	First of all, thank you for the letter we received yesterday from the cabinet. The cabinet itself has already concluded that, if the Chamber asks for an independent inquiry, the Chamber does not ask for an internal investigation. The request for that motion did not contain a word of Spanish at the time. We have submitted them as a VVD. So it is a good thing that this motion is now being carried out with the letter. But then let's get back to the underlying matter. Something the military has always done, when it's deployed far away, is to explore: what's the situation like? For that, you need information-driven action. Only the digital domain has been added; that is what the LIMC issue was about. The cabinet will look: how did they actually practice in the digital domain? It is about collecting and gathering information from social media: what is a particular issue here and what, for example, is our military presence in this country? Those are all very useful things. Then we'll see how they do it in other countries. I think that's a good exercise. Only the question to the Minister is: what glasses are we going to look at the other countries? I think it is important to keep the glasses of military reality in mind. If we send soldiers on mission, we do so because it is potentially dangerous there. This also means that they must be able to collect all the information they need, for the safety, effectiveness and impact of our military. I therefore hope to hear from the Minister today that she is going to make these glasses on the comparison with other countries, so that the security and strength of our military personnel remain at the forefront, including in the application of digital information gathering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you to Mr Van Wijngaarden. I'll suspend until 11:00, and then the Minister can answer. Or does she want to go straight on? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	I can go right through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then the Minister can go right through. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I looked at you in the eye for a moment, but I get to start right away, I understand. I would also like to wish Mr Van Dijk of the SP from this place. It is indeed the first time that I have been in the Chamber as Minister of Defence. That's a milestone for me. It is the third Minister of Defence when it comes to the LIMC; I think the spokesmen know that very well. I think it would be a good idea to highlight here in my first performance that this is a subject for which my predecessor, Mrs Bijleveld, has apologized to the Chamber. That's what happened next. The most important thing, namely the legal basis for the LIMC and how it was used at the time, appeared to be missing. So that's the starting point. Then your Chamber adopted a number of motions, including the motion by Mrs Belhaj of D66 and a number of co-signators: Mr Stoffer, Mr Boswijk, Mr Kuzu, and Mr Van Wijngaarden, indeed, as he himself said. I think that the literal implementation of that motion, which I have now chosen, is important in the letter to which Mr Van Wijngaarden has just referred. I think it's important to learn from things that haven't gone well. So that's what I'm trying to do. Information, and therefore information-driven operation, is crucial for the armed forces. That's just the way it is. Of course, information has always played a major role in military action, but because of the digital domain that has been added, that has become even more important. Think of all kinds of hybrid forms of conflict that happen in the world. As a result, it is important to be able to acquire, process, disseminate and deploy information in military action. In fact, it is exactly as Mr Van Wijngaarden said. This is important for the work of our military forces and for their security, for our security, for national security and for cooperation with allies. That is why we are trying to define and develop a vision of this information-driven action. This has already been used by the previous cabinet, and we will make use of a number of studies already under way. They were largely the result of the debate here in the Chamber on the LIMC. I think it's more than that. I would just like to comment on the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u11	I see an interruption by Mr Hammelburg. I'd like to allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u12	Before the Minister moves on to answering the questions, I have one more question about this piece. We know that there is some sort of breeding when it comes to collecting data and exchanging that data between different parts of the armed forces. That exchange can sometimes be essential, especially in the field and in the operations. You also need legal bases and legal grounds. Is the new policy framework taking into account how this can be improved for the future in the operation? Now it's just bad on parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u13	The answer to that is yes. Maybe it's okay if I just answer the other questions. I think I can reassure Mr Hammelburg on that point. This consists of different routes. Mr Hammelburg asked for other countries. A request for information has indeed been made to the main European partner countries to see how they have completed this relationship. This is about the relationship between the functioning of the armed forces and the legal basis we have, namely the GDPR, to put it in jargon. The results will be for our input. So we learn from others. The policy vision that is under development, and which I hope we will be able to achieve before the summer, must make it clear what exactly is the legal basis for that operation. So I come up with a bit of what Mr Van Wijngaarden said. Eventually, we have to look at this from a military pair of glasses. It is about the functioning of the armed forces and how they operate, how their own security works, how they can operate as effectively as possible, but also how they ensure that the legal basis is right. That is an important foundation and a basic condition. After all, you don't want to find out later that it isn't. You must have organized that well in front. Because indeed, the world is changing. That's very fast. That is why this must be done as a matter of priority, in the interests of the security and functioning of our armed forces. Then I come to Mr Boswijk's questions and comments. A letter was sent to the Chamber about the update of the virtual rehearsal room. It's from the second half of last year. I believe Henk Kamp sent that letter. There's a lot of stuff in there about that virtual exercise space, and there's a lot of possibilities with that. At the same time, we realize that virtual practice in a counterfeit digital environment is never quite the same as actually doing these kinds of exercises in the real digital world. There too a sleeve can be adjusted. That's what the letter says. That is what we must continue to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u14	There is an interruption by Mr Van Wijngaarden. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u15	Of course, Mr. Chairman. So this is looked at by lawyers. We also know: ten lawyers, eleven opinions. I'm a lawyer myself. So the question is: how tight are you in the leather? It's supposed to be good, but it shouldn't be more roomy than the Pope. Does the Minister agree with me in that it would unnecessarily delay our military in relation to other countries or any opponents?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u16	I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not a Catholic either. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on the point made by Mr Van Wijngaarden. I understand very well. That's right, that's the way it is. I do think you should ultimately rely on the best possible information, including legal information. In the end, you have to choose a direction politically-administratively and agree on it. If we agree here on the legal basis for the operation of the armed forces, that is what it is. On that basis, our armed forces can act. The aim is not to reach consensus among lawyers. The aim is to achieve consensus in a political-administrative reality, with a legal basis, on which the armed forces can function. It is actually a legal and ethical framework. The projects that are under way and which are partly about that legal framework, the comparison with other countries, the policy framework in the process, the external research that we are doing to ensure compliance with the GDPR, which I had not mentioned yet, are all input for this, together with the external research on LIMC that the Chamber has asked for. In the end, this should fall into a policy framework on information-driven action. And that, in my view, is ultimately the legal framework, I shall say, which we all agree on and which the armed forces should be able to deal with. Mr. Chairman. A few more things; after all, it is only a two-minute debate, although you would almost forget that. I fully agree with what Mr Boswijk said about the commitment. At the same time, it is very difficult to say that we are now going to deploy our forces. That depends on what's happening in the world. Now there's more than enough happening right now, I'd almost say. Fortunately, our soldiers are also being deployed at the moment, for example in Lithuania, at enhanced Forward Presence. I think the analysis that this is about specialized people, in a labour market where there is a lot of demand for that kind of specialisation, for example for technically skilled people, is spot-on. That's just a fact. The work at the Department of Defense is versatile and incredibly interesting. People think it's a nice employer. But, yes, there are other options for people. I have indeed noticed in my first few weeks that an important motive for people to work in the armed forces is that they can also be deployed on mission and actually go to work there. What is equally important is that there is really good practice. We must ensure that these two aspects are in order. I would like to conclude with a final comment, in connection with Mr Van Wijngaarden's contribution to the digital domain. That's extra, but it's become incredibly important. We all know it: even in our daily lives, you can no longer live without that digital domain. It's just become an extra dimension in life. This means, for the intervention of the armed forces, that this dimension must always be involved. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is very important to learn lessons from the past. That is why I said: we are going to do the external investigation exactly as the Chamber asked for it. I'm gonna get that going as soon as I can. I hope that this will be completed before the summer, so that these recommendations can also be taken into account in the policy vision that I have promised the Chamber. Then, as soon as possible, we can give the military the right basis to do what is needed in that digital world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thanks to the Minister. I see that Mr Boswijk still has an interruption. Also for you: short, because we are already over our time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u18	First of all, I was referring to the fact that there will be an external investigation, but in the meantime there will still be activity for those cyber specialists in particular to keep them enthusiastic with the armed forces. That was mostly my point. My second question, which had not yet been answered, was the following. We now focus very much on the negative aspects at LIMC. I understand that, but at the same time I am very curious whether there are any positive things to report, which we can perhaps say: boy, that is just how important it is for the armed forces to do that for us. I can imagine that the Minister may not be able to say that right now, but I would like that to be taken into account more explicitly in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thanks for the clarification. That's a good point. I think it's fair. If you ask for an investigation, you don't rule out the fact that there are positive effects. I would like independent research to look at lessons across the board, positive and negative, as long as they are mainly lessons. And that other point is correct. People have the possibility in the virtual environment, but in part also in the real world, as far as we are sure that that is GDPR proof and in accordance with the legal standards we have set. But once, we have to keep the work interesting. It is incredibly important that we also keep these specialists in the Defence Organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-4.u21	We are going to change the guard, because we are going to the two-minute debate Informal JHA Council. We'll get back to that in a minute.
