ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a legislative act 35737, the proposal for a law of Members Paternotte, Kuik, Ellemeet and Van Wijngaarden amending the law on the termination of pregnancy in connection with the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of reflection for the termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about an important bill today. I would like to thank the initiators for the careful way in which they have shaped their proposal and for their explanations in the debate in the House of Representatives and in the written round of questions in this Chamber. It is an honour for me not only to speak on behalf of GroenLinks today, but also to do so on behalf of the Animal Party. Yes, the cooperation is going well!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u4	It's gonna work!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u6	It is good to clearly define what we are talking about at the start of this debate. The Law on Abruption of Pregnancy currently states that, if a woman wishes to terminate her pregnancy, a minimum period of five days must be observed for that purpose after she has expressed that wish. The purpose of the present initiative proposal is to remove that minimum period of reflection, i.e. not the period of reflection itself, but the minimum period of reflection. It will be clear that this is not technically a complicated legislative proposal. The importance of the debate is therefore not in the legal technique. Nor is this proposal a revolutionary change in the legal regime on abortion. But that does not alter the fact that, in the eyes of our political groups, an important step is being taken, a step which gives greater weight to the autonomy and self-determination of women in the complex weighting of values and interests surrounding the breakdown of pregnancy. In the eyes of the groups of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, that is a good development. I would like to go into this in more detail and ask a single question, to be precise, two questions. But here's what I'm gonna do. Debates relating to the border situations in life around birth and death should be conducted with the greatest possible care. Fortunately, this is customary in the tradition of this Chamber, as well as that of the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, that will also be the case today. It will not surprise anyone that our groups are looking at the legislative proposal with a positive look, but that does not mean that we too have an eye for dilemmas. Each request for termination of pregnancy has an individual moment of choice for the woman in question, in which dilemmas and serious considerations often play a role and values play a role. This is exactly the same for the debate at political level. If we look at today's debate, we will take a step further in the legislative history of abortion. This legislative history is now more than 100 years old and has been given a new dimension since the 1960s. From that moment on, the criminalisation of abortion has come under severe pressure. It was fought from the social movement and the women's movement and also by many doctors. There has been a call for a regime in which women's right to self-determination is central. This struggle has always had the support of our political predecessors. At the beginning of the 1980s, this eventually led to the legislation we now know. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my first question. I'll zoom in on that. In the legislation we now know, abortion is still punishable. It's a criminal offense, unless. But it's in the Code of Criminal Law. Our question to the initiators is whether they have not considered taking a step forward here too. It is quite possible to make a proposal to remove abortion from the Code of Criminal Law. Then it's no longer a criminal offence, unless, but then it's allowed, unless. We would also like to have this more fundamental debate with each other today in all nuances. I would like to hear the ideas of the initiators that they do not want to amend the law on this point. Legislation is always a compromise. The aim of this compromise in this law is to strike a balance between self-determination of women and the protection of unborn life, as the initiators themselves state in their reply to the opinion of the Council of State. We are also looking for this balance, but we do not believe that the current legislation does not sufficiently reflect women's right to self-determination in a number of crucial areas. An important point in this is the so-called period of reflection, the point we are discussing today. The five-day period of reflection has been controversial from the outset. That period came into force in the early 1980s. At that time, it was a step backwards from the social practice that has grown. So this period of reflection has also been experienced by women as a step backwards. In our view, the evaluations of the legislation have also shown that it is not sufficiently effective. I am sure we will be able to talk about this later. In our view, therefore, the evaluation does not show that this period of reflection leads to significantly different decisions. In addition to the fact that you can find something about it in society, and that is what we think, the effectiveness of the legislation is very controversial. As I have said, this does not alter the fact that the decision to terminate pregnancy is a major choice for the woman in question and that it is a good thing that the process surrounding it has been carefully designed. The legislation provides for a careful process. It is a question of women's self-determination. It's all about talking to a doctor. In technical terms, this is about "informed consent." You need to know what you're consenting to and the professional should be able to take his responsibility as well. In that conversation, the professional, the healthcare professional, can form an opinion on the degree of voluntaryity and stability of the desire. Is it really the wife's wish? That whole is carefully designed. In the eyes of the groups of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, it is unnecessarily patronizing to say: if you have had that conversation, then you have to wait another five days, and then see if you still feel that way. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my second question to the initiators, because their proposal also retains that period of reflection. Only the legal standard of this will be abolished. If we read it correctly, then there will be a period of reflection; it will no longer be stated how long that period of reflection should at least last. Our question is whether it has not been considered to delete the period of reflection from the legislation at all and to say: there must be a wish of the woman, a conversation with a caregiver, informed consent, and then that it is and can be acted upon. I would like to look at the considerations on this issue. Of course, it may also be that we do not fully understand the proposal. Two final remarks. Our groups consider it important that where there is a need, women can seek support in either making a choice for some women, it is not complicated, for others it is very complicated, or dealing with the consequences of their choice. That support must be there, and fortunately it is also well arranged in the Netherlands. I see Mr Van Dijk at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u7	But that's what I'm about. Mr Van Dijk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u8	That I see him, that's not your concern. But you're talking about whether or not he gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u9	I waited neatly for the chairman, anyway. I would like to take up Mr Van Gurp's comments on the period of reflection, even suggesting: why has it not been considered to delete them altogether? My question is: have you taken note of the findings of the second evaluation of the Arborus Act, i.e. the last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u10	Certainly I've taken note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u11	Is it not very striking that a high percentage of aid workers, abortion doctors and gynecologists are positive about this period of reflection, because it prevents impulsive decisions? And do we tell these professionals: it's all patronizing, it's all distrust of those women? Isn't that a little too easy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u12	No, it's not about whether it can't be very sensible to think about it. In fact, it's always very wise to think about it. It's about whether you should set a standard for that as a legislator. You assume the right of self-determination of the woman and of the professionalism of the aid worker, where you arrange for it, and you should arrange that there is a good conversation and where you are convinced that the choice is a conscious, well-considered and self-free choice. Then it is also in that conversation to determine with each other and there can be good reasons to say "well, sleep a few more nights or take some time".................................................................................................................................................. I wonder whether it is then necessary to say as a government: no, we do decide that at least there should be a period of time in between. Asking that question is answering it as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u13	Then it remains striking that those professionals on request say that this period of reflection is simply necessary and good when it comes to the impulsive decisions you mention at the end. One can think: I oversee everything, so on the spot an abortion. These people in practice do not overestimate that self-reliance, as we sometimes do in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u14	I just put that debate in the professional conversation between the woman who wishes and the caregiver she is engaging in and who she is talking to. In that conversation, the conclusion may be: this could be impulsive, take a moment. So it's part of the outcome of that conversation. But in that conversation, a different conclusion can also be drawn. So I'm not saying at all that it can never be wise to consider another period; I think it's the role of the government to shape that conversation properly. The government should not impose on it another obligation of a period of reflection of an x, y or z number of hours or days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, two final remarks. I said it might be necessary and good that a woman who needs it seeks support in making her choice or in dealing with the consequences of her choice. Fortunately, that is well arranged in the Netherlands. There are organisations that support it, and I think it is very good that there are. I would just like to point out that this is something other than the'support' that some very activist anti-abortion movements offer, to intimidate women, to change their choices. Aid and support must be directed towards the best possible expression of the woman's own free choice and not at the implicit or explicit forcing or forcing that woman to go one way or the other. Unfortunately, I am not saying it for nothing, of course, these practices are taking place throughout the world, in Europe and here and there in the Netherlands. I commend my colleague Margreet de Boer for the work she is doing in the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly to counter this type of practice. I'll come to a conclusion. It is, in a sense, a privilege that we can have this debate in the Dutch Parliament in this way. This also applies to the one or two debates on abortion that are still coming. I look forward to that, too. I look forward to that because it is right for this subject to be discussed in depth on these types of issues. It also does justice to this issue to seek a new balance over and over again, even though it is minor changes in the form of legislation, and to consider how we can do it as well as possible. At the same time, there are quite different debates in culturally related countries, both within Europe and across the Atlantic, in which choices for women are made impossible, debates leading to prejudice and intimidation, exclusion and punishment of women and carers who commit or cooperate in abortion. In our view, this is extremely regrettable and ten steps backwards. It is all the more important that we take one step forward in this Chamber today. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the contributions of other groups and, of course, to the answers of the initiators. I also look forward to the government's answers. I have not asked the government any questions, but no doubt others will ask the government questions. And I look forward to the in-depth conversation we'll have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u17	There is another interruption by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u18	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps partly because Mr Van Gurp also speaks on behalf of the Party for Animals. For both parties: you are very concerned about every plant, about animals. I'm thinking of protecting the chicken egg. Don't touch it, high fines on it! I'm totally serious. In that I praise you, it is good to take care of creation in this way. But I hear very little of those notions when it comes to protecting unborn life. Where does it say that? Would you mind saying something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u19	Either I have not been clear or Mr Van Dijk has not listened carefully, but let me assume that it is always up to the speaker. I hope I have made it clear that it is always a weighting of interests for our groups too. In this weighing of interests, which must be done carefully, you will find a compromise with each other at some point. That compromise is taking a small step today. That does not alter the fact that it is always a balance of interest, in which the protection dignity of unborn life plays a role. We found something in there with each other. How do we do that, when, to what age, to what limit and in what way, the informed consent. It's all over the law breaking down pregnancy. The careful process provisions, it's all in there. So it's a bit easy to say "you, Party for the Animals" too, you should say it for GroenLinks. "go for the kievitsei and not for human life." I wouldn't want to get into that kind of clichéd imagery of each other anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u20	Clichély is not my intention. I'm really trying to make it sound like a decent question. It was a sincere question. The kievitsei is extremely protected. You can't touch that, a big fine on it. If you see that besides the protection of unborn life and abortion and the great accessibility, isn't the balance a little lost? Shouldn't we be talking about this fundamentally for once? That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u21	Sure. I understand the question. I respect that it is not meant to be clichéd, although I thought our position was put in that corner a little bit. Anyway, we've had that now. My answer to your question is, of course, no. I have tried to indicate how we see the balance. In fact, with the initiators of the proposal, we believe that women's self-determination should be a little stronger without saying that other values would not be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you. You saw Mrs Prins on the programme, but she traded with Mrs Baay-Timmerman, who will speak on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill amending the Law on Abruption of Pregnancy aims at abolishing the mandatory minimum period of five days for termination of pregnancy. The current five-day reflection period is artificial. This applies to any pregnant woman, regardless of her situation, and may be perceived as too short for one woman and for the other as too long. In addition, the obligation of a five-day period of reflection can certainly lead to a reduction in treatment methods for the cases at the limit of options for discontinuation. Mr. Chairman. The balance between the freedom of choice of the woman in an emergency on the one hand and the protection of unborn life on the other is very difficult for almost everyone to determine. It is a balancing of values whose outcome can be different for everyone. Careful and informed decision-making to take irreversible steps requires careful procedures. The time-limit for reflection, which is still mandatory, so that, after the doctor's visit, the woman is still able to reconsider her previous decision, can contribute to this. The 50PLUS Group believes that the Ellemeet/Ploumen motion, which was adopted, abolishes the mandatory five-day period of reflection and is replaced by a flexible period of consultation between doctors and women, basically meets the requirement of careful decision-making and, in fact, offers more tailor-made care. After all, in each case, which is very specific to the individual case, the doctor and the woman can decide what the duration of the period should be. My group understood that it is also possible that the duration of that period may be zero, provided that a number of conditions are met as stated in the reply, so that in such a case the pregnancy is immediately terminated. The proposed flexibilisation of the period of reflection starts at the moment when pregnancy has been diagnosed, but that moment is never legally established, because this finding is determined by the woman, or only by a medical practitioner? I'd like an answer to that. Is it possible in this bill that a minor woman discovers that she is pregnant in the morning and on the same day after the doctor talks with the doctor, I ask the initiators. Is such an irreversible step still classified as careful and well-considered decision-making, partly in view of the minority of the person? I'd like a substantive response. The note following the report states that the first evaluation study of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act presented the question to women as to how they had experienced the mandatory minimum period of reflection. However, a second evaluation study did not repeat this question, so that no data are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u24	I have a question on the previous point. You asked the initiators and the minister to respond to, say, the impulsive decision of a young woman who just found out she's pregnant. My question to you is, through the chairman, how do you see the role of the doctor, the aid worker, in the confidential conversation with that young woman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you for this question. In particular, I am concerned to establish whether the health care provider, who I assume is generally entitled to trust in the Netherlands that he will be asking for it, is really considering, in this case, the minor whether there are any other options before going over to abort. But I do think it is important to know whether it is possible in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u26	In your answer, I would like to look at the extent to which you respect the professionalism of the abortion care workers. Or that you ignore that and focus entirely on, in this case, in your example, the underage woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u27	I certainly do not ignore the professionalism of healthcare professionals, especially in abortion clinics. That's not im Frage. However, I would like to ask the initiators very specifically how, in such a case, a period of reflection for the minor who has found that she is pregnant is being dealt with. That is a point I would like to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u28	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u29	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm moving on. So I was working on the second evaluation study, which did not ask the question again about the period of reflection. The initiators refer in response to recent investigations in the United States, where 26 States also have a mandatory period of reflection. As a result, for a majority of women such a period of reflection did not affect their decision to discontinue pregnancy. The choice has already been made before the woman visits an abortion clinic and only a small minority has become more doubt during the mandatory period of reflection. My group is struggling with the terms'majority' and'minority' in this matter. What is meant by a majority in this case? Is that 60%, 80% or more? Shouldn't this have been described as an enlarged majority? And how large is the small majority in percentages? Can the initiators clarify this, so that my group has a better understanding of the actual outcome of the effects of the period of reflection? Evaluations should be used to understand how adopted legislative proposals work out in practice, but the right research questions should be asked. It is incomprehensible to my group that the second evaluation study does not include the question of the influence of the period of reflection on the choice of women to terminate their pregnancy, so that it is not now clear what possible effects the abolition of the mandatory period will entail. Mr. Chairman. My group reads in the reply that the initiators are also in favour of a third evaluation. The amended Palland amendment provides for a periodic evaluation every seven years. In addition, the Minister already made a commitment to carry out an evaluation in 2027. My group asks both the initiators and the Minister whether they can now give an explicit undertaking that the next evaluation in 2027 will focus in particular on the abolition of the mandatory minimum five-day period of reflection, the flexibilisation of the period of reflection and its consequences. I would like to hear from my group whether they can make this unbiased commitment. For the text in the reply reads: "The evaluation provision concerns the entire Law on Abrupt Pregnancy, including the pending proposals to amend this Law," and "the other recommendations from the second evaluation is looked at." My group does not think that this is sufficiently clear. It is precisely in the second evaluation that there was no evidence of the proportion of women who felt that the period of reflection was useful or not useful in reaching an informed decision. Mr. Chairman. As Prime Minister, I now have to rely on the quoted results of investigations conducted in the United States and a question by the initiators at the French embassy about the time limits for their deliberations. According to them, the results are comparable to those of the Netherlands, but with an unsubstantiated assumption. However, only because of cultural differences could that be different. Mr. Chairman. My group is looking forward to answering the questions put. I would like to say in advance that I am not ruling out the possibility of my group voting on this bill, which affects moral and ethical values which can be weighed differently by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs Baay. The next speaker was Mr Dittrich, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a quote from a text by Annie M.G. Schmidt: "Over Time...................................................................................... two words you just realized the moment it hits you. In time....................................................................................... the fear and the defeat And he blames himself. In time....................................................................................... the loneliness, Abandonment. In time....................................................................................... What that means is a woman alone. That's what we have in common. (...) And that's where you're on your own. And there you are on the street, But the women around you, give you happy advice: behind the engine about bumpy boulders. Slide down the stairs all the time (...) About time, about time the fear and the panic. I wish there was a clinic. If only there was a clinic." Mr President, why do I start with this quote? The 1977 musical was a great success, but the song also produced a huge social discussion in 1977. For the first time, a large audience of men and women realized what it meant to a woman when she was unwantedly pregnant and there was no certified doctor to help her. Abortion was then tolerated and the near closure by Minister Van Agt of the abortion clinic Bloemenhove in 1976 put Annie M.G. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). This discussion led, among other things, in April 1981, to the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy. In April 1981 this Chamber approved that bill. So it is also nice to see how art can play a role in helping to initiate social change. But the song also makes it clear that the emergency situations for women in the years before the law were enormous. And what has changed so much? Anno 2022 has greatly improved the care for women. The caregivers in hospitals and abortion clinics are rightly praised and praised for their careful action. Annie M.G.'s song. Schmidt also clearly shows that it is the woman who physically suffers the consequences of an unwanted pregnancy. In the eyes of D66 it is the woman who decides on the termination of the unwanted pregnancy. Mr. Chairman. Under the current law, the legislator obliges a woman who wants to have an abortion to talk to a doctor, after which she has to consider for five days, while many women already know that they want to end their unwanted pregnancy before they have the conversation with the doctor. D66 therefore supports the view of the initiators that, although the period of reflection should not be removed, it should be flexible and should focus on the individual situation of women and set them in consultation with the doctor. Sometimes this can mean that this period is very short, perhaps even the same day that the consultation took place. Mrs Baay-Timmerman spoke about this. But it can also be longer than five days, as Mr Van Gurp said. As far as we are concerned, this is in line with the 2005 and 2020 evaluations. In many European countries too, we can see that there is either no or a flexible period of reflection. It has already been mentioned: in France, the seven-day period of reflection has been reduced to an individual deadline in 2015. On the basis of the two investigations, but also on the basis of other studies, the initiators have already mentioned in the documents that the minimum period of reflection introduced by the law for all women of five days does not contribute to the better protection of unborn life, while it does infringes the autonomy of the woman who is in an emergency situation as a result of an unwanted pregnancy. We must bear in mind that the consequences of unwanted pregnancies are great. This also applies to having unwanted children. Pregnant is hard. Some women are nauseous and tired of it, and then mandatory five days longer than you want to be pregnant walking around, is really an invasion of your body. The initiative proposal does not change the due diligence requirements laid down in Article 5 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. The woman must assess for herself whether there is an emergency. Only she can determine exactly what need means to her. Autonomously, it makes that assessment and not the legislator. But, of course, decision-making must be careful in the knowledge that it is about unborn life. Therefore, the abortion care provider looks at whether there are alternatives to abortion, or whether they have been considered, and goes through those alternatives with the woman. The aid worker also checks whether the woman's decision is really voluntary. In practice, this appears to be going well. The procedure must, of course, be medically sound. The conversation between the abortion aid provider and the woman takes place behind closed doors and is confidential. From interviews with women we know how careful and thorough this reflection is. The abortion aid workers in the Netherlands are highly regarded. As far as D66 is concerned, we, as legislators, must influence the relationship between the doctor and the woman as little as possible. Together, they can best judge what's right. As a co-legislator, we like to express our confidence in medical abortion workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr Dittrich praises abortion care and the conversation. I'll totally back him up on that. I think that is very good and that it has added value, but it is precisely then that a period of reflection, in order to be able to process it all, is more necessary than ever? That is a bit contrary to what I think you said earlier: the thinking process has already started and it has even been thought about. I do think such a conversation can make a difference. You'll get alternatives. Maybe you'll get an ultrasound. Then you should at least let's keep it limited, let's think about it for at least one day. Then it can't be the result that you can have an abortion on the spot, can it? Doesn't that contradict each other a little bit? I do believe that the conversation has added value. Is a minimum period of reflection not therefore very desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u33	I am pleased to hear that you, as the representative of the SGP, have confidence in the assistance and that you say that this conversation has added value. I'm going a step further in that. I trust the aid workers in the Netherlands and the women who come with their emergency services. There will be a result in that process. I will not go along with you so far as to say that you and I, here in The Hague, in the First Chamber, are going to impose on these women that they should at least consider, I hear you say, one day. No, that's up to the woman in consultation with the paramedic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u34	One final question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u35	Mr. Van Dijk, this is your seventh interruption. I'm gonna let it go, but I'm gonna go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr President, my final question on this point. Is it not true that we in this Chamber are very quickly overestimating the self-reliance of women, of citizens? We also exchanged that with Mr Van Gurp. Have we not seen, for example, in corona, in vaccination, in the donor law, that access to health information or what the woman already knows is often disappointing, and that it is therefore quite necessary to keep women for an impulsive decision? A lot of professionals say the same thing. Do we have enough eye for those cares of the professionals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u37	I understand your point. A report has also been published on self-reliance, on the extent to which people can indeed do what we as a government ask them to do. The title is "Measuring is more than knowing" or "Knowing is more than knowing." I don't remember exactly, but you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u38	The title is "Knowing is not doing yet."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u39	Well, it's beautiful. But that's exactly why we're having this conversation with the paramedics. They're professionals. They were trained on that. They sometimes have years of work experience. They see a lot of women in their office. So they can test: is this impulsive or has this been carefully considered, how do we deal with this? They can go through alternatives. These are all requirements set out in Article 5 of the law. We know that's going well. So again, I have faith in those aid workers and I don't see the problem that way. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the next point. At the same time, of course, it is important to know whether, if the legislative proposal takes effect and the period of reflection is determined individually, there will in practice be changes in care or aftercare, or perhaps it will be necessary. Can the initiators and the minister deal with this? How is the finger kept on the wrist, in anticipation of the evaluation which the Minister in the House of Representatives said was due in 2027? That's not for five years. So there may well be relevant developments to report. My question is therefore: how will Parliament be informed about these relevant developments? My final point, Mr President. It appears to be frequent that women have more than one abortion over time. It is therefore also important to reduce the number of repeated unwanted pregnancies and abortions. Can the Minister indicate what is being done specifically against this? I invite the Minister to take a broad look at the accessibility of contraception, information, education and also the intensification of post-care after the first abortion. In this context, I would like to ask whether specific attention will be paid to the father of the child or the partner of the woman, because the way in which the partner or agent is involved in the selection process depends, of course, on the wishes of the woman and the father herself. The decision remains a decision of the woman, by testing the doctor for voluntaryness and thoughtfulness. But in these repeated unwanted pregnancies, more specific attention should perhaps be paid to the man in the woman's life. I'd like to quote Nurse Janine, who works at an abortion clinic. He gave an interview in the Volkskrant of 7 September 2020. She believes that men are indispensable in the conversation about contraceptives, and I quote: "Prevention of unwanted pregnancy is a shared responsibility. A man must realize that any sex can cause a pregnancy." What's the Minister's position on that? Is the Minister prepared to sit down with professional groups to contact specifically on the issue of repeated unwanted pregnancies and the role of the man in them? Mr President, I will conclude. It will be no surprise: the D66 Group supports this initiative legislative proposal. Finally, I would like to congratulate the initiators for their hard work on this sensitive but very important subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Thanks to Mr Verkerk, Mrs Prins has the floor. Let me say this, because the order of the speakers is then simply followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a delicate and sensitive subject: aborting a pregnancy. It is a subject that evokes many often intense feelings. Understandable, because we are talking about the germ of a new life. Fortunately, in most cases the wife and her partner are intensely happy, moved and moved that this happiness is part of them. Unfortunately, however, it is also true that there are women who are often unintentionally pregnant and are certainly not happy, but with fear and trembling look to the future and perhaps even look into a black hole or, as the law calls it, are in an emergency situation and have no choice but to break off pregnancy. Mr. Chairman. Although the CDA Group considers it very important to prevent unwanted pregnancies as much as possible, it is positive that there is a possibility in the Netherlands to break down a pregnancy. In 1984 the law came into force, a law with in our view a careful balance between the autonomy of women and the life of an unborn child. Also a law that provided good medical and social psychological guidance, good distribution of abortion clinics and financial accessibility. Since 1984, this law has been reviewed twice. Both evaluations show that, fortunately, the implementation of this law is largely satisfactory. The latest evaluation, done by ZonMw, dates back to 2020. In the light of this evaluation, the various initiators of D66, PvdA, GroenLinks and VVD have submitted an initiative legislative proposal to relax the mandatory five-day reflection period, considering that this part of the process should actually offer autonomy to women. After all, as the initiators point out, the mandatory period of reflection has become part of the law for "paternalistic reasons." Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my appreciation and congratulations for the efforts of the various initiators to see whether the implementation of this law can be even better, as well as for the energy and many work that such initiatives entail. Where the execution can be better we have to pick it up. But for us as a group of the CDA there is also the crux, namely: does the implementation of this bill with only flexibility of the period of reflection really lead to better implementation? More importantly, are the women who make this difficult decision on whether or not to abort pregnancy really helped with more autonomy in determining the period of reflection? If the careful balance between the autonomy of women and the life of the unborn child remains, we wonder. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group therefore has several questions before reaching a final position on the matter. The extensive research by ZonMw finally gives eleven recommendations to optimize the aforementioned law. Some are clearly focused on the profession and concern better communication, so that women know better that they can report to an abortion clinic or hospital without a referral letter. Others, however, are an appeal to the legislator, i.e. to the Minister and Parliament. I would like to mention some that are mentioned in the research without any disclaimer. The legislator should specify the term "pregnancy" in such a way that the law on termination of pregnancy and Article 2.9.6 of the Code of Criminal Law apply similar definitions. The legislator should still clarify the legal position of the over-time treatment. The linking of the viability limit in abortion to the medical-technical developments that see the survival of extremely early-born children should be abandoned, for example by including in this law that at 24 weeks the limit is for the termination of pregnancy. Another recommendation. VWS should make an amendment so that other BIG-registered professionals, in particular obstetricians, can be formally referred to clinic or hospital. The relationship between this law and general quality legislation should be reviewed and, where possible, ensure that general quality legislation can apply as far as possible to abortion treatment. The content of the model forms should be reviewed and the reporting obligation changed to a frequency of once a year. All concrete recommendations to the legislator. And as a suggestion, the report indicates that the VWS Minister will consider whether the advantages and disadvantages of a fixed period of reflection outweigh the disadvantages and, if not, allow them to lapse. Our question to the initiators is therefore: what have been the considerations for only one opinion from this report? What considerations have played a role in ignoring the very clear and different recommendations? Do the initiators consider this less important? In this context, I also ask the Minister whether he can promise us whether these clear recommendations will now be taken up by him and, if so, in what time? With regard to the suggestion of making the fixed period of reflection flexible, the CDA Group also has a number of questions and considerations. The various evaluation studies show a very mixed picture. The various surveys show a nuanced picture. Two thirds of caregivers - abortion doctors, gynecologists and nurses - indicate that a period of reflection prevents an impulsive decision and that it gives women the opportunity to reflect on the advantages and disadvantages of abortion and alternatives. When it comes to the fixed term, opinions are equally divided. In addition, the professionals are, after all, negative about the fixed period of reflection when, unfortunately, it is necessary to break down desired pregnancies in connection with medical indications. In such cases, Article 16 of this law can also be invoked, in which, given the imminent danger to the life or health of women, a doctor does the intervention without complying with the fixed period of reflection? Or you could consider extending the law in that respect, as in some other countries in Europe. A more holistic concept of health is used: medical and social psychological well-being. Have the initiators considered this? And if not, why not? Another reason for the researchers to give only an opinion to the Minister to investigate the advantages and disadvantages of adopting a fixed period of reflection is the fact that the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From the first evaluation in early 2000 among women who have visited an abortion clinic, 43% were neutral, 20% positive and 37% found it annoying. Also at the time of the examination of this initiative proposal in the Lower House it became clear once again that the opinions of the directors of various abortion clinics are also divided. The clinics, for example those in Enschede, Almere, Zwolle, The Hague and Utrecht, publicly indicated that they were against this bill. Their consideration: there are many mature women who come into the clinic and think they know exactly what they want, who then regret that they acted too quickly. That's how I quote a ruling from a director of one of these clinics. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group recognizes this statement. As the WRR has pointed out in several studies, stressful situations have a strong impact on rational thinking and doing, regardless of one's intellectual ability. Our question is therefore whether the initiators recognize these observations: the nuanced image in professionals, in women as far as is known, at the abortion clinics and the signal from the WRR. What role have these observations played in drawing up this initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u42	A glowing speech from Mrs. Prince. I have a question. You cite the example of the drivers. Then it seems as if the period of reflection is being completely abolished. You have studied the matter well and you know that Article 5 of the law states that the aid worker must provide information, discuss alternatives with the client and that the aid worker must make a proper assessment of whether the client has thought properly about the situation. If not, the aid provider must propose a period of reflection. In fact, the period of reflection is not being abolished. It's just part of the good relief system. Do you not think that these guarantees in the law are sufficient to ensure that the aid worker can intervene in the impulsive situation that you have just outlined, where the aid worker says: this is not how it works; we are going to have this conversation first and then we are going to see if you have weighed this up properly? In fact, it simply states in the law that that consideration must be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u43	Of course, I've read that with you. I shall return to this in my next paragraph. So maybe I can say something about this first and we'll see if you still have this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u44	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u45	May I suggest so, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u46	I think that's very practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u47	With regard to practical feasibility, I would like to highlight another example. What if the woman is very clear about her decision to terminate her pregnancy on the same day, because that is possible with this initiative proposal, whereas the doctor certainly does not feel good about it? Now the doctor may fall back on the mandatory period of reflection. Not on this bill anymore. Have initiators considered what impact this has on the interview in the office? Is this initiative proposal helping the professional or is it more likely to be put on the spot? Finally, I would like to mention the concept of 'paternalism'. The initiators indicate that the fixed period of reflection arose thanks to the paternalism of the then government. There would be no regard for the autonomy of women, self-thinking about one's own body and the starting pregnancy. Thinking about this remark, I wondered how we should reconcile this statement on paternalism with the many fixed reflection periods in various other areas. Think of taking out a mortgage, insurance, or selling a house. Even for internet purchases there is room to cancel your purchase. Of course, I realize that aborting a pregnancy is a completely different order than taking out an insurance policy. In the reply, the initiators indicated that there was a different legal framework. Mr. Chairman. It's not just the legal framework that matters to me. I am also concerned about the feeling of the citizen. How do we explain that in spite of everyone's autonomy, the government does want to protect citizens from ill-thought-out purchases, but wants to make the period of reflection for the termination of pregnancy, an irreversible action, flexible? In such a flexible manner, it is clear from the reply that, immediately after a first interview with the abortion doctor, abortion can be carried out. What is the opinion of the initiators on this? I have one more paragraph. Shall I finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u48	I think that's a good idea, and then there's two interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u49	Because this is my final paragraph. The CDA Group is looking forward to the answers, and we would like to know to what extent this legislative amendment will ensure that there is a careful balance between the autonomy of women and unborn life.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u50	It is a matter of careful decision-making, and I fully agree with that. But decisions are often made in medical care in the office that are irreversible. If we look at the legal framework, is Mrs Prins aware of any other provision in the law on any other treatment in which someone has to undergo a mandatory period of reflection? I don't think so, because I don't know. Take, for example, plastic surgery. We can be completely renovated, there are no compulsory reflection periods. Someone can get sterilized. That is an irreversible treatment, but not a mandatory period of reflection. I assume you agree with me that this is really a matter of concern. The law also safeguards what the aid worker must do before the decision can be taken. In this particular case, why include a mandatory period of reflection? It is about the mandatory duration, not about the need for a period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u51	That is a very logical and fair question. However, the examples you mention only concern the person in question. So it's just about your own body. We are dealing here with finding a balance between the autonomy of women and a germ of new life. From that point of view, I think it is very sensible to at least check whether it is not wise to maintain that fixed period of reflection, all the more so because we keep finding that in situations where the pressure on someone is great, it is simply very difficult to make a clear and clear decision right away. Then give someone a chance to think about it and give it a chance to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u52	Do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u53	I think that giving that space to someone is in this proposal. Each time the example of the same day is quoted. No, if the process has not gone through carefully, you could possibly take longer. I think that granting that well-considered decision lies precisely in this proposal. That is precisely what it respects by saying: take as much time as you need. That could be longer, that could be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u54	The way I read it now, I see that I miss it. I find it special that in a lot of other laws we do have these fixed reflection periods and that in this case we do not have to give ourselves that space, especially in order to give my example, in response to your question, a little support at a time when a woman thinks differently than he or she, whoever is the professional, to look at this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u55	I would like to continue with Mr Dittrich, because we are back to the same point you interrupted. Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u56	I'd like to continue at the same point. I always get a little uncomfortable when consumer law is introduced into the abortion debate. I do not think the comparison is entirely appropriate. You are not doing that, though you are talking about the deadlines. My question is, in fact, the following. Surely there is a guarantee in the confidential conversation between the aid worker and the woman, namely to look at Article 5 of the law, so that no unthought-out, involuntary or hasty decisions are taken? That's right, isn't it, because that professional paramedic is watching with the woman what's the best solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u57	You put it that way, but of course we do not know that, because there are examples too, and I just mentioned them as saying that the doctor has a different feeling than the woman. Right now, the doctor has the room to say, and he even has to say, "Go and think about it." He'll take care, I suppose, of extra support. Then that decision will be finalized. You're leaving that out now. So you're taking a piece of certainty away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u58	But let's say the woman says she insists on having an abortion, but the health care provider has doubts about that. We can't force them to go with the woman. He should then say from his or her professionalism: we do not do that. There can be a referral or an additional call can be made. The example you are setting does not quite match the situation that might arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u59	Yeah, well, then we have a difference of opinion. I believe that such examples can be explicitly avoided and I also have examples from the past of how patients can put enormous pressure on doctors. So from that perspective, I think it's just a little support in the back of the professional where he or she needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u60	Then I note that we have a difference of opinion on the professionalism of the aid worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u61	No, I don't think we have a difference of opinion about the health care provider's professionalism. I think we have a difference of opinion about overpowering, the power that a patient can sometimes have in the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u62	I have a question about that. Is it the woman who decides or the doctor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u63	If I read the law correctly, it is a woman's decision, in which the doctor must state that he understands that the woman has thought carefully about it. I think that's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u64	A follow-up question from Mrs. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u65	In the example you mention, you assume that a doctor has doubts and that therefore the period of reflection should remain. But again, the next question. If a woman finally finds a well-considered woman, she herself decides that she doesn't want to, is it the woman who ultimately has the last or actually the first word or the doctor? This is a fundamental point in the role of the doctor in relation to the patient, according to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u66	I think we should also look at what is in the law in that regard. This law expressly states that the doctor must agree on his own professional responsibility. So here are two responsibilities next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u68	The PvdA and the CDA therefore differ in principle. We say that the woman decides despite any doubts of a doctor. Can you also mention other examples that you think should be decided by the doctor rather than the patient?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u69	I think that we should always assume that the ambition should be that the doctor should only do what he or she actually believes in, on the basis of his professional responsibility and in view of what he or she stands for. I just notice that sometimes there are patients trying to force something. That was my example. Fortunately, this doesn't always happen, but it can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u70	In conclusion, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u71	I'd like to finish up. In the example, you are implying that in that case the woman is actually unable to act, because apparently the doctor should have the last word on the period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u72	No, now you're jumping to conclusions. I did not say that very specifically. I just think it might be helpful to have a quiet conversation and thought about it first and to sleep on it for a few nights. That's what I said. I didn't say that a woman is incompetent with that. I wouldn't say that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u73	I hope so, but in the end you leave the benefit of the doubt with the doctor and not with the woman who knows for sure what she wants. That is a fundamental point that also affects this law. The woman decides and in this case this should also be her word. I see that the CDA chooses to give a doctor more space to give his or her own doubts priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mind if I break in here? Mrs Vos can also make this point in her own term, but make an attempt at answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u75	I would just like to point out that I am now being put in a certain angle, which was not my intention. I have also made that very clear. I can only see that there are all kinds of studies that prove that a woman sometimes at one time... That applies not only to women, but also to men, to every human being; let me extend it equally. Everyone who is in a stressful situation at some point sometimes makes a decision that he regrets very much afterwards, precisely because he was less clear at that point, was less sharp, because he was in the stress. That's just psychologically proven. I would like to pay attention to that, and a fixed period of reflection can help. So that goes for husband and wife.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u76	However, on this point, because this is a crucial point in the debate. Mrs. Prins gives a very good description of what that professional conversation looks like. But do I understand that she says that the woman can dominate the doctor in such a way that the legislator has to give the doctor safety by the minimum legal period so that the doctor can at least rely on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u77	I think that it can help a doctor at a certain time, in some cases, for that is not special at all for this case, because it applies to a lot of cases, to point out that the law establishes that there is a fixed period of reflection. Then the doctor can say: there is a fixed period of thought, so should we both think about it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u78	That seems to me to be underestimating the professional quality of the healthcare provider. This is not paternalism towards women, but towards the caregiver, as if he would not be able to say from his own responsibility that someone really has to take a few more days for it. We can do all that; we all agree that we can. But it is a strange idea that the legislator would be needed for the caregiver to take his responsibility in this respect? That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u79	I think it is not strange, because there are many more examples in which we find that in today's empowering society people are trying to overpower someone else at some point. Then this could help. I didn't say that professionalism... professionalism is of course always paramount. But then it might be helpful for him to say: we're both going to keep that fixed term for a while, driven from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u80	I'd like to conclude, Mr. Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u81	I note that we are making a different assessment of the professionalism of abortion care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u82	That is an observation, I think. Thank you, Mrs. Prince. You spoke on behalf of the CDA. I failed to report that at the beginning of your speech. I now give the floor to Mr Verkerk, who is speaking on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. This debate is on a sensitive subject. It's about women who are unwantedly pregnant, about women who get the message that their baby isn't doing well, and about the value of unborn human life. It's about choices that may be too big for humans. I shall begin with some fundamental considerations. Mr. Chairman. One of the most insane writings of Jewish culture is perhaps the book of Isaiah. As you can see, I use the word "crazy" in the sense of "great" and "unimaginable." It is a collection of prophetic texts from the period of about 750 to 500 years BC. All major themes from politics, theology and philosophy are discussed in this book. It's about war and peace, justice and injustice, love and violence, power and powerlessness. It is also about fundamental questions: who is God, and what is man? Isaiah draws God as creator and man as creation, a creature with its own sense and meaning. We see in that book that God uses a special expression the moment he addresses man. God says there, for example in Isaiah 44, that he formed man in the womb. And a few chapters later, in chapter 46, we read that the prophet says that God carried the people of Israel from the womb. It is prophetic, poetic language that indicates an intimate relationship between God and the born and unborn human life. In this context I must also think of the expression "man created in the image of God." This expression gets deep when we realize that in the surrounding peoples of Israel this expression was only used for the king. He was created in the image of God. In Jewish thinking, that's different. Every man, male and female, is created in the image of God. In fundamental debates, the Christian Union draws this kind of text. In her vision, born and unborn life has its own meaning and meaning. Some of you, I know, draw on the same tradition. Others draw on other valuable traditions, such as humanism. I refer, among other things, to the interview with Jan Paternotte in the Nederlands Dagblad last Saturday. Mr. Chairman. The initiators say that they do not want to interfere with the importance of protecting unborn life. They also emphasise a careful process of decision-making. My group supports these principles. It therefore allows for a substantive debate on this law, despite the fact that our party is critical of the whole of abortion legislation. The fact that, ultimately, women make the decision is a fact for our group in view of the existing legislation. Following on from my contribution, I will focus on the period of reflection in relation to the termination of a pregnancy where there is no medical indication. Mr. Chairman. In the legal history of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, the care of the decision-making process is central. It is about balancing interests: the interests of women, the interests of unborn human life and the interests of potential third parties, such as the partner or the father. The evaluation of this law shows that substantive questions are addressed in the discussion with the doctor. The most important questions are why a woman is considering abortion, the period of reflection, the voluntary nature of the decision and the vision of the immediate environment. I refer to the second evaluation, pages 80 and 89 to 91. Whoever opts for a careful process and who chooses a careful balance of interests can only opt for a mandatory minimum period of reflection. The reason is that essential questions are addressed in the doctor's conversation with the woman. Those essential questions are needed to weigh the different interests. It concerns the interests of unborn human life and those of potential third parties. In all such situations, it means that careful consideration calls for time. That's what you're gonna want to record. That was also the bet of the law breaking off pregnancy. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State advises the initiators to pay more attention to the importance of protecting unborn life. The second evaluation shows that this attention may be needed. It appears that alternatives to abortion are among the least discussed issues. Our group finds this incomprehensible. For example, the explanatory memorandum of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act states that appropriate assistance and information has been given to women on alternatives. The initiators stress that considering alternatives is one of the requirements of an autonomous decision. I also refer to other legislation. For example, the explanatory memorandum of the Law mandatory ggz confers on unborn human life the status of "another," another to which no damage may be caused. It is explicitly stated that no lower limit applies in weeks with respect to foetal development. On this point, pointing out alternatives, I would like to receive a response from the Minister. A careful consideration of interests takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u84	I'd like to interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u85	I have a question for Mr Verkerk about the period before the woman with the aid worker enters the meeting room, because that is actually part of the decision-making process as well as whether a woman thinks she is in an emergency and is unwittingly pregnant. I haven't heard you say that. Don't you think it's part of the period before that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u86	Thank you very much for this question by Mr Dittrich. Yes, I couldn't agree more. That period is also part of the process. That's part of the whole process. You hope, of course, that the whole process is careful, even for that conversation with the doctor. Given what the doctor is talking about, that's also kind of a milestone in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u87	But that leads to the next question. Then why do you consider this mandatory period of reflection imposed by the legislator on all women to be so important? Then why isn't it much better to individualize it as a result of that conversation between the woman and the aid worker?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you for this question, too. Why you shouldn't individualize that, I was just about to tell you. So if you agree, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. A careful consideration of interests takes time. The initiators state in the explanatory memorandum that no arguments are put forward in the scientific literature for a mandatory minimum period of reflection on abortion. That could be true. I don't know if they've been looking very hard for it either. But, as our group asks, why didn't the initiators look wider? Indeed, there are reasons to argue for a mandatory minimum period of reflection. The first reason has to do with the functioning of our brains. We all know the expression "I have to sleep on that one more night." Sleep research shows that this popular wisdom contains more than a core of truth. Sleep appears to have a positive effect on the functioning of our brains. It enhances the ability to handle problems creatively, promotes balanced decision-making and helps make choices in stressful situations. I'd like to refer you to the book Why we drag. In that respect, there is every reason to sleep on it after talking to the doctor. The second reason has to do with vulnerability. The WRR report "Knowing is not yet done" shows that there can be quite a difference between what is expected of citizens and what they can actually handle. The human ability to weigh information and make rational choices is limited. These abilities also appear to be under pressure, under pressure, through stress and mental stress. The last reason has to do with the role of legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr Van Gurp has a question for you, if we could interrupt you for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u92	As for the first reason, I'm a good sleeper. So I'm always up for that night. But does Mr Verkerk not agree with me that it can also be that you have had enough sleepless nights and that even more sleepless nights only lead to more stress? So that it depends on the situation whether that night's sleep does or doesn't do and that we shouldn't determine that as legislator, but that this should be determined in the care relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u93	Of course, this type of sleep study raises these general questions, because it is also about what happens in stressful situations. Then it turns out that even in stressful situations a night's sleep can help, because it does something to your brain. Of course I totally agree with you. We differ as humans, and these kinds of investigations are general statements about people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u94	I mean, a little more specific. I mean that there may be situations in which this helps, but that a woman who turns to an abortion worker and has had sleepless nights of it may not have helped at all with another night's sleep, because there is no sleep at all in the stress or whatever. So my plea is: let that take place between woman and aid worker and let us not want to prescribe general standards from this place, regardless of whether a night's sleep is wise or not. I think that is the essence of the difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u95	I have a third argument. What matters to me is that there are grounds for a minimum period of reflection. I will also be showing later in my speech that the justification of this draft law regarding the first and second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act is rather inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u96	I would like to give Mr Verkerk the opportunity to give that justification, after Mrs Vos has asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u97	I have already heard for the second time the report 'Knowing is not yet done'. I think that is a very useful and very useful report. Finally, there is a report that we use well in this Chamber. But the essence of that report is that the government, that we sometimes pour laws and rules on people into texts and words that people don't understand. If there's something that I think we've arranged well in the Abrupt Law pregnancy, it's that there's a conversation between the woman and the doctor and that the doctor has to make sure the patient or the woman knows what she's doing. That's not what the report "Knowing isn't doing yet" is about. I am therefore surprised that you are also quoting this report in order to strengthen your arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you for this question. That's just in the next paragraph. I'll read it to you first, and you can still respond. I'll go to my third argument first and then I'll get back to that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u99	Can it wait, Mr. Kox? Or do you want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u100	No, Mr. Chairman. I am happy to listen to that consideration, but I would like to come back to the image of'sleeping on it'. This suggests that a woman comes to an abortion clinic or to a doctor and says: I am pregnant, I do not want that; that must end. But in the period before that, a woman is always thinking "what is my problem?" I find it a bit belittle to women to say: sleep on it. Can Mr. Verkerk explain again that he doesn't mean to? Otherwise, I don't understand how he comes to the conclusion that "sleep on it" would be a good advice at the moment you say: I don't want to give birth to this child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u101	Words matter. I realize it's very difficult to express exactly what you mean. I'm talking about people in general here. I'm not talking about women. I'm not saying women aren't capable of making decisions. I would like to put forward a number of arguments as to why it might be good to have a period of reflection. That has to do with the fact that a conversation like this is an emotional conversation for a number of women. For some it may not be, but for many women it is, I suppose, because it is about very important questions. And then sleep study shows that it's good to sleep on it for at least one night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u103	But that wasn't my question. My question was whether Mr Verkerk agrees with me that those nights to think about it must have preceded it, because it is not a sudden moment, such as 'hey, I am pregnant; put an end to it'. That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u104	No, it's not like that. We have agreed a very careful process with each other. In this careful process, we consider the consultation with the doctor to be a very important point. That important conversation raises very difficult, difficult, emotional questions. And then sleep research in general says: it can be good to let it rest for at least one night. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u105	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u106	I'll follow up, Mr. Chairman. The last reason has to do with the role of the legislator. It has also been mentioned by Mrs. Prince. The comparison was made with the reflection period when buying a house. The initiators believe that this comparison does not work because the legal frameworks are different. That's right; those legal frameworks are just different. You can't compare it. But the pointe is somewhere else. In important decisions, such as buying a house, the government opts for a mandatory period of reflection to protect the citizen. That's the pointe. You can find this in the response dated. October 19, 1995. The government has opted for a period of reflection as a sign of good care. And now I come to a summary, and I would also like to address Mrs Vos' question. The above arguments point out that the mandatory minimum period of reflection makes sense. The biggest mistake of modern times is that we think that people are autonomous and rational beings in all circumstances. Our group, with a variation on the subtitle of the said WRR report, calls for a realistic perspective of autonomy. I therefore repeat my question: why did not the initiators look more broadly? I'd also like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Several political groups, including those of the CDA and mine, have raised critical questions about the basis of the draft law. The initiators parate these questions in two ways. First, they argue that they are not researchers and therefore cannot answer certain critical questions. This modest attitude is a credit to the proposers, I must say honestly. Secondly, the initiators point to the second evaluation, in which we read on pages 105 and 155 that "there have again been no signs that a fixed period of reflection is needed as a guarantee of careful decision-making." If the initiators use the results of scientific research, they cannot avoid critical questions, especially if those results are at the heart of their argumentation. Scientists as well as those who read their articles or reports must also be aware of phenomena such as selective citation, selective interpretation and selective conclusion. The conclusion that there have again been no signs that a fixed period of reflection is needed is not substantiated in the evaluation. I'm gonna start the investigation with involved women. On the quantitative part, the researchers write: "In view of this low response and the method of selection, the results do not lend themselves to a representative picture of the experiences and views of women who have undergone abortion treatment." Not representative, then. In the qualitative part they write: "The aim was to interview 50 women (deepeningly) in addition to the questionnaire study. In total, only six women proved willing to cooperate in this process, making the results of this method unusable." That's a quote from page 25. My question is therefore: why do the initiators not pay attention to these methodological limitations of the second evaluation, precisely because this is also about women's experiences? And what signals does this evaluation give, according to the initiators? The conclusion that no signals have emerged that a fixed period of reflection is needed cannot be substantiated by research among aid workers. The survey shows that 77% of the aid workers indicate that the minimum period of reflection prevents a rushed decision. It also appears that 51% of the aid workers disagree with the statement that the mandatory minimum period of reflection is unnecessary. So my group's question is: why are the initiators not doing justice to this data? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states that the cabinet is endeavouring to reduce the number of repeat abortions. My group's question to the Minister is how the proposal before us relates to this agreement. Mr. Chairman. My original text said that the great absentee is the man in this debate, but Mr Dittrich has already mentioned this. So I'll say "almost big absentee." His responsibility for pregnancy and its possible undesirableness is not mentioned. For a balanced assessment of this bill, he must not remain invisible. The slogan "the personal is politics" also applies to men. As a husband and father, I have experienced how important it is to take responsibility for relationships, sexuality and pregnancy. I regret that the initiators did not address this question. Can the Minister undertake to pay explicit attention to the responsibility of men in the cabinet's policy to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a closure. Our group notes that this initiative law recognises the importance of protecting unborn human life and the importance of a careful process. The key question is therefore whether the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of reflection contributes to the protection of unborn life and to a careful balance of interests. The answer from my group is to this day, because we are waiting for the debate, denying it. The first reason is that careful consideration of interests takes time. In view of the issues raised in the discussion with the doctor, it is obvious that there is a mandatory minimum period of reflection. The second reason is that the basis of this law is weak. There is no realistic perspective on human autonomy. Finally, it appears that, as far as the justification is concerned, recourse to the second evaluation is unjustified. This evaluation does not provide an answer. Mr. Chairman. I started by saying that all major themes from politics, theology and philosophy are covered in the book of Isaiah. Also the theme of power and powerlessness. Isaiah also stands up in his lyrics for the powerless, for those whose voice is not heard. That is a vote that my group wants to strengthen in the debate. The Christian Union Group looks forward to the answers of the initiators and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr Verkerk spoke on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of completeness, I note before my speech that in daily life I am the director of the NPV, a patient association that deals, among other things, with palliative care, infertility and also has a branch of home help in charge, but is also involved in the field of medical ethics. I think it would be a good idea to report that in advance. My story is a 100% SGP story, as you will notice. Mr. Chairman. A debate on the period of reflection for abortion soon focuses on the autonomy of the individual woman or on the protection of the unborn girl or boy. That's what I'm going to talk about, but first the bigger picture. The level of a civilization, of a culture, can be measured, among other things, by the way it deals with people and with human life. Does the right of the strongest apply or do you as a society have heart and eye for the life that cannot save itself? Is there an eye, not least for butchered or vulnerable life, for life that itself has no voice or no voice? Think of unborn life, intellectually or physically limited, of those who suffer or demente psychologically. How do we deal with the speechless? Aren't they the canary in the coal mine? In my opinion, all the groups in this House are more or less in agreement that we should be compassionate with the other, care for those who do not have a helper and cannot save themselves. It is precisely the left-wing, progressive groups that are not tired of stressing this. These are good notions. Wouldn't it really be progressive to prevent and prevent abortion in as many ways as possible and to acknowledge that it is completely obsolete to see the aborting of a pregnancy, of a new life, as a solution in a civilized society? It is precisely in this context that I ask the authors how the motives behind their legislative proposal relate to this. The proposal aims to make abortion even more accessible, simpler and more accessible. Any obstacle to abortion, here in the form of a fixed period of reflection, seems to have to be removed. However, the women who are considering abortion are in an emergency situation they have experienced. They need help and not just freedom of choice. How do the proposers look at this theorem? In our country abortion is accessible and relatively easy to achieve. More than 31,000 abortions per year, possibly up to 24 weeks of pregnancy anywhere in the EU, there is so much space to cut through the future of a human life. We know that abortion is committed for almost every conceivable reason. Especially social reasons: because of finance, a complete family, because of housing, a broken relationship, because of study or also because of disability etc. The concept of "emergency situation" has been undermined. How does this fit into a culture in which one strives for help for anyone who not only saves it in life? Release everyone, but no one falls, so states a political party. Hasn't abortion become too standardized? I am sad to think of images of cheerful MPs at the time when laws are being adopted that make abortion simpler, with texts that you expect on birth cards. What kind of culture do we create if we do not take the view that abortion has become such a common option and that we are celebrating further extension of abortion legislation? How can we see a culture in which unborn life can count on so little protection? We're very busy living with very different people today. That is why we are making it a priority to combat discrimination, violence or racism. We do so on the basis of the intrinsic dignity that every human being possesses, given by God. But what do we teach each other and what do we give young people when we make it so easy to kill human life? The bill does not choose its starting point in the protection of life. Do the proposers recognise that increasing the freedom of choice here is at the expense of new life? I have to think of the next quote from the American pro-choice cultural critic Maggie Nelson. She did that in a recent Volkskrant article. She says, I quote her: "Feminists will never make bumper stickers with a text like 'it's both a choice and a child'. But, of course, that's what it comes down to, and we all know that." She concludes, "We're not crazy. We understand very well what is at stake. Sometimes we choose death." I would find it profitable if the debate were to take place at this level of principle. The downside of the acclaimed right to self-determination is the killing of another human life. For more than 30,000 children a year, life ends before it begins well. What does this do with respect for a human life that is so essential to society? How can we teach young people to treat others with respect when even the most vulnerable life can count on so little protection? I would like to hear a reflection from the proposers and the minister on this. It would be so much more beautiful if we all went for a culture of life where everyone could be there and welcome. Of course, such a culture also fully appeals to the responsibility of fathers and offers such a culture the very best and the most loving help to women in need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u109	I haven't heard from Mr Van Dijk yet, perhaps that's what's still going on about the conversation that the woman has with the aid worker and about the professionalism of the aid worker to help the woman in the balance she's finally making. Will you come back to that in your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u110	I'll get back to you. This was the bigger picture, so to speak. I've finished that. I'm going to zoom in on the different aspects. Of course, this will include the aid workers, the evaluation and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u111	One more question about that general picture and protecting life. I find this so difficult to reconcile with the SGP election programme, which advocates the death penalty, when I hear you say that life is so important. Can you explain how one relates to the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u112	I find that incredibly simple, to be honest. Maybe I can explain by turning it around. I am surprised that before D66 the life of even a mass murderer is sacred and untouchable, whether it be a Hitler or a Saddam Hussein, the death penalty can never be a legitimate punishment, but 30,000 innocent children, there must be room for that. Now let's go the other way. I will confine myself to the SGP sound. The death penalty is based on the very high value we attach to life. If someone interferes with life, it may in certain cases be legitimate for such a person to lose the right to live on. But then we're talking about a punishment for, for example, a mass murderer. I think it's really something else to apply to unborn life.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr Van Gurp, on this bill, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u114	Sure. I sat down again, but I can't help myself. Mr Van Dijk says that he would like to have the conversation with a great deal of respect. That's what I want. I think that all the speakers are trying to do that in their term. Can I ask him to speak in a little less stark tones about the proponents of this proposal and not to dismiss them as people who rejoice for death or let 30,000 children die? I find that difficult to reconcile with his plea for a respectful debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u115	That's what I always want to be approachable to. I'm glad you're doing this. I didn't make that up myself. I just noticed. That's why it stuck with me. It hurt me quite a bit when I saw that there was a cheer when this proposal was adopted in the House of Representatives and that photos were distributed on Twitter with texts that I had previously expected on birth cards. I'm not going to repeat them; I didn't choose them. I honestly don't understand. Even if you are in favour of abortion, it is something incredibly sad. How can you celebrate? I wanted to put that down, not on people; I love everyone in this room, but I have great difficulty with those actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u116	Let us then confine ourselves to the actions, and to the difference of understanding that we have about them, without putting each other in a camp where no one wants to belong, with images where no one feels at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u117	I'm listening very carefully to what you're saying. I think I've stayed within the limits of decency, but I'm always on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u118	I'd like to ask Mr. Van Dijk a question. You're talking about loving help to women in need. Then we're talking about women who are unwelcomely pregnant. At the same time, however, you are actually excluding the option of abortion, because in your view there is only one direction possible, namely to let the child be born. I'd still like to return to your call for loving care for the women. History has taught us that women who are unwantedly pregnant can be so in psychological distress that they are looking for another way. That's as old as history. This is one of the groups that you also think we should pay attention to. And that is the way we broke down in 1984 by saying that we are going to set up careful abortion aid so that women are given proper care, rather than the old practices, as we used to, where they were illegally seeking a way. That happened under often miserable circumstances. These practices have often led not only to the destruction of the life you prefer not to break down, but also to the destruction of women's lives, or to infertility or unhealthyness. Do you not think that these women, who really do not see any other way out of this than for them, do not allow the child to be born, are in any case entitled to good care and that this is in fact the basis of the abortion legislation that we adopted in 1984?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u119	It's good to have this conversation like this. I mean that sincerely. I can't tell you how pleased I am to have such a conversation. At the same time, it is often the most powerful not to start immediately with extreme exceptional situations. Most of the time, the questions we get are about rape. We agree on that, but it is a very limited number of cases. I didn't just mention it for nothing: most abortions are committed for social reasons such as money, housing, but also relationship. In other words: then there are also alternatives. What if we first go for that with each other and can offer the woman real freedom of choice, even to have the baby? Then we can look at the whole extreme situations. In fact, I do not want to run away from it. This is the way we look at the government: the government must, in our view, be fundamentally on the side of life and therefore should not allow, not legalize, that one man ends the human life of another. That is indeed a fundamental difference. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u120	Mrs. De Bruijn, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u121	But then back to my question. Don't you think these women are also entitled to good care? For you are now drawing the line again: one cannot restrict the other's life. But it is also about the aid workers, for example. They have also been given a basis in this law to provide careful care to women. If you remain in it in this way, you will in fact say: no, neither the doctor is allowed to perform the act nor the woman is allowed to ask that question. In fact, you are throwing us back on the medieval practices of... I am not going to take the ugly words in the mouth. Let us say: for me it is at least a starting point that we go for careful care and that you then have to make these kinds of choices at some point, and that we should therefore make abortion possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u122	I understand your point. As I said, we are trying to do something about this from the SGP at other times. We do not want to be the party that just says: against abortion and figure it out. You know that we are also always trying to make a lot of money available for childcare and housing for teenage mothers. It is therefore for us and for us: indeed against abortion and for the very best help for women. But when we talk about "the very best help," it is true that the end of the life of the child in question falls outside. We do not see that as help, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u123	Can I say that your question has helped clarify the various points of view and that Mr Van Dijk can continue his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u124	We will indeed continue to fundamentally disagree on what it means to a woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u125	Thank you for your question, anyway. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the various aspects of the bill, many of which have already been discussed in the House of Representatives. The proposers themselves know that their legislative proposal is not directly based on the evaluation of the abortion law. The researchers themselves also strongly indicate the limitations of their research, both methodologically and in terms of representativeness. The previous speaker, Mr Verkerk, explained this in a much better way than I can. How do the proposers view this limited scope? Few aid workers and women have been interviewed for the evaluation. The views of women themselves on the period of reflection have certainly not been fully investigated. Whether the benefits of the period of reflection outweigh the disadvantages has not been investigated either, whereas the researchers of the last evaluation called for precisely that. The researchers themselves say: "In view of the low response and the method of selection, the results do not lend themselves to a representative picture of the experiences and views of women who have undergone abortion treatment. The results should therefore be interpreted with great caution." Why do the proposers not take these warnings more seriously to the benefit of caution? On the basis of the evaluation, the applicants cannot rule out the possibility that a flexible period could lead to decisions being made more impulsive or that consideration of alternatives would be reduced, with lifelong consequences for the woman and the child concerned. The second evaluation of the abortion law shows by no means that the fixed period of reflection would be an unnecessary barrier. The recommendation in question is more indicative than based on appropriate research. What drives the proposers, if it is not the protection of unborn life, also not the clear desire of the professionals who are very diverse and also not the seriously investigated desire of unintentional pregnant women, to pass this bill? In addition, the fixed period of reflection is primarily aimed at women in a vulnerable position. In panic, they can opt for a very short period of reflection and come to a choice that later leads to regret. I am thinking of young girls, women who, due to circumstances, see abortion as the only way out, but also women who come to abortion because of pressure from the environment. It is then good to think quietly, after there has been a conversation with a professional, from whom you have had all the information. The proposers exult about the high quality of abortion care and conversation. That information must be able to be processed, mustn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u126	I hear Mr Van Dijk say: the women, the girls, even the girls, who would regret it. Do you have any specific figures on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u127	I don't have them standing by here in state or anything like that. There are a lot of experience stories to be found, including in girls' magazines. I don't know all those girls' magazines by heart either. Regret isn't a rare thing. So that happens in a lot of cases indeed, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u128	I think this is a bit vague. I interviewed three different groups of women: a teenage girl, a mother from over 40 with a full family and someone who was in a violent relationship. Of course, that is not a representative study, but there was absolutely no regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u129	I can't argue that there's always regret after abortion. However, we do know what stories are to be found, and really not only through Christian magazines, but also through secular girls' magazines and everything - that there can be tremendous wrestling after an abortion. And I myself, also because of my other position, know the necessary ladies with regret. They often don't go out too easily, although sometimes they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u130	Finally, Mrs Baaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u131	Finally, Mr President. I think that virtually no woman sees having an abortion as something she has forgotten the next day, next week or next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u132	No, we can believe that, indeed; of course. The latest evaluation of the abortion law shows that more than two thirds of aid workers in clinics and hospitals are mostly positive about the period of reflection. A majority indicates that these impulsive decisions can be avoided. Like the government, the initiators lead to overestimating the self-reliance of the average citizen. The bill is based on the autonomous self-serving woman who has all the information in her head, even before she goes to a doctor or clinic. The process of thinking about abortion would have started earlier, and therefore a fixed period of reflection would be unnecessary. For vulnerable women, this can be totally different. On the contrary, removing the fixed period of reflection does not give them the right to choose freely and independently. A majority of carers, according to the latest evaluation, do not agree with the statement that the period of reflection is superfluous because the thinking process has already begun. There is also no majority among carers who say that the current period of reflection is too rigid. So how can the proposers turn on these arguments so heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mr. Van Dijk makes it look like the entire period of consideration is being taken out of the law. No, I'd better put it this way: the whole process of reflection is taken out of the law. But it's not, of course. In fact, Article 5 still states that that process must be carried through very carefully. In fact, it is a task for both the organisation that carries out the abortion and the doctor. That even requires permits. There's an inspection that oversees that. Detailed reports must be provided by the controller on how that process of reflection has gone through. It just turns out it's still in the law. It is only about the number of days, which we say we no longer want to fix; we want to introduce flexibility in this. Is Mr Van Dijk aware that this process of reflection is still in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u134	Yes, but so far we have the assurance that every woman who reports to the clinic, regardless of her background and what she does or doesn't know, will receive an information pack............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ No matter how the conversation goes, it is a guarantee that that period of reflection will be respected, while of course you can't always rule out the possibility that such a discussion might be considered wrongly. The woman may at that time have a very certain story that she manages to bring very convincingly, but she still comes to a decision that she regrets later. I believe that we have very little regard for the professionals in this debate. It's not for nothing that so many professionals like that period of reflection, which assumes a certain time, so much. That's because this prevents impulsive decisions. Those aren't all people who just want to patronize or ride women in the wheels. They know how man is put together, and that is true for men and women, especially in stressful situations. Then you can rest for a moment, knowing that nothing happens in the next two days, are very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u135	I just want to pay attention to those professionals. It is precisely on those professionals that the heavy burden, including the legal pressure, lies to carefully go through this process of reflection. At the moment that professional doubts whether the woman has given it a proper thought, it is up to the professional... Ultimately, the decision lies with the woman, I say in the direction of Mrs Vos, but the professional does have his own standard and must continue to comply with the legal obligations to make a proper assessment of whether the woman has thought about it properly. If not, he will arrange a period of reflection with the woman. That's what he can say, so to speak, "sleep on it again," to use that metaphor. The professional must do the same on the basis of the obligations laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u136	Your question is whether Mr Van Dijk is aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u137	I sincerely hope it will always be this way. That too has changed. Again, I do not wish to doubt the concern and the conversations that are being made. I don't have enough eyes on that. We can conclude from the evaluation that the alternatives are very often not discussed. So to pretend that these conversations are always so complete and flawless is certainly not the issue. Again, the present period of reflection gives determination to the woman and also to the doctor. If we go against the will of many professionals, we cannot rule out the possibility that abortion decisions are more impulsive. It remains striking, of course, that the second evaluation of the abortion law does not state "screw it," but that it says "the benefits of the period of reflection outweigh the disadvantages." Maybe we should have started there and then we should have taken a good look at how women actually feel about it. It's crazy that we don't have that sharp black-and-white here. We have one non-representative investigation conducted by the FIOM. From an unsuspecting angle in that respect. Studies among women with an abortion experience show that 71% were happy with the reflection period. Again, that has not been scientifically investigated, but it is an indication. I'm dying to see what would come out of it if we did some real research. I think that might lead to a very surprising outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u138	Mr Van Dijk is now very much in favour of the fixed period of reflection. At the time, the SGP Group voted against the bill. Then where is the change in your thinking? At the time, you voted against the law, including the period of reflection, and now you are making such an ardent plea for the fixed period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u139	We reject the total of that law. That's what we're doing to this day. We think it's a bad law, because we think that it doesn't protect unborn life enough. Unfortunately, we now have a very liberal law with a period of reflection, which offers a lot of opportunities for abortion. I believe that this period of reflection can be defended, also in view of the best care for women, and that it underlines that what is going to happen now is not just something; you are considering taking another's life and we want five days' reflection. So with that reflection period, you underline the importance of unborn life. It is indeed very next, next, next best, but that is why we stand for that period of reflection. Mr. Chairman. The practice of informing about covid vaccination, but also about the donor law, has shown that not all Dutch people have access to health information. How are the proposers aware of this? The reality is that women often do not receive the information they are entitled to under the law. See the evaluations. Let us first ensure that all women receive good and fair information about abortion and the alternatives. That makes more sense than starting with the abolition of the fixed period of reflection. Abortion is irreversible. We know from research that many women may have doubts about abortion, but do not always show that to the doctor. A fixed period of reflection provides clarity for the woman and for the doctor. Isn't that also legally important? How can testing and maintaining an indefinite standard be effective? I would like to add a further question which I did not include in my speech: how does it go if the doctor and the woman agree on a period of reflection, let us say four days, and let the woman have an abortion after one day? So what's the situation? Then what are the consequences? Then what's the doctor's position? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister how this bill relates to government policy in order to achieve fewer abortions. Are the various own-initiative laws still not off-balance sheet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u140	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. We now proceed with Mr. Kox of the SP. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing Arda Gerkens, who had to stay home because of covid. With the Minister, I realize that covid is still not a problem. Arda follows the rules neatly, so can't come and sends me into the field; it's no different. Mr. Chairman. It's nice to have this debate. I would like to express my thanks to the initiators and their successors we have here, because this proposal aims to improve the rules governing the termination of pregnancy. In a number of other countries, the debate is different. There are proposals on the table which usually involve a deterioration of the regulatory environment. I and my group are very concerned about this. It is often men who feel that they are entitled to restrict the rights of women to self-determination, for whatever reason. My group is very much in favour of expressing its full support for all the women and all the men in those countries who say that the right to self-determination for a woman is a fundamental right, which must not be restricted for all kinds of reasons which are not clear. Mr. Chairman. Aborting pregnancy, aborting a child, in any case, is not a minor procedure. It is a difficult decision which involves a great deal of emotion, even though it was only a text of Arda................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But also as a wife's partner, you have some knowledge of that. It's good that aborting a pregnancy is surrounded by rules. The initiators don't change that either. Remarkable is that starting a pregnancy is not surrounded by rules. You can do whatever you like there. I would be so curious if people who are so keen on the question of what to do when aborting a pregnancy would also feel something for a mandatory period of reflection for starting a pregnancy. I haven't heard anyone about that, but perhaps it's worth saying something about it in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The theme evokes many emotions, witnessing the many demonstrations, letters and e-mails we have received. Some of them have a very special content and give us the impression that we would not be sufficiently informed, or would like to be informed, of all the consequences of the proposed legislation. However, these reactions criticize the possibility of aborting pregnancy rather than this legislative proposal as such. In that sense, I do not think that is such a pure way of reasoning in our direction. Let me make it clear once again: this proposal is not about the possibilities of aborting pregnancy, the reasons for aborting pregnancy, the question of who else has control over it alongside the woman and the question of when it can be broken down. We have all already arranged this, and these initiators do not want to question it. This law deals only with one thing: the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of five days for termination of pregnancy. Instead, such a reflection period is needed in order to arrive at an informed and careful decision. That's the bill, no more and no less. Aborting a pregnancy is a choice that no woman makes lightly. It is precisely because the choice is so important that it is generally well thought out. Of course, it can happen that the decision is wrong. That is why it is wise to discuss and consult with someone who knows it. The only question is whether the obligation of a five-day reflection period is the most sensible one. Does that time-limit actually prevent the making of wrong decisions? We do not believe that research has so far shown that this compulsory five-day consultation really contributes to a better decision. That's why this bill is on the table. So: yes, consider, but no, no mandatory five-day period. In the view of our group, the mandatory five-day reflection period is rather strange. Aborting pregnancy should be done in close consultation with the doctor. If the doctor has doubts as to whether the woman makes the right decision, a reflection period is necessary. The doctor should check whether the woman has considered all the options, whether she sees the consequences of her choice and whether she makes that choice voluntarily. That period may then be one day, or two days, or ten days. However, if a yes has come after a long or short period of time, this period may not be extended by another five days. This is important for all parties involved. Because that thought-out period can put the pregnancy at a stage where abortion can no longer be done with medication. That is more profound for the woman and the fruit she bears. After all, the woman walks longer with a fruit in her belly while she knows she has to say goodbye to it. Meanwhile, the fruit continues to grow and it can be argued that it increases life in the unborn, making abortion more radical. From that point of view, our group believes that it would be better to break up sooner than later. Mr. Chairman. A mandatory five-day period of reflection should also be replaced in order not to give women the feeling that, after a careful decision, they should consult themselves for another five days. If there is one cause of mental problems after termination of pregnancy, then it is the polite feeling of shame. That's what we should be arming ourselves against. We should not give any arguments for leaving that shame up to a point. Mr. Chairman. In the opinion of the SP Group, the only thing that matters is that the woman makes the right choice and is helped by professionals. My group therefore asks the proposers how they can ensure that the purpose of the doctor is and remains the well-being of women. At the moment, the abortion care of the Netherlands is fortunately one of the best in the world. I don't hear anyone jubilant about that, but we should be happy about that. There are many countries where abortion care is much worse and where the misery for women and men is much greater. So the question is: is this also a theme in the planned evaluation? How can we ensure that abortion care remains among the best in the world? Mr. Chairman. Informed consent is now the doctor's starting point for termination of pregnancy. In my group's view, this should remain a priority. But when everything is adjusted and weighed, there's only one person who cuts the knot when it seems best to her. That's the woman. My group has every confidence in the women in this country and is therefore in favour of this proposal. Nevertheless, we are, of course, looking forward to the reaction of the proposers, as well as that of the minister where they are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kox of the SP. I now give the floor to Mrs Fox of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Mr President. In the ideal world there are only desirable pregnancies. This is particularly true in the ideal world of colleagues from the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA. That's also true in my ideal world. I think it's so in everyone's ideal world. In such an ideal world, every child comes into a warm and loving nest. Unfortunately, we do not yet live in an ideal world. In the Netherlands, one in five women has been unintentionally pregnant. One in five women has been unintentionally pregnant. And at 68% of those pregnancies, it's also undesirable. You also have unintended pregnancies that are desired, but 68% of those unintentional pregnancies are unwanted. On a global scale, that number is much and much higher. There's almost half the pregnancies unintentionally. Half of all pregnancies! 60% of them are broken down. And 45% of those pregnancies are broken down unsafely. Mr. Chairman. Those are huge numbers. So these are also huge numbers of men and women, especially women. They are not happy with the missed period of menstruation or with the overtime Mr Dittrich wore the poem by Mrs Schmidt, Annie M.G. Schmidt so beautiful for....and getting two stripes on the test. Large numbers of women and men are stressed and desperate. That's hard to imagine if you want to get pregnant with all your might or if every pregnancy and every child is a party. But unfortunately there are so many unwanted and unintended pregnancies. That is why caring for women, from contraception to safe abortion, is so important to prevent all this suffering, including the children who come into the world knowing that they are not wanted. With her initiative SheDecides, Lilianne Ploumen has meant a great deal to women who want to prevent pregnancy. The PvdA group is therefore very proud of what it has achieved, but there is still so much to do to prevent all these unintended and unwanted pregnancies. This happens with good contraception for everyone: men and women. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group does not think lightly about abortion at all. It's a major event for very women. It's really far-reaching, literally. We in the Netherlands have good care for the women who have to choose to have abortion. But the law that allows legal and therefore safe abortions is in need of revision, because we have changed in thinking about self-determination of women, at least the majority in the Netherlands. We are dealing with that law today and in a while the second law will follow, which will make abortion treatment even safer and further improve. Mr. Chairman. Through you, I would also like to thank the initiators of this bill. The proposal has a very long history. The seeds for abolishing the mandatory period of reflection were actually already laid down when this law came into being. Even then there was an objection to the mandatory five-day period of reflection, but it was ultimately a compromise to convince a majority in parliament that there were sufficient safeguards to protect unborn life. The five-day period of reflection was a threshold that forced women to think carefully about their choice. The authors of this law call that paternalistic. And it is. Those five days of mandatory reflection are not necessary to maintain the essence of careful consideration, namely that conversation between the doctor and the woman to make the consideration of whether or not to have an abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u144	Mrs. Prince has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u145	I have a question. You say that the law is in need of revision, but that is not evident from the investigations. There's a question for me. Is that your view of social development or is that because it is so necessary from the point of view of the implementation of the law? Because the majority of professionals indicate that it is right to do this. With the women, we have no knowledge of it. I'm looking for the motive and the motive for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u146	I think it has often been exchanged in this debate: the period of reflection itself is not being abolished. As I have just said, the talk with the doctor is the essence of protecting unborn life and the possibility for a woman to make a consideration and to make a decision with informed consent. The study that you yourself have just cited recommends that the mandatory five-day period of reflection should be reconsidered and replaced by a flexible period of reflection. So the authors of this law have done exactly what the recommendation was from the investigation you cited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u147	That's special to me. Well, at least I'll read it differently. First of all, I am not talking about abortion or abortion, as I have clearly stated. I'm trying to figure out why you'd want this, because there's no reason for it. I don't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u148	There is a reason for this. It's really hard to come up with a big N. In my opinion, all the discussions we have had here on the studies show that it is very difficult to find enough women and men who want to participate in an investigation. We have to do it with quality research. As far as qualitative research is concerned, there are sufficient examples in which the mandatory five-day period of reflection was really too long for the women concerned. They needed a flexible period of time. Some women need more and others need less. That makes this proposal possible. That is essential for the PvdA Group when we talk about the other cores of this law, and at all the core of the, fortunately progressive, legislation in this country, namely that women decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u149	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u150	One final question about this. The signals from professionals and women do not appear in this study. In doing so, a number of administrators of abortion clinics in the House of Representatives have also indicated that they are expressly opposed to this bill. How am I supposed to read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u151	That they are opposed to this bill and a majority in this Chamber, also because it does not abolish the period of reflection itself. It could be longer, it could be shorter. It is precisely this conversation with the doctor and all the information surrounding it that remains. This is also very important for our group, because it is a far-reaching decision. I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u153	That was also stated in my text: one woman needs more time after talking to the doctor, because she has started to doubt, because she gets more information, the other woman needs less time or knew, for all kinds of reasons, that are really up to the woman again, that actually wants to have the treatment the same day of the conversation. This law gives women the right to take as much time as they need. I think this is an achievement in the twenty-first century. Actually, it could have been done before. In the House of Representatives and in this Chamber, the written procedure gave a detailed account of the consequences and desirability of abolishing the mandatory five-day period. The essence of the answer is and remains that it concerns the consideration that women make. It's her body. The role of the doctor is to establish that the woman really has come to that choice and is well-considered. As with other medical treatments, it is important that the patient has made an informed choice. In good Dutch it is now called informed consent. Once again, the PvdA Group thanks the authors for the well-thought-out legislative proposal, which gives women more control over an extremely complicated decision. A law that gives women more rights to decide about her body and her future. It's about her life, too. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister, in particular, about information, about the state of play of the policy for preventing unwanted pregnancies. I think we're very much in agreement with all of them. The RIVM released the Monitor unintended (teen) pregnancy again in March. Based on 25 in-depth interviews, the researchers conclude that many people do not know the way to the choice-help offered by different organisations. Doctors say they should be able to have more conversations with the woman if the woman is in doubt. I therefore consider the considerations of my colleague from the CDA to be very sensible. A woman can doubt, and a doctor must also have time to have more conversations. And there's more need for aftercare. What will the Minister do with the conclusions of this monitor? Or is that still included in the plan for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy? That would be 1 May, I also read in the treatment by the House of Representatives, but I have not yet been able to find it. Mr President, something quite different, as colleagues have pointed out. Mr. Kox already asked about it. In the context of preventing unwanted pregnancies, I must say that there is still too little attention to the role of the man. I've had five brothers, and I've talked a lot about this, about preventing unwanted pregnancy and the stress my brothers always had. They always complained that there was so little for men. Suppose the law at the time, in 1984, had forced men to take five minutes to reflect before they make love to a woman. Five minutes to ask if the woman has contraception and whether he should wear a condom. Five minutes. It was just chuckled when Mr Kox said that, but it's not a weird bill at all by now. In my view, a law has been consulted which provides for clear consent to sexual contact. That is a law of Minister Grapperhaus, of the previous cabinet. We are very curious when this bill will be dealt with, because I have not read anything about it either. That's a question for the Minister. We're going back to the law, the man. So many decades after the invention of the pill and with so many opportunities for women to prevent pregnancy, and implicitly also the responsibility placed on women to prevent pregnancy, there are actually only two things available to men: a condom and sterilization. Something that is very clumsy and does not resolve itself with five minutes of reflection, I think is the experience of most people here, and a very definitive prevention of pregnancy: sterilization. While 80% of women and 50% of young men want more contraception for men to become available. Does the government intend to invest more in research into contraception for men, so that contraception becomes as easy for them as for women? Mr President, one final comment. What is happening in the United States is not our forehead. That's a good thing. A large majority of the Dutch population from left to right believe that safe abortion care is necessary. We know that abolishing the law on abortion, which some in this Chamber want, would not lead to fewer abortions, but to more unsafe abortions. Until there is perfect contraception for both men and women, and women are never raped again, it's just reality that there are women who want to abort their pregnancy. Unfortunately, the ideal world is not there, and that is why we will need this law to do women justice. I will therefore give my group a positive opinion on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr De Vries of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Chairman. First of all, our group would like to thank the initiators for submitting this bill. This is not the first legislative initiative in the area of abortion. An initiative law of VVD and PvdA from 1976 was adopted by the Lower House, but died at the time in this Upper Chamber. In 1980 the current law aborting pregnancy was adopted with the smallest possible majority in both the Second and the First Chambers. At that time, the mandatory five-day period of reflection was also one of the main points of discussion 40 years ago. In the meantime, this law has been in force since 1984. Persistent, paternalistic forces have been able to restrict women's autonomy and self-determination for decades. Now we in the First Chamber can finally close this period of conservative patronization and finally say goodbye to the patronizing attitude towards women. As our group stated publicly before this debate, we will vote in favour of this initiative law, so that the initiative law will also obtain a majority in the First Chamber. The current mandatory five-day reflection period assumes that a woman should first be sent home after an extensive conversation between her and the doctor, in order to reflect on her intention to have an abortion for another five days. Apparently, the idea behind the 1980 law is that the woman before, but also after the conversation with the doctor, has still not thought properly. We call that rigid, patronizing and incriminating. Research shows that a significant proportion of women come to the conclusion that they want an abortion even more firmly during the mandatory period of reflection. Many women also find the mandatory period of thought psychologically incriminating. Mr. Chairman. There are also practical medical objections to this mandatory period of reflection. The medical termination of pregnancy is carried out up to the so-called nine-week limit. Such treatment is preferable according to medical practitioners. Such treatment is now only possible for women who have notified their abortion request to a doctor within eight weeks and one day. This restricts treatment options and we think that this is undesirable. The medical termination of pregnancy was only developed in the second half of the 1980s and approved in the US in the year 2000 for use by the authorities. This pregnancy break-up occurs with one oral and four vaginal tablets. This is a completely different treatment from the method used in the 1970s, when the current law came into being. In this respect, too, the legislation is now very out of date and this initiative proposal is a clear improvement and modernisation that is in line with the present time. Mr. Chairman. Not the length of the period of reflection should be decisive, but the quality of the conversation between the woman and the doctor. The abolition of the minimum period of reflection creates a flexible period of reflection. A decision on abortion is a far-reaching decision, which must be considered and carefully taken. In practice, talking to the doctor is very important, not the mandatory period of reflection. Countries such as Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark do not have a mandatory minimum period of reflection. The World Health Organisation, the WHO, also points out that countries using such a period of reflection reduce women to a person who is unable to decide autonomously. Mr. Chairman. What is really unacceptable to our group is that women who face this difficult choice, once they have made the choice for abortion, are intimidated and harassed at abortion clinics by anti-abortion activists who even make women as murderers. Even now, the directive on the supervision of women considering termination of pregnancy is being used, in which the health care provider examines the emergency situation of women, but also discusses fear, shame, guilt and alternatives to detect any doubt. This directive may already give rise to a longer period of reflection than the mandatory period of reflection in order to reach a careful decision. This remains possible even after the adoption of this bill. Under the new law, the health care provider will also have to make sure that the request is made in a voluntary and well-considered manner. Of course, our group would also like to avoid abortions as much as possible. This can be done by intensifying information on contraception, especially in schools, of course. This includes a better explanation of the exact effect of the morning-after pill, for example, which inhibits ovulation so that there is no fertilization at all. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Most of all, our group considers this initiative law to be a clear improvement in existing abortion legislation. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Mr De Vries, who spoke on behalf of the Otten Group. The last part of the morning debate will then be addressed to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, as the last speaker. A lot of discussions have already been held, but I am going to finish this debate. Both the first and the second evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act showed that the added value of the statutory fixed period of reflection, which aims, among other things, to give women the opportunity to use specialised support in decision-making, cannot be demonstrated, while the legally fixed period of reflection creates bottlenecks. The mandatory period of reflection can be seen by women as an additional burden. And the mandatory five-day period of reflection could lead to Mr De Vries having already explained in detail that treatment options are being restricted, such as the medical treatment option, which can only apply up to the nine-week limit. That means that if you go through that boundary, you have to apply a heavier form of care. That, of course, is not what we mean by good care. It also appears that the five-day consultation period at the 24-week limit may give rise to a problem. 70% of abortion doctors, gynecologists and nurses indicate sometimes having problems with the fixed period of reflection. Also, the period of reflection is not always properly applied by referees such as general practitioners. Often there is another stack of two times five days. Moreover, the decision on abortion must never be a hasty decision, but it varies from one woman to another how much time she needs to do so. Of course, it is not the case that there has not already been a period of reflection before the moment when the woman reports to the aid worker. It is then up to the doctor to determine whether the decision has been properly considered and, if not, to provide additional space for reflection or reflection. This is tailor-made and a flexible period of reflection is more appropriate. This initiative legislative proposal therefore abolishes the mandatory minimum five-day period of reflection laid down in the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. For this purpose, it is added to Article 3 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act that the doctor and the woman shall, in accordance with the requirements of the assistance and decision-making referred to in Article 5 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, set by common agreement a period prior to the termination of pregnancy. That is what I have just mentioned in my interrupting the debate. This fits more into the context of the treatment relationship and of informed consent, as is common practice everywhere in the care sector. Mr. Chairman. In the opinion of the members of the VVD Group, this guarantees that women can carefully consider the awareness and responsibility for unborn life and the consequences for themselves, so that they can at least take time for this reflection process. It's necessary. In my group's view, because of the flexibility offered, this amendment offers additional guarantees for careful consideration and optimal treatment. In this way, the change strengthens the careful and high-quality abortion practice, as we have known in the Netherlands since 1984. Finally, Mr President. In the written question round, I drew attention to the absence of the evaluation provision in the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. I therefore welcome the fact that during the vote in the House of Representatives on the proposal by Mrs Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen, Mr Kuiken, I think it will indeed be Mrs Kuiken, but we do not know this yet: Fathernotte and Mr Van Wijngaarden to amend the law on the termination of pregnancy in connection with the legal medical termination of pregnancy by the general practitioner, i.e. the ability of the general practitioner to provide the abortion pill, an amendment has been adopted which regulates the inclusion of an evaluation in the Waz. If that proposal is also adopted in this Chamber, the law on termination of pregnancy will be reviewed every seven years. The VVD Group considers a seven-year deadline to be a very long one, but I would like to go into this in more detail when dealing with the legislative proposal. As far as the inclusion of an evaluation clause in the law is concerned, waiting for that bill to be dealt with in this Chamber. However, when that bill will be rejected by this Chamber, the Waz still lacks an evaluation clause. In that case, I would consider tabling a motion in plenary session, possibly, to include an evaluation clause in the Waz, for example by means of a collecting law. Finally, Mr President. I'm gonna end with this. I would like to ask the Minister what he will do with the other recommendations mentioned in the second evaluation. Is there an agenda for that yet? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u158	Mr De Bruijn began her story by saying that the added value of a period of reflection has not been demonstrated. In my contribution, I have shown that the first and second evaluations did not specifically examine whether a decision could be made on the fixed period of reflection. One could say that this period of reflection may have to be shorter, but neither of these studies makes any comment on the idea that a fixed period of reflection of zero days is then possible. My question is: how do you come to the conclusion that it has no added value? This is not mentioned in the investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u159	Thank you for this question. The first evaluation report states that the added value cannot be demonstrated. It is, of course, very difficult to say when the period of reflection starts and whether or not someone has changed their mind within five days. That kind of information is very difficult to get up to. However, I have started my speech mainly with the disadvantages of the fixed period of reflection, for example that certain treatment periods can already be exceeded. Therefore, a heavier form of treatment should be used. I don't think that's a good concern. I have already said in interruptions that I think a period of reflection is important. Again, that's under the law. Only, it can take longer and it can take a shorter time. I believe that this process is carefully enshrined in the law. I am particularly concerned about the question: should you, as a legislator, hang on to it for at least five days? This allows you to cross borders at the same time, for example in the treatment perspective, which means that you have to give someone a heavier treatment. In the context of responsible care, I think that is an incorrect outcome. That's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u160	In all honesty: if you do good, careful, qualitative research with in-depth interviews, you can say more about that. In the first and second evaluation, this type of in-depth interviews for women's experiences were not done. This means that it is also very difficult to balance the advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u161	Mr. Verkerk mostly recalls the research and the research methodology. What is the point of having a number as legislator attached to a period of reflection in a process that should in fact take place between the aid provider and the woman? In fact, there are all kinds of safeguards in the law to ensure that the process is conducted carefully. You then say: it must take as long or as short as it takes to come to a careful consideration. That obstacle is indeed mentioned by the interviewee by a minimum number of five days. This also means that in some cases certain deadlines for certain treatment options are exceeded. That could be at the disadvantage of the woman again. That is also a very important consideration for me to say: that number of five days must be out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u162	Finally, Mr Verkerk. A debate with Mr Verkerk on scientific interpretations is always dangerous. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u163	I think the debate is not dangerous, but it is also about the arguments, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u164	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u165	A very important point, of course, is that the legislator cannot consider it if it has not been properly investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u166	I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u168	I'll be sure to finish. Other arguments have, of course, been mentioned by others why we say: the period of reflection should not have been brought into the law at all. We just see the drawbacks of that. Careful care and within the time limits that could be used for this, I put it first. I don't need very extensive investigations for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u169	Thank you. I think this was also the answer to the last question or observation. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-eerstekamer-3.u170	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m. The discussion of the bill will continue this evening.
