ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on online security and cybersecurity. The committee debate on this was held on 7 April last. We have a limited number of speakers. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament present, the Minister for Justice and Security and, of course, the people who are following the debate here in the Chamber or at a distance. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken, on behalf of the D66 Group, for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look back at a good debate with the Minister of Justice and Security on cyber security. I welcome her commitment to an up-to-date cybersecurity strategy before the summer, focusing on reducing the fragmentation of our digital resilience. But my concerns for a safe digital Netherlands remain great. Whether it is locks that are just opened by hackers or cheeses that are not on the shelves, all sectors in our society need to become more resilient. We not only have the heroes of DIVD, who protect our organizations, but we also need to see if we can do more together public and private. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hackers actively scan for companies that have not installed patches against known vulnerabilities;]] [[Whereas the protection of businesses and organisations in a large number of non-vital sectors is nevertheless important in order to avoid social disruption;]] [[noting that we need to strengthen non-vital sectors against threats as soon as possible, even before the revision of the European Network and Information Security Directive (NIB2);]] [[calls on the Minister to actively encourage industry organisations, business associations and other sector boards to deploy sectoral patch brigades that actively approach their members and help close known vulnerabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Ginneken.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-843]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mrs Van Ginneken. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Rajkowski for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u5	I was starting to wonder if there was room for that, but I'm just gonna do it anyway. In the committee debate Mrs Van Ginneken also mentioned the patch brigades. There was a somewhat hesitant response at the time. To be honest, I can't imagine much of it myself. Is there going to be a team of civil servants knocking on the door at companies to come and patch things up? Is that what I'm supposed to imagine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u6	I am very pleased with Mr Rajkowski's question, because that is not exactly what I mean by patch brigades. The aim is to encourage private sectors to do more to help and support their members, companies and organisations within such a sector. It is an appeal to the Minister to allow business and sector organisations to take more responsibility. Those can be a sector or branch organisation for collective doing things for members. Such a patch brigade could actively approach members from such a sector organisation and advise on how to do things and guide them in them. It is mainly the drive for private sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u7	Then I still don't understand. We have the Digital Trust Center right now. The desire of the VVD and, of course, of D66 is to ensure that we can better protect our SMEs from external threats. This can be done, for example, by sharing information about upcoming hacks or by indicating: hey, make sure you run all the software updates, make sure you patch enough and on time. I still don't see what's new about this proposal. I think these topics are already playing. The Minister is coming up with a multi-annual cybersecurity program. That's what this was all about. So I don't see what this is new in, except that a brigade is being set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u8	Mr Rajkowski sketches it very nicely. NCSC and DTC communicate about vulnerabilities and then companies themselves have to close the gaps they have. We see that many companies are reluctant to do so. They have a low priority. So we need to go a step further than just reminding companies and providing them with information. We have to help them actively. What I hear back is also one of the backgrounds to this motion, which is that companies sometimes hesitate, because they don't know it properly. They have to install patches and then wonder what that does to their system environment. There's been a delay. If there's something we can't afford, that delay is in this area. Those patch brigades need to be seen more as some sort of flying advisory service, which can help organizations to still install those patches and support them to reduce the embarrassment of action. I see that there is an important responsibility for sector organisations to help their members. My question to the Minister is, above all, to encourage these sector organisations to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u9	Finally, Mrs Rajkowski, because you were able to exchange these arguments extensively in the committee debate. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u10	Just a little more time. I still don't see exactly what's new about it. Either the motion goes so far with a brigade knocking at the door and says "we're here to install your patches" or the motion prescribes that more information gets to organizations, but we already have that in place. I don't really see the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u11	Thank you, too, for your contribution. Mrs. Van Ginneken, you may respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u12	Yeah, I'd like that for a while. I think there's still a lot between giving information and actively entering organizations from the government to install patches. It is precisely that gap that I believe can be filled, for example, by industry and industry organisations. Calling a ruler to play an exciting role, we do so at many moments and for many topics. I note that it is also important for this issue to be seen in this way by the Minister. Hence the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u13	Thanks for the submission, too. Then I think we have come to the end of the first term of office. Then we go straight to the first term of the government. I call the Minister for Justice and Security. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also look back on a pleasant and useful debate. We are going to talk a lot about this subject in the near future. It's very important. I now come specifically to this motion. I am a little in line with the debate we have just had. If I can read the motion in such a way that it is about talking to sectors and sectors to highlight the importance of this issue, I can go along with it. I am not in favour of requiring them, as I indicated in the debate, that, in this case according to the motion, they should set up sectoral patch brigades, which is a very difficult word to pronounce at once. I said that last time, and then the motion was dissuaded. If Mrs Van Ginneken says that it is really about starting the conversation and bringing the importance to the attention of the public, if we can fill it out in that way, then I can get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u15	Mrs Van Ginneken, how should the Minister take the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u16	I very much appreciate the Minister's willingness to engage with industry and industry organisations in order to emphasise the importance of this. In that conversation, there is no obligation to have patch brigades deported. The operative part of the motion also says'stimulate', so if the Minister wishes to share this as a suggestion and not as an obligation, moratorium or whatever with the industry and industry organisations, I am very pleased. I think that it also fits her position as the ultimate responsible for cyber security to actively engage the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u17	I am very pleased with this approach, so that we can shape it that way. Then, I think, the debate that just happened will come a little closer together, because then we can also give this to the National Cyber Security Centre and the Digital Trust Center and say to them: bring this to their attention even better, because there is a need for this. Then we fill in the motion in that way and we can move towards the strategy and then follow together what it has meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u18	In any case, Madam Minister, does that mean that you will take over the motion or will the verdict become Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u19	In that sense, I could take him over, but it's just a question of whether the petitioner would agree with that. Otherwise, I'm gonna judge Chamber with this lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u20	I think that adopting the motion is a good solution, also as a contribution to reducing the number of motions on which we should vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u21	The Van Ginneken motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u22	So, we will remember that for the next debate!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u23	I hope that the next debate will go the same way. Thanks for the contributions. That concludes the debate on the second debate on online security and cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-14.u24	No motions have been tabled, so there is no need to vote.
