ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u1	This is the two-minute debate Applications and parental statements under the Law more room for new schools. Thanks again to the Minister for his presence, the spokesmen and the people who are following the debate. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. We have recently adopted a new law which states that there is more room for new schools. That has been used ferociously. I'm very concerned about that. I really feel like we ended up in some sort of bonanza of wild west applications. They are often supported by parents who hardly know what they say yes to. Municipalities sit with their hands in their hair. Existing schools may be in trouble. For this reason, I think it would be wise not to wait two years until the evaluation of this law has taken place, but to look quickly at the state of play and, in particular, at the position of the municipalities. They may, in the end, take up the bill, but they will also have to deal with the consequences of too many awards and, therefore, too many schools. Although I am really in favour of space for new schools, it should not be the case that it leads to the destruction of good, existing schools or to the bankruptcy of municipalities. I'm slightly charging now. I therefore call on the Minister from this place to take a quick look at this and tell us how he sees the situation so that we can take appropriate measures if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's just a really bad law. We should never have started this. I've seen the written consultation. People are now increasingly concerned about possible Forum Schools. Yeah, that's literally what you're causing yourself when you adopt a law that says, "It doesn't matter what people think. If they get enough signatures, they can start a school." I'm slightly charging now, because there are still some preconditions. We also see that this law leads to a lot of advertising agencies that make beautiful, fancy glossy's for trendy educational concepts. That's what they do from taxpayers' money. We also see that the law seems to promote segregation in particular and that very little has happened to the promises made in the debate on the law, namely to do something about education segregation by other means than this law. You could say that I am not entirely satisfied, but we voted against this law. There's also something crazy in the guarantee function of public education. That is quite technical and complicated, but it means that with the freedom of education that is a right of parents to come along with the duty of the government to ensure adequate public education near home. In the explanatory statement, it has been formulated in a very, very moderate way. A foundation standard is thought to be about two thirds of what it should be. That leads to a lack of clarity. This means that the position of public education is under pressure. That is why we have the next proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear what the implications of the Law are for more room for new schools for public education;]] [[Whereas there are signs that obtaining sufficient parental statements, among other things, is more difficult for the establishment of public schools due to the lack of a permanent constituency and market surveys are often expensive;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include the position of public education including the status of the public education guarantee function as a result of the Law more room for new schools in the evaluation of this law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35050-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u5	Another proposal about the glossies, the advertising agencies and all that nonsense. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Act requires more room for new schools that proposers carry out market research or obtain signatures for the establishment of a new school;]] [[believes that this is particularly encouraging that initiators spend a great deal of time in an attractive-looking concept rather than in sound education;]] [[further considers that this popularity competition does not adequately reflect the consideration at municipal level where which new school should be;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the so-called "support measures" by means of market research or signatures as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35050-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u7	Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a written consultation in which the various groups could ask questions. There was an answer to that. I have three additional questions. The first is about the additional support offer. We asked a question about that. The Minister replied that schools or promoters should indicate how they would like this additional support to take place when it is needed. I charge, but I'm very curious to know exactly what that means. How should they indicate how, for example, they are going to help children who have disabilities or who are highly gifted? Can he explain that further? Then I have a question about the division. Yesterday, the State of Education came out. There are very serious concerns about this from the education inspection. It says that basic skills are deteriorating, but it also sees increasing differences between pupils and between schools. We have also asked the Minister in writing how this growing division is being dealt with. In the answers we received, the Minister wrote that it is difficult to predict which pupil population is going to attract a new school. Well, I'm sure you do, because you know the initiators and you know the plans. You know what neighborhood a school's gonna be in. Of course, that says something about the student population. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he can discuss with the inspection how to prevent the creation of new schools from leading to a greater division. We were already concerned about this in the discussion of the law and we were already concerned about it in subsequent legislative proposals. And I'm still worried about that. Then one final point, Mr President. In the written consultation, we also asked whether there were any initiatives based on political views. We received the answer from the Ministry that the definitions of 'political opinion' differ. Well, I think it's pretty clear what we're talking about. If political parties want to set up a school, you should lie down for that. I do not think that should be the intention of this law. But I am very curious about the Minister's explanation on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u9	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Paul of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Johan Cruijff said "every disadvantage has its advantage," but I think any advantage can have its disadvantages as well. Since 2020 we have the Law more room for new schools. This law has made it easier to start a new school if there are enough parents who need it. That sounds nice, but there is a downside, because we are getting signals that false parental statements are being recruited. This can create a beaten-up picture of the need for a new school. In addition, many municipalities are in their hands, because these new schools also need to be housed. Mr Van Meenen said it too. In short, there is every reason to keep a close eye on the functioning of this law, but the evaluation is only foreseen in 2026. We think that's a little late. My party believes it is important to keep a finger on the wrist and tackle unwanted practices. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are signs of improper collection of parental statements;]] [[Whereas this may create a distorted picture of the need and basis for a new school to be set up;]] [[Whereas the creation of new schools entails a major financial challenge for municipalities;]] [[whereas an initial evaluation of this law is foreseen in 2026;]] [[Whereas, in the meantime, the law may have a negative impact on the quality of education and the viability of existing schools;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate and address undesirable practices and impacts on the establishment of new schools and to engage with the VNG on the position of municipalities in the drafting of the law;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually on the use of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Paul and Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35050-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u11	On what false grounds would those parental statements be recruited?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u12	Various situations are known to us in which parents can easily sign up to start a new school. This really does not link up enough with the real need for such a school, with the need for such a school. People are actually being lured. Mr Kwint himself referred to all kinds of glossy stories, so it might seem interesting to subscribe to them. So really the consequences of signing such a parental statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u13	That is not a false ground; that is the law. You agreed to that. That's a disastrous law, that's a ridiculous law, that's an idiotic law, that's an ill-thought-out law; I agree with it all. But this is how the law is meant. The law is intended to allow you, as initiator with such a flyer, to go to other parents and ask for signatures. And the moment parents get convinced by such a glossy.I hate it, as far as I'm concerned we stop... then that is not a false ground. That's the way this law works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u14	Look, in the end, it's about whether we feel that a school is being founded right or wrong. And I'm not gonna argue about all the legal ins and outs here. The only thing I intend to do with this is that, if schools are set up or if parents actually sign such a statement that contributes to setting up a school, that happens on valid grounds, and not because someone is lured by a shiny glossy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u15	Very briefly, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u16	Yeah, I mean... I very much agree with it: let us avoid such a proliferation. I'm just afraid you just can't get out of this legally, because there's no breaking a rule here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u17	Thank you. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u19	Then I'd like to thank you. The Minister has indicated that he needs about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u20	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u21	Mr President, thank you. Mr Van Meenen has expressed a number of concerns. These are translated into the Paul/Van Meenen motion on piece No. 51. I can see Mr Van Meenen's concerns. So we're extra alert. Nor am I going to wait for action to be taken against undesirable practices, nor am I going to act only when there is an evaluation. At least in the short term, I am going to ban the rewards for a parental statement. This scheme will be published in May. We also keep an extra finger on the pulse with the municipalities, also at VNG. I spoke to the four major congregations the other day. They also have their concerns, for example about housing that needs to be organised. This is a reason to keep an extra eye on it and to report on it more regularly, at least annually. I'll be right there, at the motion in part no. 51 by Mrs Paul and Mr Van Meenen, say something about this. The motion in part No. Mr Kwint asked for the position of public education to be explicitly taken into account. That seems very good to me, so judge Chamber. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 50 is interesting in itself. That was also the subject of a debate. The market investigation is also thinking of the parental statements "the basis for interest in a school." That, of course, also maps out some of the school's future resilience. It is actually also the foundation of the new foundation procedure. I'm not gonna interfere with that. I understand that Mr Kwint would like to touch on that. If there's excesses there, like those rewards, I'm not gonna wait for that either. So we're going to ban it. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Paul's 51 is in fact in line with Mr Van Meenen's concerns. It's about identifying unwanted practices, showing the effects of the creation and reporting annually; it's actually about keeping a closer eye on this. I think that's very wise, so judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u22	My question is linked to my own motion. I admit immediately that it does indeed touch on a rather essential part of this law. That's just a bad part. But in what way are excesses avoided? Let's take that payment as an example. I believe that this can be done with the current law, because the current law does not impose any conditions. In what way can you fight that? Should this be done by means of a ministerial arrangement or should the law be amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u23	For that we will decide, or actually publish a regulation. We can do that pretty quickly. We will also publish this scheme in May. We can use that to ban it. I do not rule out that there can be more of those kinds of points. We will therefore act immediately. This can, of course, be done at the request of the Chamber, if the Chamber sees it. Ask questions about that, I'd say. Then we'll all pay extra attention. I also understand that Mr Kwint has a further wish. That's always good. Something with which he slowly smokes out the whole law; I also think Mr Kwint is capable of doing so. In this case, I dare him to do so. I see it as my responsibility to adjust each time in the short term. This motion requests that we keep an extra eye on that. I think that's a good idea. That is different from what Mr Kwint means. He really says to delete something from the law and actually delete the whole law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u24	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u25	In any case, it is interesting to note that I do not have to hide my strategy from the Minister, because he does indeed have a sharp eye on it. I'm going to bet it over the next few years, if necessary step by step, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u26	I have a question about this, too. The motion by Mrs Paul and Mr Van Meenen calls on the government to investigate and address undesirable practices and effects regarding the establishment of new schools and to engage in discussions with the VNG. These are all things that make sense, but isn't this putting the horse behind the cart? If there are apparently undesirable practices, should you investigate, address and discuss further with the VNG, or should you not say, as Mr Kwint asks in his motion, that we stop the parental contribution and ensure a firm position of the municipality in order to resolve it in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u27	As I just said, that's an essential part of the law. That goes for the same thing here. We haven't even looked at and discussed the first overview and we don't have the excesses exactly in the picture either. We got that information a little anecdotal from the paper. I like to do it carefully. Because if they are serious things, then we will have to take them seriously, and then there will be serious support for them in the Chamber. We'll just have to rely a little on that. With the points I think there will be no doubt about in the Chamber, I will really get to work, like the point of the rewards. I understand that there is a difference of opinion about such a law, but when we have such a law, we do not benefit from it... There are also initiatives that we may say right and wrong 'hey, that is indeed a good development' or 'that is an interesting school that meets all that it should comply with'. I do not think it is right to interfere with what they have prepared and delivered in a very serious process, because then you will undermine their efforts. The excesses we have to deal with, but immediately making the rest impossible, I wouldn't think fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u28	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u29	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u30	Oh, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u31	Well, there's three of them! And I have another dessert, the Forum Schools. I'm going to say something about that. Three more questions from Mrs Westerveld. How can we help children who need extra help? This aspect is essential, but it is also essential. That's one of the six demands. The inspection also checks on this in schools, in advance and in between. So I embrace the concerns about that. We are aware of this and it is, of course, already in the requirements. The second question was about the Inspection of Education, about basic skills and differences and about a discussion with the inspection about how to prevent new schools from contributing to those divisions. I think that is a really right point, because I have seen a list of schools and there are a lot of things in between. But I can imagine that that can indeed increase divisions. Whether we really are, we will always have to see, but it seems very sensible that we are extra alert to that. At least you'll have to nip that in the bud. So you should also discuss it with the inspection in advance and whether or not to pour it into an action. So I'll start the interview with the inspection. Mr. Chairman. I come to talk about political parties. The short answer is that the school must meet legal requirements. If the school meets those requirements, it can be established. Those demands are superior. That's the point. We're really looking at the demands. I'll go specifically into the Forum Schools. You hear and read all about it, but let me just say that so far no applications are known to us. There are no applications for Forum Schools known, not private and also not funded. Both private and funded schools must comply with the law. For example, they must have qualified teachers and fill out the citizenship mission. The inspection also supervises this. New applications for funded schools in the p.o. and vo must be inside before 1 July 2022. So we can still do that, but so far they haven't been known to us. I understand that a private school is also an option. Such a school will be notified within four weeks of its establishment and the Education Inspectorate will take the test there too. So that is quite a careful procedure and it is also important. Mr President, I will come to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u32	Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u33	It's about countering segregation. The minister says he thinks it's very important that they keep an eye on it and that the inspection should also be on it. But the dilemma is that there is really no basis for that. I have previously tabled an amendment together with Mr Kwint calling for the fight against segregation to be one of the prerequisites. That amendment was judged by Chamber of the minister's predecessor and was subsequently not adopted by a majority of the Chamber. He has voted against it. If he is also concerned with combating segregation, I would therefore like to know more precisely from the Minister how we can ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u34	The easy answer is that I will, of course, discuss it with the inspection. The non-easy answer is that I don't have an answer to that right now. Then I'd have to look into that. I'm going to do that with the inspection anyway, but when I hear it like that, it doesn't sound like a very unwise amendment. I do not know what the motives of the Chamber have been for rejecting it. The question is whether you make it so hard that you include it in the demands, or whether it's a "attentive point." I can't get that back right now; I wasn't at that debate, but I'm taking it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u35	Segregation is a very broad and different subject, so I really want to end this discussion, no matter how important it is. I think that the spokesmen and the Minister will certainly be speaking more often about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u36	In fact, not so often on this subject. My idea was that the Minister, just as the President says, put his thoughts on how to deal with segregation on paper in a broader sense. You don't have to now, but we can talk about it some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u37	I understand that, Mr President, but I have already promised so much in all the debates... If I'm going to stir up the officials on all these points, it's not gonna work. I'll take this with me in the interview with the inspection. That seems to me to be a proper way of meeting the commitment I made. I take this point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u38	We have now come to the end of the debate. I thank the Minister, the spokesmen and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-14.u39	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.10 p.m. Then the two-minute debate on road safety starts.
