ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Quality Collection Services Act. The Minister has arrived. Thank you for joining us! We have four speakers from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u2	The first speaker is Mrs Kat from the D66 Group. I'd be happy to give her the floor. She has requested 10 minutes' speaking time. We're gonna sit down for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u3	It might even be a little more, Mr. Chairman. But I'm gonna do my best. Mr. Chairman. We have had to wait a long time for it, but today we are finally discussing the Quality Collection Services Act. That's what it takes. We see that people can get stuck in debt. A small debt is made like this. That could happen to the best of us. But if you can't afford it, things can get out of hand. We know that people with early debts wait on average four years before reporting to debt relief with an average debt of €40,000. And then it takes years for people to be debt-free again. It is high time that the collection industry was monitored to prevent beunhazeling. This is in the interest of debtors, but also of debt collection agencies that want to do it properly. D66 wants us to do much more about prevention, about preventing debt. It is unacceptable that people suffer from debt, stress and the lack of future prospects associated with it for years. Part of the solution lies with the collection industry. I would, of course, like to see that people do not come into contact with a collection agency at all, but that payment arrangements are made with the creditor, if necessary with a judge's ruling. My first question to the Minister is as follows. How does the Minister view the recommendation to allow judges to enforce payment arrangements? Where's the bill that's in the making for this? It should also be possible for municipalities to have more opportunities to reach an agreement with creditors. The goal: to ensure that there is one path where people can quickly escape debt-free and where debtors have as much security as possible of repayment. How's the minister looking at this? Mr. Chairman. If people are dealing with a collection agency, it must be primarily aimed at solving their problems, not at making them even bigger. D66 is a strong supporter of a socially responsible collection. That is to say, a practice aimed not only at getting the creditor to collect the money, but at a collection in which the interests of the creditor, the debtor and the company are in balance. This applies to the private collection, but certainly also to a collection from the government. We therefore see this law as a step in the right direction, but there is still much to improve. I would like to ask a number of questions on three issues: the scope of the proposal, the resale of claims and the cost of collection, and, thirdly, the monitoring and enforcement of quality requirements. Mr. Chairman. The proposal concerns collection practice on natural persons. The new quality requirements do not apply to collections from companies or small associations. In fact, it is not sufficiently clear to me why they are not involved. The Council of State notes that, for example, small associations can also be considered vulnerable to collection agencies, and so can small entrepreneurs. Why is this proposal not extended to all collection practices? Another important point concerns the collection register. All collection agencies must register there. That doesn't only apply to lawyers and bailiffs who make a collection. Information on collection service providers will also be divided into three registers. I sincerely wonder to what extent this will make it easier for residents of the Netherlands. Will it be possible for the debtor to verify whether the claim is correct? The question to the Minister is: can these registers not be linked in one way or another? Another point concerns scope. This proposal does not concern government collection, while the government is one of the largest creditors in the Netherlands. We have also seen that a great deal has gone wrong in this regard. My question to the Minister is: what demands does the government impose on itself? D66 has been advocating for some time that all public collections should be brought together in a single collection agency, so that the resident has to deal with a one-stop shop for outstanding payments to the government. As far as I am concerned, this should not become a new debt collection giant, but a social institution, closely linked to debt relief and whose main objective is a sustainable financial future. I understand we're working on a clustering of the state debt collection. Does the Minister agree with me that the resident should be able to contact the government at a point of contact when it comes to collection? Is he prepared to work out the proposal for a single collection agency and share it with the Chamber before the end of this year? My second topic is the sale of claims and the cost of collection. A small debt can easily grow into a big debt. We all know the example of an unpaid telephone bill of a few tens, which ultimately becomes a claim of several hundred euros. This new bill takes a step towards reducing the cost of collection for debtors. I think we can and should go much further. The cumulation of forward claims in the case of claims up to €266,67 is effectively countered. It is unclear to me why this proposal focuses solely on forward claims. For example, in web stores, but perhaps also in other sectors, several smaller claims may arise in a six-month period, the ratio between principal and collection costs being lost. Why is the proposal limited to these forward claims? What other possibility does the Minister see to ensure that the ratio between principal and collection costs remains better in balance? I understand that there will be a bill to reduce registry costs. That is a good, good start, but we also see that there are high costs in cases where the debtor defaults. What can the Minister do to reduce these costs? We put questions to the House on 21 February. Unfortunately, we are still waiting for the answer. Mr. Chairman. Part of the collection costs stem from the resale of debts. Large collection agencies are 60% engaged in resold claims. Where the creditor is liable to VAT and sells the claim, the claim shall be transferred to a creditor who is not liable to VAT. This has the major effect of increasing collection costs and operational costs by the VAT transfer of 21%, while the debtor has no influence on the creditor's choice whether or not to sell the claim. It is therefore reasonable not to charge those costs to the debtor. It'll happen now. My question to the Minister is: is the Minister prepared to ensure that the VAT storage for collection costs and the VAT storage for duties only apply when the original debtor is not liable to VAT?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u4	Then there is the point that my colleague from D66 raised, namely the VAT that passes and is passed on to the unsuspecting consumer. I've never seen this before as a former lawyer. I've been assisting telecom companies and factoring as well. A claim is made by way of a transfer. Apologies, it's getting a little technical today, but I can't do much about that. But I have never seen VAT being passed on to the consumer or to the debtor, which is contrary to all kinds of legal provisions. Do you have any reason to suspect that this is happening a lot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you for your question. I'm sure there's a reason for that. Also a debt expert like André Moerman has written extensively about this. Since 2017, debt experts have been working on this. It's a thorn in the eye. I also believe that the additional costs should not be borne by the debtor if debts are to be reselled. That is in addition to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u6	In addition to Mr Ellian's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yes, I apologize, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the Minister also has the examples he considers important to indicate. I can see that in practice, and I would like that to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u8	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good. Ultimately, it is important that less unnecessary collection operations are carried out. Collection agencies may charge an amount for each operation. As a result, costs can rise rapidly. So there is now a register of third-party seizures, but this does not solve the problem. Various solutions are possible for this problem, including the registered debt regime. In doing so, one collection agency or a bailiff is given a directing role, which means that other creditors no longer have to go to court. This saves considerably the costs for the debtor. Discussions on this matter have resumed at my request, but the question is, of course, where are we, Minister? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has also committed itself to doing more about the perverse incentives of market forces. Following a motion by my colleague Van Weyenberg, there is a ban on kickback fees. I wonder how bailiffs and creditors are monitored for price agreements. I keep having a little trouble with the no-cure-no-pay constructions. Do we have a good understanding of the effects of this on the number of collection costs that are incurred and end up on the debtor's plate? Finally. My final point concerns monitoring and enforcement. I'm going back to the bill. The monitoring of quality requirements is now being invested with several parties. That makes it inefficient and certainly not clear for debtors. I find the argument why supervision is organised at the JenV Inspection thin. It is claimed that certain criteria have been assessed, but no further explanation is given as to why the inspection was the best outcome. We are going with this proposal from four to five supervisors in the collection agencies. I don't think that makes any sense. Why is the inspection the best party to carry out this monitoring and not, for example, the Financial Supervision Office, an opinion of the Council of State? It seems that some financial arguments have given rise to this, while it is unclear to me whether this will benefit quality. As far as I am concerned, the system of supervision relies on reports from people dealing with debt collection agencies because of the limited time available for monitoring. How do we ensure that those debtors find the procedures right when they are dealing with abuses? Is it not therefore better to work towards one register, as I indicated at the beginning? I started with a plea for a socially responsible collection. This also includes better cooperation between debt collection agencies and an important reference function. This also sometimes requires that the collection agencies are well acquainted with the social map of the environment in which they operate. That's an assignment to all collection service providers. I'll ask the Minister how he sees it. It is also important that they know when someone is already in debt relief. The Index on Debt Assistance plays a major role in this. Not all municipalities are connected to them. My question is, of course, why not? Rounding up. I see this proposal as a necessary but not a sufficient step towards a new debt management process. In the area of debt collection and debt relief, we really need to think differently, because if we continue in this way, people will be burdened by debt stress for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. Then Mr Van Kent of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can take over from Mr Van Nispen, who unfortunately could not be present at this debate. Mr. Chairman. If you buy something or take a service, you have to pay for it. Deal's a deal. It's as simple as that. The Civil Code has rules on how such a claim can be collected. This can be done by the creditor himself, but also by the use of a collection agency. Those collection agencies aren't the most popular organizations. They are rarely received with cheers, but are important in our legal system. This already has quite a political history. Many debates have been held on the level of collection costs, on the debt collection behaviour of the government itself and also on whether there should be a register. This law is about the latter. The cabinet wants to increase the quality of collection agencies. Of course, the SP can only welcome that. This law proposes a registration requirement for collection service providers. Companies or sole proprietorships will only appear in the register if certain conditions are met, including the absence of relevant background information from the applicant and the possibility to provide a statement of conduct. That is, let us be clear about that, a good thing. However, we do not understand very well why these quality improvements should mostly come from self-regulation and possibly later on, general measures of governance. Then, if necessary, there will only be further implementation of these rules. The implementation of these requirements to enter the register and the specific quality requirements seem to be left to the sector, while in recent years it has been shown that this is not enough. For example, the Wki will not determine the content of the criteria for competence and quality requirements. Why not? That is not clear to us. Are there or are they not going to come up with these general measures of governance and what will be in them? What has been done with the criticism of the NSA on this point? Why are no greater steps being taken to protect vulnerable people with money problems? A second remark: this law only lays down rules for debt collection agencies engaged by creditors, but not for those creditors themselves. It can collect itself. Of course, that's happening. What if certain housing companies, energy companies, health insurance companies or many small parties behave badly? The rules we are discussing today do not apply to them. What means does the injured party have? Mr. Chairman. Then the resale of claims. D66 talked about that, too. It is a special process because the debtor has no influence on the creditor's choice whether or not to sell the claim and is therefore at the discretion of the creditor. I agree with the questions that D66 has asked about the VAT situation that may arise. The National Organization of Social Councils pointed this out to us. I would like to ask the Minister, following D66, to see if that problem can be solved. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the unregistered agencies. This bill stipulates that, if you paid to an unregistered collection club, you paid or paid incorrectly and that you do not have to pay it again. Fine to force creditors towards registered collection agencies, but isn't it much more important that those unregistered collection clubs are dealt with? What is the Minister going to do about this in concrete terms? Does the Minister also see the danger of a pitters who cannot bear the supervisory costs, €2,300 occasionally and €1,300 a year, and then decide not to register? Another point in this respect is the wording of the proposed Article 18 (2). Article 18 aims to ensure that a debtor does not incur collection costs for the activities of a non-registered collection service provider. All in order to further discourage the use of an unregistered office by a creditor. Is it now settled that collection costs should not be charged at any time if a non-registered collection service provider has been used at any time during the collection phase? Should this not also be done if after this unregistered collection agency a well-registered collection service provider is used? My question to the Minister is: is it true that in no way does it pay to try to use an incassocowboy? Then there's supervision. I can only say that this is being handled a little strangely now. Many parties are also critical of this. Looks like it's gonna be a rat's-eye. The Council of State is also critical of this. The ACM has a role as supervisor. So is the AFM. The lawyers' blanket and the BFT oversee the bailiffs. What does this bill say? Let's add the inspection JenV as the fifth supervisor. Is that wise? Can the Minister clarify why not the BFT, but the JenV Inspection, which lacks knowledge and experience in this area, becomes the supervisor in the out-of-court collection sector? How is the cooperation between the BFT and the blanket, which will monitor the bailiffs and lawyers, on the one hand, and the inspection, on the other? Isn't all this unnecessarily complicated? What should we expect from that supervision itself? Once every three years the supervisor arrives between lunch and dinner to check that everything is going well. Is that enough? Especially for an industry of which we all know the undesirable excesses. If we really want to improve quality, will we not do well and start with proper supervision? I really want a comprehensive answer to this. What can we do to strengthen surveillance? Is the Minister prepared to make more money available for this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the CJIB's actions. The law is mainly about out-of-court collections, but I would also like to mention the judicial collections, in particular the role of the government in ensuring that the collection of such collections is properly carried out. The government is one of the largest, if not the largest, creditor. Then you hope that he has his affairs in order and not only speaks on paper of socially responsible collection, but also puts that into practice. What is the Minister doing to get the government to behave properly and to ensure that people are not thrown further into misery? Is a distinction now being made in all cases between people who cannot pay and those who do not want to pay? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. Mr Ellian from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u13	You set the bar high, Mr. Chairman. As I just recalled, as a lawyer, I assisted a major telephone provider, but I was also on the other side. People got into this mess because of unjustified claims that were cashed by debt collection agencies. I've seen a lot of things come along. I don't know if Mr. Ceder might be able to make a supplement in a moment. Information costs, file costs, administration costs, handling costs, reminder costs: they are all costs that are not required by law from the debtor. That is, of course, what we are talking about today: the protection of the debtor. I would like to mention the following: I like the fact that Mr Van Kent has just mentioned this. We do have a balance sheet to monitor, because the position of the creditor is of course also important in a legal system where the starting point is that the Latin Minister loves: pacta sunt servanda, you have to honour agreements. That balance is therefore important. On the one hand, there is the protection of the debtor, but on the other hand, it is of course also important that creditors are ultimately paid, provided that they are reasonable and under the law. Collection costs are therefore an incentive for compliance. That is also what the extrajudicial collection costs were once intended for. I think it's important to remember that here today. But an incentive for fulfilment is, of course, quite different from the practices that we have unfortunately seen in recent years and which actually exist until today. Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, in 2012, I remember well, the Decision on extrajudicial collection costs was created to put an end to the so-called double reasonableness test for consumers-debtors. The point was that the government and ultimately the Chamber felt that uncertainty and uncertainty among debtors should be removed and that standards were necessary in order to ultimately improve the position of debtors. Now we're ten years away. The position has improved, but there is still a lot of uncertainty. That balance between the position of creditor and debtor is the balance that we ultimately have with each other to monitor. Mr. Chairman. I'll go through a number of topics in my term. They are, of course, in line with the issues that my colleagues have appointed. As far as I am concerned, I shall begin with the most important lack of this bill: these are the concrete standards. I just recalled 2012 when the recital was: we want to remove uncertainty and uncertainty and ultimately we want to standard what may and should not be done with regard to collection costs. Article 13 of the present bill now identifies "sufficient competence," "sufficient training" and "correct handling of debtors." I sign for it and I wish that this is the daily practice. But what that is exactly and how collection agencies are to implement these generally formulated standards is not in the law. It says that it can be further developed at AMvB, but I think that is a great pity. I think that the government should have included this concreteisation in the bill. It needs to be discussed here. That, I believe, is the essence of the legislative proposal. If you want to standardize certain behavior, in this case from the collection agencies, then you will also have to specify those specific standards. What is "sufficient skill"? Do you, I don't know, have to have degrees a and b? Does "correct handling" mean, for example, that you respond within a day? Because I can assure you that I, as a lawyer occasionally, wasn't sure if you even got a response from certain agencies; I won't mention the names. I miss that specificity, so my question to the Minister is: do you also see this as a loss? Mr. Chairman. Those standards, which ultimately have to fill in the behaviour of collection agencies, are, of course, the essence. But standards must be maintained, at least, that is the wish of this bill. When I go to the subject of surveillance, I'm a little surprised too. The choice for the JenV Inspection doesn't seem very logical. We have the BFT, the Financial Supervision Office, which is highly equipped to monitor this issue. After all, bailiffs are also often involved in collection. But also: how is this supervision designed? That's all I care about. If you have a lack of concrete standards and it is not clear where the consumer-debtor should go in a dispute with a collection agency, what exactly does this bill add? 'Cause that's what it's about. The debtor is confronted with an unjustified letter or a letter from which a consumer-debtor can also see: this is strange. Yeah, so what? Then it is still its own responsibility to discuss with the collection agency. In my opinion, there are plenty of examples where this discussion ultimately causes stress for the debtor. It could be trouble, and eventually you're gonna have to go to court. But apart from that, of course you can say: there is a responsibility of your own for those to call the bell. Of course. But if that collection agency doesn't give in now, or is using a wrong amount or isn't willing to listen at all, what are you going to do? I think the inspection itself may be accessible, but the citizen cannot complain directly. How does the Minister see that? I would also like to add my voice to the questions put by my fellow Members: is this actually monitoring? Because in the end supervision is also about not having system supervision, in this case that you do a check every few years, but that you can take the complaints from those debtors, from that citizen to you and then ask that collection agency: gosh friends, what exactly is the purpose of this? I miss that in the bill. In this context, I would also like to ask the Minister the following. If we have strict supervision of bailiffs and lawyers, then that's real supervision of a different order than what's in the bill here. How do you look at the position of bailiffs? Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that we should give it a bigger role in advance, but you can also think about it for the future and see if perhaps the bailiff should get a different position in this. After all, there is much stronger supervision there. Mr. Chairman. The third issue is a bit legal, but I can't help it. Mr Kat also asked about the accumulation of collection costs. I wonder, with all due respect and reasonableness, whether the proposed paragraph 8... I wonder how colleagues have read this paragraph 8. You are a handsome person if you can deduce from this proposed member that you can charge €40 collection costs the first time in advance and then only €20. That will also be the case, and I think this is a mistake, because the amendment to the Decision does not yet entail collection costs. I understand that this is an AMvB and that this can be done later, but for the whole it would have been nice if we had seen that change. For all the examples in the note relating to the report and those fine cases with the calculation contained in the explanatory statement cannot be traced back from the proposed law. Besides, I have a concern. If you do not want this legislative proposal to lead to more ambiguity rather than clarity and a limitation on that cumulation, which we all want, then the legislative proposal must be clearly and effectively formulated. So my question is: when can we expect the adjustment of the Decision on collection costs? How does the Minister view the proposed paragraph 8 of Article 96 of Book 6? Is that clear enough for him? Does the Minister think that this provision really reduces the accumulation of collection costs? Finally, Mr President. What I always thought was an extremely annoying discussion myself when I was a lawyer, is the question of how often you should suggest someone. I will not dwell entirely on the difference between saying and failing, but do you agree with me that actually the proposed route...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u14	Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u15	Sorry, excuse me, Chairman. Does the Minister agree with me that the spirit of the law is that you send a notice of default, then a 14-day letter and that, provided that a number of other conditions are met, collection costs are due? This is something that often leads to questions and discussions in practice. If we can solve that uncertainty, it's worth a sweet thing to me. That was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u16	Very good. A question from Mrs. Kat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u17	A question to Mr Ellian about the scope of the bill towards small entrepreneurs, perhaps the local sports association. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u18	How does Mr Ellian view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u19	How does Mr Ellian view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u20	It's a good thing you're raising us, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u21	A little upbringing to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u22	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. I always take that with respect to me. I understand that D66 colleague is throwing this out. I do have some reservations on this one. This has to do with the fact that our private law is based on the right to the distinction between the consumer, the person from whom you cannot expect certain knowledge or, for example, negotiating power, in relation to, for example, the entrepreneur, who can organise it. But, of course, there's a gray area there. You're right to cut that grey area. I'm going to see what the Minister says, but I do think we should keep a distinction between the consumer-debtor, the private person, thezzp'er, who is also a natural person, and yet the larger legal entities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you for the explanation. Another question concerns, as far as I am concerned, perhaps also the imposition of a payment system by the courts. Mr Dekker, the previous minister, would send a bill to the Chamber for this purpose. How does Mr. Ellian look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u24	Honesty requires me to say that I do not know that at the moment. I've never seen the bill of former Minister Dekker that never came. Here's what I'm gonna say. I've been through a lot of hearings where the judge finally sent me to get out of it. It is precisely in those who are talking about a build-up of debts that you want to see a regulation put in place as soon as possible. I told you three quarters of a year ago, I think, how I handled that as a lawyer. I myself said proactively, "Your Honor, we're gonna take care of it, and I'm gonna see what costs don't have to be paid." Should you give that mandatory jurisdiction to the judge? The question is, in which cases, and in which cases, is it not? However, I recognise the general principle that making more payment arrangements will improve the debtor's position and ultimately reduce the debt problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u25	The first term of the Chamber shall be closed by Mr Ceder of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. A crooked collection agency that sends a whatsapp message in the middle of the night with the message that thousands of euros will have to be paid within two days. A mother who tries to make ends meet and receives a letter stating that she has to pay an amount within five days to avoid further costs "and troubles." Spinning cameras that step off on defaulters and thus try to intimidate them to get a bill paid. A collection agency that, after resale, tries to recover a loan with a value of €20,000 at an interest rate of up to €29,000, on top of that €20,000. Extrajudicial costs, information costs, delay costs, execution costs, meaning costs, litigation costs... Cost, cost, cost. Mr. Chairman. These are a few of the many examples that I have managed to get out of old files in the preparation of the handling of this bill. As a lawyer, I have spent many years in front of crooked debt collection agencies who have intimidatedly harassed vulnerable people and often charged higher costs than the law would allow. I therefore find it special to be allowed to stand here as a Member of Parliament and to deal with this law. It is high time that the government lifted the shield against malicious parties trying to abuse people who are threatening to fall into a financial swamp and from the law. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the collection register, or the bill that sets this up, is a long-cherished and heavily fought wish. Mr. Chairman. I think Mr. Ellian referred to it: collections do have a function. After all, if someone doesn't pay something he does deserve to pay, we also think that you should pay a debt that has been made, in principle, then a collection can help to stimulate such a person who doesn't want to pay by charging an additional amount on top of it, in the hope that he will pay. But this way of thinking also goes crooked somewhere. There are a lot of people who don't want to pay, and then a financial incentive can help. But there may be more people who can't afford to pay. If you accumulate costs on people who cannot pay the original amount, you will end up in an unjust situation. This is true if a private party does so, but so is, as some colleagues have pointed out, if the government does so. We are not talking today about government debt collection, but I do have a question about that: when are we going to deal with the promised re-evaluation of the national debt collection vision? For there too, as far as we are concerned, there is a possibility of injustice that we must fight. Mr. Chairman. When I go to the content of the law, I notice that it is quite an empty law; there is still much to be determined. We agree with the idea that it is important that people who want to take on an important task by providing a collection service should be closely monitored, so that those people also have the right luggage, they are the right people and those people know how to collect in a responsible manner. But there's still a lot to settle. The Council of State also indicated: that what you can arrange must also be incorporated into the law, because it is important that people can know from law what their rights or duties are. But there is still a lot open. My question is a difficult one: whether the Minister thinks that this way the law, including the involvement of the other parties, is as complete as possible. Or can we fill in some of the good intentions with a little more time, which I also read and which I am pleased with, so that the law can be more colored? I have already mentioned it: it is a wonderful framework, but I think we want more than one framework. And I wonder to what extent all that should be arranged through an AMvB. That is an open question, but I want it put here anyway. Questions have also been asked about supervision. We, too, have questions about this, as do the Council of State and a number of colleagues. Because it's a lot, and it's a lot of different parties. I wonder whether a double responsibility is now being placed on some supervisors. Take the blanket, for example. As a lawyer, I knew if I do anything wrong, whether it's a collection case or something, I'd get him on my ass. I do not need new legislation for that. Even if this law were not to be passed, I think the rug could be done, but I would like to hear it from the Minister for Lawyers who are doing a debt collection case but who are completely screwed up or perhaps not complying with the rules, to start an investigation. Therefore, the blanket does not necessarily have to be inserted into this law. I think so, but I'm asking the Minister if that's true. And if it's true, isn't it unnecessary to include the blanket in this, because it already has an independent job to control lawyers in the wider sense? The same may apply to the bailiffs. I do not yet have a value judgment on this, but these are questions that I have precisely because I understand and want to contribute to the purpose of the law, so that we can monitor in a clear way and ensure that it is collected in a socially responsible manner. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ellian put it on the table. And it doesn't really fit into this law, but I'm going to mention it anyway because it is indeed an important point. Doorkeepers have a very important role to play in our society. And what is striking is that for bailiffs doing debt collection services, there are a lot of financial perverse incentives in the current system, as well as in the current funding system, which I say could lead to serious accidents. I think it would be good to look at the position of bailiffs, because they have an important role to play and I wonder if perverse financial incentives that we create as a government might also unnecessarily force or lead to situations that bailiffs and society do not want to be in. How does the Minister view that? I know it's different from the bill, but Mr. Ellian just put it on the table. That all depends on the bigger question: how do we want to deal with each other when it comes to taking it towards citizens, towards consumers, often also in vulnerable situations? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of when to intervene in a collection agency that is registered. I just referred to lawyers getting a slap on the back of the blanket. I don't see something yet. And I don't know if this should be laid down in a law or perhaps more precisely, but there is one par excellence party that has a very important signal function, which can see if there are debt collection agencies that repeatedly commit the same abuses that you want to pick out, and that is the court. Judges in canton cases get a hearing every few minutes. In my opinion, it was the case in the past, but I do not know if it is still the case in 80% of canton cases in the Netherlands are sentencing by default. So in 80% of all lawsuits, the client doesn't show up. So you know: I can claim what I want; 80% doesn't show up, which means it's probably assigned, so checkout! A judge sees that. If that happens repeatedly, it can also say: wait a minute, I want to make a report. I see the role of the judiciary, and I am not talking about an obligation, but I am talking about a signal not yet in the law, which, in my view, is a very important aspect in order to achieve the purpose of the law. I do not know yet whether you should include it in the law and perhaps I am considering a motion, but I do wonder whether the Minister sees and recognizes this as 'we can do something with it'. I think it is a very important partner to pick out the rotten apples. By the way, there are also a lot of debt collection agencies that are doing just fine, to whom I would also like to express my thanks because they have an important role to play. But it's precisely those who push people who are already in a vulnerable position into the swamp that we want to pick out. I think the judge could be the eyes we need. Two short points. The law on collection costs is not dealt with and is not amended. We're changing a certain system. My question here is whether we should not, in fact, evaluate or test the law on collection costs, which refers to the amounts, the deadlines and the rules, in order to determine whether people are being allowed to collect responsibly. Should not an AMvB, together with social partners, consider whether this still meets the spirit of time and what we want, I ask the Minister. I'm considering a motion on this point. Finally, interest-rate maximization. I have just mentioned the example of a loan of €20,000 where €29,000 in interest can be added, because there is no interest maximization. Sometimes there's a judge who limits that, but that's not self-evident. I therefore wonder whether something can be done about this kind of abuses. I am also considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I understand that this debate is also intended for former lawyers to look back on their careers, but that is part of the transitional phase. So that's what we're happy to do. The Minister has asked for half an hour's reflection. So I'm suspending until 4:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u28	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. An important bill is on the table. Many speakers have been able, as you have just said, to point out what we are actually talking about today, which also makes it a discussion of the human dimension and of feasibility, a discussion that concerns society. Some speakers have made it clear that this law regulates something that is not yet regulated. We're at scratch level, zero level. I am well aware that this proposal was once in Rutte III as such in the coalition agreement and that we are talking today about the impact on implementation. There's a lot of time in between. At the same time, I have noticed that various questions that have been asked to me are sometimes so technical that they are fantastic, good and justified. Sometimes I see a desire on the part of Members of Parliament for a piece of work and implementation, and that is precisely what we are dealing with in the general measure of governance. That's one. A second observation. I have also been asked substantive questions. Then I come into the portfolio of fellow Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. Let me say first of all that I have listened carefully to these questions and will certainly pass them on to my colleague. I will also ask my colleague to inform the Chamber about this. Mr. Chairman. First, I come to my general introduction. Next, I would like to address quality requirements, claims sold, and I will include VAT in that too, after that, on the cumulation and collection costs, debt issues, scope of the bill, and then I will also deal with the obligation to register, and supervision and enforcement. I have deliberately put Article 13 through you, Mr President, to Mr Ellian, because it contains the generalities and the deepening of the general measure of governance. I will present it in April in consultation and then I will send it to you with all my heart, so that you can watch. This is too important a subject not to ensure a piece of acceptance, adaptiveness and support. I would like to make use of the knowledge and skills of the NSA, which represents 60% of the collection service providers, some 26 to 27 collection service providers, to embrace their knowledge and skills from practice and their quality requirements. However, I take responsibility for this. And with that I say: I use the knowledge of practice, but I am well aware that this is a piece of government decision. Mr. Chairman. The Quality Collection Services Act. The bill lays down rules for out-of-court collection against private debtors. With these rules, we provide citizens with greater certainty that their debts will be paid in a socially responsible manner, because that is what is needed. People who are in debt are still too often confronted with invisible costs and immorality. The Members of Parliament have covered this with various examples. A collection service provider must apply for a registration before entering the collection market. Only registered companies may carry out collection activities. That application for registration shall be evaluated in substance. If the service provider is included in the register, it will have to comply with specified quality requirements when providing collection services. There is supervision and sanctions may be imposed in case of non-compliance. Underneath the headlines I go deeper into that. The legislative proposal lays down quality requirements for the collection service provider. This means that staff in the collection services must be professionally qualified. One of the speakers was right to ask what is competent. We take that further into account in the general measure of governance. In addition, debt collection service providers have a duty of care towards debtors. The collection service provider should, when approaching a debtor, always make clear and insightful what the basis of the claim is, but also specify the principal and the interest and the extrajudicial collection costs. The collection services should also provide both the debtor and the creditor with clear information on their rights and obligations, and debtors should refer to the appropriate debt relief window in case of problematic debt. The balance between creditor and debtor, which Mr Ellian was right to talk about, is so much longer. Creditors may use the registry to ensure that they have entered into the term "bonafide" with a trustworthy debt collection service provider some of you have used. Where a debtor receives a letter of formal notice from a collection service provider which is not in the register, the debtor shall not have to pay that claim to that service provider and no collection costs shall be payable for his activities. Finally. The purpose of the adjustment of the current cumulation scheme is to prevent unwanted accumulation of out-of-court collection costs in the case of forward payments. In the last half hour I have spoken to the colleagues from the department about this. They gave me a math example. I would like to share that with your Chamber, but that is so technical and precise that I fear that some of you will not be able to keep your eyes open. It's up to you to whistle me back when I get to that chapiter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u30	I don't hear any whistling yet, but in general we can keep our eyes open here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr President, I do not doubt that for a moment. You shouldn't consider it an insult, because it's all I want this Chamber to be. The collection market is varied and diverse. I therefore see this legislative proposal as a more than essential step to gain more control here in the interests of the Dutch citizen and to ensure that people are not unduly constrained. Meanwhile, of course, this cabinet continues to work on solutions to debt problems. That is what my colleague Carola Schouten, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, is active in. Mr. Chairman. A point of attention. A collection company isn't the same as a bailiff. I would like to point that out. Having said that, I would like to address the various questions that have been put to me. I received a question from Mr Van Kent on quality standards. Why should quality improvements come from self-regulation? Compliance with requirements seems to be left to the sector. Why? Is there or is not there going to be a general administrative measure with additional measures? It is certainly not the case that I said in my introduction that quality requirements are left to the sector. An earlier version of the bill may have left too much open. Yeah, I admit that. However, following the opinion of the Council of State, clear quality requirements for collection service providers have been laid down in Article 13 of the legislative proposal. That is the core, but the substantive quality requirements must be worked out in an AMvB. I just told you when the AMvB is going to consult. You ask me if I want to implement the standards of Article 13. Yeah, I'm gonna do that in the future. You can clearly follow that process, because I want to share it with your Chamber. Mr Ellian said that standards governing the behaviour of collection agencies are essential. He saw a lack of concrete standards and rightly asked himself: what then should be maintained? Article 13 lays down substantive requirements for the quality of collection service providers and, pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 7, a further clarification will be included in the AMvB. All available information on the collection industry has been widely examined for the preparation of the quality requirements. This bill is only a first step in the legal regulation of the collection industry, a first step. I have tried, on the one hand, to strike a balance between the level and the practicality of the requirements and, on the other hand, to take account of the industry, but also to ensure that the smaller service providers on the market can meet the standards set. I just indicated when the AMvB will be treated. That was the heading of quality standards, Mr. Chairman. I now deal with the sales claims, including VAT. There was a question from D66 about that. Some of the collection costs stem from the resale of claims. Are they or are they not subject to VAT? Is it reasonable to charge those costs not for the debtor, but for the VAT payer, the original creditor? That was a question from Mrs Kat. There was some discussion about it, and I always listen to it very carefully, to see what the reality is now. Next, I have to say that it is true that in the case of the sale of claims, the debtor may have to pay 21% extra on the collection costs in connection with VAT due. Indeed, creditors are liable for VAT on the costs charged by collection agencies and bailiffs. Where the creditor is liable for VAT, the VAT may be deducted from the VAT to be paid. Where the creditor is not liable for VAT........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is because the creditor cannot offset the VAT and otherwise has to bear these costs himself. It is then the debtor who has to pay the VAT. Thus, the VAT storage is not about the main claim, but about the costs of recovering the claim. Mr. Chairman. The cumulation scheme and collection costs. It is asked when the Chamber can expect an amended decision on collection costs. The adaptation of the Decision on compensation for out-of-court collection costs, which is necessary for the cumulation scheme, will accompany the process for the general management measure for quality requirements and will enter into force at the same time. A question that has been asked concerns the system of formal notice. They mentioned Article 6:96 Civil Code and asked if this is sufficiently clear. How often should a letter of formal notice be sent? The pride was mentioned, as it is indeed present. Under Article 6:96 BW, the creditor may only charge collection charges if he has sent a letter of formal notice to the debtor, who is a consumer and who is in default under Article 6:81 BW. You rightly referred to that letter of formal notice, or the fourteen-day letter. The debtor is in default when the payment period has expired. If there is no clear time limit for payment, the debtor is in default if the creditor has failed the debtor and the debtor has not paid. The 14-day letter gives the consumer, the debtor, who is already in default, the opportunity to pay within fourteen days, without additional costs. If the debtor does not pay within 14 days, this free notice must state the consequences and the exact costs. This letter must be sent once under the law. It's a very technical answer I'm giving. I'm sorry to go so deep on it, but I hope I come across clearly. The Index on Debt Assistance was discussed. The question was asked why not all municipalities in the Netherlands are connected to this. The use of the Index on Debt Assistance is not mandatory for municipalities. Municipalities must, however, let a bailiff know on request whether someone is receiving debt relief. Therefore, the use of the Index of Debt Assistance is more than encouraged by both the Association for Debt Assistance and the Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs. I can't force it, actually, is my answer. What if a judge finds that the collection costs charged by a particular collection service provider are incorrect? Then where can this judge go with this signal? And how is it going to be dealt with? These are questions I received from the Christian Union; very logical and justified questions, I think. Article 17 of the bill provides that the collection service provider is to be deleted if it does not comply seriously with the rules laid down by or under the law. That's a stick behind the door. In the run-up to the removal of registration, Article 9 (3) may also be suspended. Therefore, judges can send signals to the supervisor, in the same way as they are already doing so. As far as I am concerned, the same procedure and the same procedure apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u32	There's a logic in what the minister says. If this applies to lawyers who fail in the collection services, the court may file a complaint with the blanket, which is referred to by law as a supervisor. For a bailiff, that's somewhere else. Can you specify in concrete terms what a court or judge can turn to if a collection agency is not a lawyer or bailiff? That possibility does not exist at the moment, because the private entrepreneur is not necessarily liable for disciplinary action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u33	Justis registers and checks that someone can be entered in the register. As I propose, it is then explicitly the inspection that raises the hand and checks whether the rules are being observed, under supervision and enforcement. That's my explanation. I'm just gonna look to the right and see if I'm gonna promise something that's not right. You nod, so this is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you for the clarification. For the sake of clarity, if a collection agency fails repeatedly and deliberately or unconsciously, a canton court may refer the matter to the JenV Inspection. The judge can send a letter: I often come across this; can you do something with this? The inspection will then take that on its own and see if the signal leads to possible actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u35	That is exactly what I want and how I see the practical implementation. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the debt issue. A lot of questions have been asked about that. In particular, they asked how a Dutchman who has debts would get rid of that. Let me be clear. As a matter of principle, I believe that debts should be able to be repaid as quickly as possible. In my previous work as mayor of Almere, Velzen and Niedorp, I saw how long people can stay in debt problems and how many years on water and bread that means, with serious, bald, nasty situations. The letter of 3 November 2021, following the Van Beukering motion, states that all steps of recovery within the chain are justified in themselves, but that the sum of them may lead to excesses. That is why I want to go to a system of alert confidence. This has also emerged in the joint paper from the parties of the theme tables. I think it is important to make a quick and clear distinction between the debtors involved. You talked about that. Are we dealing with a debtor who won't pay? Or are we dealing with a debtor who can't pay? I think you need to map these differences clearly. I will therefore first make clear the various steps in the collection and execution process, so that it becomes clear whether action is possible or whether steps other than collection or execution should be taken, such as debt relief or protection management. We need to differentiate, see what we're talking about, see what the problem is and what to do about it. I believe that this will give us an orderly process. Mr. Chairman. It has been asked whether I will come up with a bill that will ensure that the judge can impose a payment arrangement. Sometimes I stand on the shoulders of giants or my predecessors. I can answer this in the affirmative, because this has already been put into effect. A legislative proposal is currently being prepared on this point. The aim is to allow the draft legislative proposal to be consulted in the first half of the year. I've already gone into the Index on Debt Relief. This is a good methodology to gain insight into the people who have reported on debt relief. Once again, the municipalities cannot be obliged to join. I do advise them to do that. I see a trend in which more and more municipalities are joining. We have been asked what demands the government is imposing on itself. If we combine the government collection into one agency, does the Minister agree that the citizen should be able to go to one collection agency? That was a question from MP Kat. I fully embrace that thought. I'm referring to the CJIB. The CJIB carries out the payment procedures for most state organisations, except the Tax Administration. In addition, the government organisations are in the process of agreeing a central payment arrangement through the CJIB for the various accounts that a citizen has with state organisations. This will start with the CJIB and DUO, the Education Implementation Service, and then other organisations are expected to join. I was also asked if I would do anything to maximize interest rates. That is one of the points in the coalition agreement that my colleague, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, is working on. I have been informed that she will send a letter to the Chamber before the summer. Is it appropriate for a debtor to verify that a collection service provider is registered? Court bailiffs and lawyers are excluded from the obligation to register in the collection register. They have their own professional organisation where they are registered, the National Lawyers Tableau or the bailiff's register. So it is true, as some of you have pointed out, that the citizens must consult all three registers. The registers are not linked; I fully admit that. The question has been asked whether collection agencies have a view on the health card and what my thoughts are on it. I know that colleagues from Health, Welfare and Sport have the Health Care CardThe Netherlands for GPs and supporters, but what to do in case of problematic debts? How do we deal with that? I share the observation of this Chamber that the health card is certainly important for all problematic debts. Access to this, as well as contact with the municipality and awareness of the existence of this health card, is therefore widely discussed by the Minister of Health and the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions with the collection agencies and other stakeholders, such as bailiffs and debt relief workers. As you can see, I'm on the territory of another department for a moment. Mr President, so much for the problem of debt. Let me now turn to the scope of the legislative proposal. Why is the bill aimed at natural persons and not also at legal persons? After all, the Advisory Section of the Council of State also asked for this. I welcome this question. The starting point for regulating the debt collection market is the protection of vulnerable debtors. That's obvious. That is why it has been chosen to protect natural persons. A natural person bears personal liability, so can also be affected in own funds. This is not the case with a legal person. Then who are these natural persons? These may be consumers, but they may also be persons who work as a social worker, persons who have a one-man business, or persons who work in a business form that is not a legal person; think, for example, of a company under firm. This means that many small companies are not legal entities but fall within the category of natural persons. That means that they too are protected by this bill. If legal persons are brought under the scope of this law, the rules in the bill also apply to the entire business market. On this point, I believe that government intervention is considered to be disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u36	About the criterion of vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u37	You need to point the microphone towards your mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u38	Thanks for the suggestion. The Advisory Section of the Council of State has indicated that vulnerability may also apply to certain legal persons. Small-scale associations, such as local sports associations, and small, less capital-intensive associations of owners can be considered. Couldn't that be a proposal to continue working in an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u39	I hear Mrs Kat's request. Probably my explanation hasn't been clear. She wants to extend it to small associations and see whether or not they belong to natural persons, whether I should see them differently and see them and whether I should take them with me to protect them as such. I tend to hold on to the line as I just did and not admit to it. I'll take a closer look, Mr. Chairman. I have also been asked why the bill is aimed at natural persons and not at legal persons. I believe that I have responded to this. There was a further request for an evaluation and if I'm looking at the supervisor. I have stated in Article 29 that there will be an evaluation. The evaluation obligation is therefore regulated. I also said that one year after the law came into force, an introduction test is also being carried out. I am looking at the effectiveness of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Ceder indicated: is it not necessary to carry out an evaluation rather than after five years? Is it possible to carry out an interim evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u41	I keep keeping the dialogue open all the time, because we're talking about vulnerable Dutch people here. That is why I am doing the introduction test and I am also looking at how effective enforcement and supervision are. The rule in this Chamber is to evaluate a bill after five years. I wasn't cast into concrete, and neither was this rule. If, as a result of the introduction test, I receive signals that there is a need for an earlier evaluation, then I will do so explicitly. We take the societal signal seriously and weigh that: what did we intend to do with the bill and the bill actually complies with it in society? Measuring is knowing, I was once taught. Then I come to the position of bailiffs, I really have to say: bailiffs. They are only excluded from the registration requirement in this law. The requirements that will apply to collection service providers under this law will also apply to them. They have their own supervisor for that: the Financial Supervision Office. That looks very closely at that. Then a question from the SP: why doesn't the law apply when companies collect themselves? And what means does the injured party have? The scope of the law is limited to parties collecting for a third party. To keep the register clear and accessible, only collection agencies are covered. It is impossible for me to do so because I also have to keep an eye on the feasibility of checking all possible creditors in advance. Creditors who collect their own claims usually have a contractual relationship with the debtor. On the basis of reasonableness and fairness, they may therefore be required to comply with the quality requirements of this legislative proposal. This is actually the result of Articles 6 and 248 of the Civil Code, which I refer to as well as Article 6 (2) of the Civil Code: the general provision on reasonableness and fairness. I hope I will be forgiven for not doing it in Latin now; there are too many lawyers in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u42	We're not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u44	Next time we'll do it in Latin, won't we, Mr. Ellian?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u45	Although I still belong to the dying breed of gymnastics: no, just in Dutch. This does raise a question of control for me. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he has just said that the private creditor, who himself takes charge of a money claim, is also bound by the demands of this bill by the additional functioning of reasonableness and fairness? That would be a rather extensive interpretation of this bill, and quite far-reaching, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u46	No, I didn't explain that correctly. I will then entrust the paper to you and send it to you as you see it. That's a commitment, Mr. Chairman. I explained the evaluation, so did the bailiffs. Mr. Chairman. I now come after the scope of supervision and enforcement. The comment has been made that the supervision rests with several parties. Many of you have spoken out on this matter. In particular, the argument has been asked: why the Justice and Security Inspectorate? A few of you asked me if there was any financial argument behind that. Let me say first of all that I deliberately had this discussion with the NSA. The NSA has informed me that she does not understand the argument. I have indicated to them that I think it is important that we allow this argument to be as clear and transparent as possible, just as you have heard me say in this debate that I want to put their knowledge and skills firmly into the follow-up process and in the further development of quality standards. But I fully support the choice for the Justice and Security Inspectorate for a number of different reasons. First of all, I have seen in practice how the inspection takes up its task of implementing this law on enforcement. They have attracted experienced and qualified staff, but also, in terms of content, much more important, they have experience with different types of supervision. That is a substantive reason. I have also seen the cooperation between registry holder Justis and the inspection JenV, who will also supervise the collection agencies that are in the register. Prior to choosing a supervisor, I have included several criteria. For example, I came out with the ACM. Eventually, there was a choice between the Financial Supervision Office and the inspection. This choice made it increasingly clear that the task in the legislative proposal did not naturally belong directly to anyone. The balance between the Financial Supervision Office and the inspection was made on the basis of a number of criteria. I've been looking at the type of surveillance. I have looked at where the organization stands and what the absorption capacity of the organisation itself is, but I have also looked at the finances, whether the task fits and whether the task can be handled. The Financial Supervision Office oversees, among other things, the bailiffs and notaries, including money laundering and money in criminal circuits. Unlike collection agencies, bailiffs under this bill have no obligation to register; I have said so before. We also see the patchwork of supervisors in the collection market when choosing the Financial Supervision Office. After all, this bill that is on the table, I am also doing so on behalf of EZK and SZW. So you can see that organisations such as the ACM and the AFM as well as the blankets of the order of lawyers are involved. That's absolutely true. That is why I have established by law that a cooperation protocol should be drawn up between the various supervisors. Cooperation agreements are also aimed at ensuring a proper alignment between supervisors on the issue of unambiguous interpretation of legal standards. The supervisors concerned are currently under the guidance of JenV to further develop and complete the first version of the cooperation protocol. I am aiming for it because it is necessary that, when the legislative proposal is completed and published, the cooperation proposal is part of it. So I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u47	A question from Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u48	That depends on whether the minister is done with the head of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u49	No, definitely not. It was asked: if you paid to an unregistered agency, you do not have to pay again, but is it not much more important that unregistered agencies are dealt with? I fully agree with this view. Unregistered agencies need to be addressed. I believe that the proposal provides for this. An infringement of the prohibition on carrying out collection activities without registration is a criminal offence under the Economic Crimes Act. Administrative action may also be taken against a collection service provider who carries out activities without registration. The person concerned may be subject to a penalty payment requiring the Agency to terminate his duties, unless he or she still provides for a registration. I have been asked whether I see a danger of existence for pitters who cannot pay the supervisory costs. What did we do? We deliberately commissioned a market research to understand how the costs can be borne by the market. I have recently received these insights and we are going to work out a general measure of governance. Let me be clear: I certainly look at the carrying capacity of single-pitters. The system relies heavily on reports. The question was: how do we ensure that debtors find their way to a supervisor? I can report that the ACM has such a system, called ConsuWijzer. That will be a guide, a tool in this. What is the division of roles between supervisors: the blanket, the Financial Supervision Office and the inspection? The Christian Union asked if a blanket could initiate an investigation without having to be inserted. It was also asked whether he already has an independent competence under the Law on Lawyers. In order to deal with the possible complexity of multi-party supervision, I have just talked about the cooperation protocol. They make agreements on everyone's tasks and powers. I am concerned with effective, effective and effective compliance with the law. For effective supervision, it is important that the competent supervisors cooperate with each other as well as with the registry holder. There is a need to coordinate, so that there can be a proper exchange of signals on the behaviour of collection service providers and there is a knowledge of when. This will also facilitate the effective and targeted performance of the tasks assigned to them by the supervisors concerned, their complementarity with each other and their ability to reinforce each other wherever possible. As regards the monitoring of the conduct of operators and/or providers of collection activities, the inspection will be the first step as a specific supervisor under this legislative proposal. With regard to the bailiffs and lawyers, I referred to the Financial Supervision Office and the local blanket as the first appointed supervisor. It goes without saying that there will be a privacy check for the cooperation protocol to be drawn up. I'm sorry, but I still have some questions about the oversight that I'm going to deal with right now. What is our expectation of supervision itself? Is once every three years enough? If we really want to improve quality, should we not invest? They asked how we could strengthen surveillance. I just indicated that the JenV inspection will monitor from a combination of periodic physical inspection and remote risk-controlled surveillance. The time and frequency required to perform regular screenings depends on different aspects. Think of the organisation of business processes, the extent to which the company actively cooperates with the research and the information already known. Almost all supervisors operate on the basis of risk-driven supervision. Regular screenings could be part of that. The range of frequency of such regular screenings among other supervisors is very large. Let me be clear: the frequency is determined on the basis of the risk of non-compliance and its consequences. This will also be addressed in the assessment of the effectiveness of monitoring. This is done with the introduction test referred to above, which will take place in one year's time. Mr. Chairman, so much for surveillance and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u50	For me and several colleagues, this was one of the most fundamental points, namely: is supervision effectively organised in this way? I must tell you quite frankly that I do feel that it is very fragmented. The Minister says it is remote surveillance and many forms of supervision are risk-driven. That's not true, because as my colleague Ceder just recalled, if you got a complaint as a lawyer, you knew you had a serious problem. And that is a good thing, because that is exactly the essence of disciplinary law. The same goes for the bailiff. But that right of disciplinary action is not in the hands of the collection agencies. That's remote surveillance. Then signals and reports, in any way, must come in there. It is very doubtful whether this guarantees the quality that we want to achieve with each other here. I have to tell you, the answer doesn't convince me. I would therefore ask the Minister once again to explain why he thinks that in this case distance surveillance would be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u51	This is an issue facing society. The relationship with debt issues has rightly been established. I see that relationship, and I also realize that you have to follow debt collection agencies with care. You hear me say: remote surveillance. You can expect me to make it clear to the sector itself, in the cooperation agreements that are made as such and in the quality requirements that I set, that they will be removed from the register if they do not meet these quality requirements. The supervisor expects this minister to do their utmost to ensure that this law succeeds and to implement it will certainly give their utmost in the first few years, to do their utmost to be on top of the file. If I promised you that I would check all the collection agencies and follow her finely, I would jog, and I can't do that to this room. I expect an extreme effort to make this law work. Monitoring and enforcement are an essential part of this. I'll see to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u52	I would not challenge a single minister to cheat, because that would certainly lead to constitutional problems in this house. But also this answer... Look, what matters is that private debtor who finds himself in a situation where he or she thinks: this behaviour of a collection agency should not be possible, given the quality requirements. In the case of a lawyer or bailiff you have a direct point of contact. As Mr Ceder also recalled, the court can also intervene. Others can also intervene and say: this behavior cannot be. Then there'll be a complaint. But when we talk about quality assurance, where should the person affected go in this whole bill? There's nowhere to go. Yeah, to the inspection. But the inspection doesn't deal with that individual complaint. That worries me. Can the Minister at least take that care away, other than saying: the inspection is going to be on top of it? But that's still remote surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u53	Let me say first of all that I hear the concern and that I see the accommodating faces of the Members of Parliament present. I'm going to listen to the Chamber carefully and see how I can adjust it. I will inform you in writing to show you that. This is how I try to facilitate and serve this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'll see if I've run out of questions. "Supervision and enforcement" was, I think, my last cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u54	I thought we could go to the second term. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u55	Mr President, that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u56	Is there a need for a second term? You don't have to. Suspended? You want to think about your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u57	It's such an important subject. I would like to suspend for five minutes to discuss whether a second term is needed and, if so, what I am going to say and do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u58	Very good. I'll suspend for five minutes. And don't hesitate to waive a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr President, discussions have taken place. We would like a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u61	I'll give in to that. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kat. We have all the time in the world. Besides, it's nice to listen to someone who hasn't been a lawyer. That's a bit of diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u62	But I am a lawyer, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the comprehensive answer to all our questions. He also gave a reflection on very important political questions, for which he thanked. It's very good for me, too. A number of good commitments have been made, which I, as a D66 man, can continue with. I would still like to receive one promise. That's the next one. It concerns VAT and legal persons, in order to extend the quality requirements to collection services to legal persons. I would like an undertaking from the Minister that he would be able to explore the possibilities and the advantages and disadvantages thereof, perhaps with a written response. That's one. Then I've been thinking with my fellow parties. We'd like to file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cost of collection for a debtor can be rapidly increased when several collection agencies report in;]] [[Whereas, in the case of a multitude of different creditors, debtors may soon lose sight of the situation;]] [[Considers that collection service providers can play a role in reducing costs and creating the overview;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up the proposal for the registered debt regime and send it to the Chamber before the end of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the monitoring of collection services relies heavily on notifications from people affected by collection agencies;]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal does not provide sufficient evidence of how and when debtors can report complaints;]] [[considers that only an internal complaint procedure with the collection agency is insufficient to reveal the problems of debtors;]] [[calls on the government to work out how debtors with complaints can easily and with an independent party and how this can be taken into account in monitoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35733-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35733-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u63	Then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the VAT costs incurred in reselling claims are borne by the debtor;]] [[Whereas the debtor himself has no influence on the given whether or not his debt is resold;]] [[considers that the choice of the creditor to sell a claim should not result in additional charges being charged to the debtor;]] [[calls on the Government, in the case of claims sold, to allow the VAT storage for collection costs and the VAT storage for the tariffs for official acts to apply only where the original creditor is not liable to VAT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kat and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35733-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you. Mr Ellian from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I would like to see the commitment I have just received more concretely, because it concerns the framework of enhanced supervision. Can we expect the letter before the vote? That is essential for the debate we are having. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the AMvB and the cooperation protocol. My question is whether it can pass by the Chamber via a veil, so that we can really find something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u67	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Ceder of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I support the VVD's request to see the AMvB by means of a veil. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that interest may be claimed on outstanding claims;]] [[Whereas these amounts of interest may become unfairly high and in some cases even higher than the initial claim;]] [[Whereas the current legislation does not limit this and that it allows people to enter a debt marsh that they cannot reasonably come out of;]] [[calls on the Government to take action on how to maximise the interest to be recovered in the case of consumer debts and prevent the sale of debt as a earning model, and to submit a proposal to the Court for the summer recess;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that legislation on out-of-court collection services is being reviewed;]] [[Whereas the law on collection costs (WIK) is not reviewed;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the law on collection costs (WIK), to involve civil society organisations dealing with current practice in detail, to assess to what extent this law meets the requirements of socially responsible collection, and to report its results to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Cedar and Mr Kat.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35733-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Cedar and Mr Kat.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35733-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u69	The motion does not say that we would like to have it before the summer recess, but that is the thinking behind it. One more question. As indicated above, I still find the law to be quite comprehensive. I would like to see the content. But we have also asked a question about a broader discussion, namely about bailiffs. I wonder if the minister's already on it. Would he like to explore to what extent the funding system around bailiffs is still adequate at the moment? Does he also want to consult the bailiffs? I don't think this has anything to do with the bill. But if we look at the broader question, it's connected. This is: how can we ensure a healthy service around collections, but also around other bailiffs? How can we take a good look at that? I also believe that, as a Chamber and as a government, we have an obligation to the bailiffs to make the necessary adjustments where necessary. Thank you. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u70	Very good. That is the second and final term of the Chamber. We're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr President, you want to keep the process going. That's why I didn't ask you for a suspension. I'm going to do my utmost to answer the questions that have been asked. Let me begin with the commitment that Mrs Kat is asking for. It asks to be as clear as possible to investigate how vulnerable legal entities can also be protected against malicious collection practices. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna pick that up. I'm not gonna beat around the bush: I'm just gonna pick that up. I note that this is important for you, for the Chamber and for the Netherlands. Then I'll pick that up. On the motion in part No. 9 by Mrs Kat and Mr Ceder, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. That's a motion to record the debt settlement. I'll leave it to the Court to decide. The motion in part No. 10 on the debt hotline gets judgment Chamber. I have already indicated in my introduction that I am referring to the motion in part No. 11 in relation to VAT. Then there was a request from Mr Ellian, namely: can you inform us by showing us the AMvB and the cooperation agreement before the vote? Did I get that correctly? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u72	No, the AMvB and the cooperation protocol through a front-end procedure. You said in my direction that you would send another letter about enhanced surveillance. That enhanced supervision is essential for me. When can I expect that letter? Is that gonna work for the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u73	My letter on enhanced surveillance is going to be sent to you before the vote. The one about the letter. Mr Ellian's question was then dealt with. Then I have an x-number of motions. There's a motion from the Christian Union. I shall leave Mr Ceder's first motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u74	What number is that? Is that the motion in part No. Mr. Ceder's 12?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u75	That is indeed the motion in part No. 12 by Mr Ceder. That was the motion on maximizing interest and reselling debt as a earning model. That motion will be judged by Chamber. Then you have in the motion in part No. 13 a comment on the evaluation of the WIK. I'm going to dissuade that motion anyway. I think it's premature. That has everything to do with the fact that Minister Schouten is still coming to the Chamber with plans. Elements of this I am also strongly involved in the evaluation, so my proposal would be to do first things first and not to go too fast. That's why I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u76	That's the motion in part No. 13 by Mr Ceder. He is very pleased about that. One second, Mr Ceder has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'm trying to figure out a way to get out of here with the Ministry. I think we're trying to achieve the same thing. Would it be an idea to carry out this motion only after the letter? I can imagine that there are elements in it that are useful or perhaps the preparatory work has already been done. I'm just gonna make a suggestion and maybe we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u78	I always appreciate any constructive movement in our direction, but perhaps the Member of Parliament can indicate more clearly how he sees the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u79	There's a broader evaluation coming from your colleague Schouten. In my opinion it does not see directly on the WIK, although there might be elements of it; I can imagine that. My suggestion is to wait for the evaluation I don't know exactly when it will come and then with the input that is already there to look at the WIK just as closely. From this point of view, Mrs Schouten's evaluation might have been sufficient, but it could also be seen that there are additional points that need to be evaluated after the evaluation of Mrs Schouten, who does not necessarily see the WIK. I think we'll achieve what we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u80	I hear the diligence that the Member of Parliament Ceder actually indicates, where we see first and then determine how to proceed. In my opinion, that is a very sober and logical way of working together. So if that's the way you point it out, I'd like to look forward to your action, and I'll embrace it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u81	If the motion is to be amended, I would ask Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u82	Well, Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna have to take the motion. If it can be explained in such a way that the approach is correct and we understand with each other that the motion is not carried out until after the evaluation, which may also mean that there is no need for additional evaluation; that may also be a result, then I think the motion should have Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u83	That's a nice advice, but if I'm listening carefully, you actually need a modified motion. You are going to say: we have to wait a little while and then we are going to carry out this motion. That goes a little further than an interpretation of a motion. That's just a new content. Then we'd have a new one, or... modified motion to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u84	I'd be happy to change it, if you don't mind. Then it finds out that "the government requests to evaluate the law on collection costs" is in brackets: after the evaluation of the SZW Ministry is in...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u85	Close the hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u86	Close the hook. And then it goes on to "here with civil society organisations" and so on. I'd like to add it, but if we all understand this and stand on it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u87	I am never much in favour of cow-trading on motions, but the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u88	I think it makes more sense to hold that motion for a moment. Make sure that letter is there and then decide your action. That would be my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u89	So your advice is to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u90	Exactly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u91	That is a request to Mr Ceder. He's the only one who's gonna talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u92	I'm gonna think about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u93	Yes. There are now several possibilities: to put the motion to the vote as it is now, to amend the motion by brackets "afterdat et cetera," or to continue the motion. So it's getting unnecessarily complicated right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u94	I'm adjusting the motion. Then I would like to think about whether it should be stopped, because it might be good if the Chamber could give its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u95	In any case, we shall be looking forward to an amended motion. So there's going to be an amended motion on part No. 13. And what is the Minister's opinion on this modified motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u96	I like to be very clear. I think the motion would be somewhat premature. Anyway, the Member of Parliament is talking about it, as you rightly point out. I would like to advise the motion itself at this time because I think the motion is premature, and that is not intended to go to the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u97	Then the motion just continues to dissuade. Clear, we've got something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman, if I may continue? There was another question from Mr Ceder about the funding of bailiffs. We are holding themed tables, and I would also like to take with me the funding of the bailiffs. That is also where this is part of the discussion. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u99	There's one unanswered question I have. Happens. It was about the suspension procedure, the AMvB and the cooperation protocol. Are you gonna do that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u100	Is that what the Minister's gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u101	I have been pointed out that this is not, or should not be, procedurally possible. I don't know if that's right, because I'm parroting now, and I always want to give the Chamber all the information as transparently as possible. So I am struggling with this because I do not know the procedure of this Chamber optimally at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u102	It's okay. It's okay. A front for an AMvB can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u103	I hear your words and I want to inform the Chamber, so I'm going to do my utmost to make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u104	Fine. It's appreciated. I'm still seeing Mrs. Kat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u105	Thanks for the appreciation. I'm gonna try to get to the minister anyway. The motion on VAT storage is currently not recommended. Could the Minister perhaps come up with an investigation to see to what extent we could do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u106	That's the motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u107	Because then I'm gonna hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u108	I'm gonna check that out. I'm picking up the investigation. I understand that then the MP Kat will hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u109	Then the motion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u110	That's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u111	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u112	Thank you to the Minister for his presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-10.u113	On Tuesday we will vote on the law and on the motions. Thanks again to the Minister for his presence. I shall suspend until 7 p.m., then the next debate will be on the list.
