ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u1	The next item is the joint debate on legislative proposals 36143, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Defence for the year 2022, 36144, Amendment of the budget statement of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund for the year 2022, 36120-X, Amendment of the budget statements of the Ministry of Defence for the year 2022 and 36120-K, Amendment of the budget statement of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a long debate yesterday on CETA, we are today discussing the amended Defence budget to speed up the acquisition of additional F-35 and Reaperdrones. Several issues, however, have in common that are decided on in the context of international instability and a terrible war on the European continent. This has already convinced our party that additional investments in defence are necessary to keep our country and the EU safe. That is why a great deal of extra money has been allocated to finance these investments. The recently published Defence Paper makes proposals to guide these investments. The purchase of the six additional F-35 and the four Reaperdrones fits in the line of the Defence Note. But we have to decide very quickly. This summer the orders have to be placed, otherwise we understand that the Netherlands will be at the back of the queue, which will result in years of loss of time and probably also additional costs. Our group can, because of the geopolitical situation, justify rushing orders, but still has a number of questions. Following the Defence Note, the new Strategic Concept was adopted very recently at the NATO Summit in Madrid, which was dramatically different from the old one of 12 years ago, where, for example, Russia is a partner of NATO. But, so I ask the government, if the Strategic Concept has changed so much, how does the further expansion of the F-35 arsenal fit in? The purchase of the F-35, then called JSF, was decided in the same years as that in which the old Strategic Concept was drawn up. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State explain how the extension to three squadrons F-35 fits in with the new NATO strategy? As far as the Reaperdrones are concerned, they are unmanned aircraft, intended to collect crucial data. Can the government confirm that this is indeed about data collection, and therefore information-driven action by the drones? At the end of last year, the International Affairs Advisory Council published a report on autonomous weapons systems. In it, the Advisory Council rejects fully autonomous weapons. There must always be human control at stake. The drones we are talking about today have no weapons, let alone are autonomous. But can the government confirm that the order now, of these four drones, in no way precedes the decision at a later stage to supply these drones with weapons or not? Mr. Chairman. The Defence Memorandum and the Strategic Compass of the European Union write much about the need for European cooperation, including in the purchase of military equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u4	I see there's been an interruption from Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u5	It is a good question from Mr Koole to the Minister about the armament of those Reaperdrones who are now being purchased, those extra Reaperdrones. But the Defence Note actually states quite clearly that Defense will invest in Reaperdrone's armament. Period. That's just an announcement of policy. Can we not assume that, even though that decision will be formalized later, if this purchase continues, the intention is to arm those drones as well? And if so, how does the PvdA Group look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u6	The Defence Note is a policy intention. It still has to be done by both Chambers and we have to see whether that intention is also shared by the Chambers or perhaps will be changed on a number of points. My question also arises from this, because I know that the intention exists. But I do not want it to be said later that if we now agree to order those four extra drones, then you have also given permission to armament. I think that discussion will come later. I ask the government that the decision on the purchase of those drones is not prejudicing that decision in any way whatsoever now, for it is the intention in the Defence Note, but it still has to be decided later on the weapons of the drones. We have reservations about arms. We're against unmanned autonomous weapons. If it works that way, we will really resist it. Armament will then depend on the conditions, but we will then look forward to the proposal at that time. But I do not think that we have taken a first step with this. We only purchase the drones for data collection, in my opinion, and I think the question to the government is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u7	That question is clear and I share it with Mr Koole. By the way, armed drones aren't autonomous weapons, because there's a pilot somewhere a thousand miles away with a joystick. I will deal with it in my own term, but that also raises great ethical questions as far as my group is concerned. I was wondering what the PvdA Group's position was, but I understand that this process is still going on and that you do not yet have a position on it, but you have hesitations. Is that a good summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u8	We have hesitations anyway. Since I say that we should not refer for a preliminary ruling, I do not have to say what I will do. I await the proposal; the conditions are listening closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u9	Please continue your argument, Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Defence Memorandum and the Strategic Compass of the European Union contain a great deal of information on the need for European cooperation, including in the purchase of military equipment. Although the six F-35s that the government now wants to order are made in Italy, they come from American factories. This is a lot of money, which records the use of a particular type of aircraft for a longer period of time. Can the government therefore explain how this acquisition relates to the aforementioned need for European cooperation in the purchase of military equipment? Has this been discussed with the other Member States of the European Union? Finally, Mr President. The PvdA supports the increase in the Defence budget and also the present proposal for a rapid decision on the F-35 and the Reaperdrones. However, despite the need for this in international circumstances, the PvdA Group believes that the ultimate objective of arms control and non-proliferation should not be overlooked. Does the government agree with this? When can this Chamber of Government look forward to a new view of international arms control and non-proliferation which takes account of the dramatically altered geopolitical situation while maintaining the objective of arms control? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr Koole. The floor is now for Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP. I understand you also speak for the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. That's correct. It is heartfelt that I also speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for the Animals. Today we are talking about several supplementary defence budgets which, if adopted by this Chamber, will lead to a substantial increase in our military expenditure. A large majority of the House of Representatives at least supports this. The sentiment that we must now quickly increase our military expenditure is somewhere to be understood, because there is an unprecedented war in Europe. An attack and conquest war that blatantly violates the most fundamental standards of international law and has caused a great deal of death and destruction. Putin's unprecedented imperialist aggression still kills hundreds of people every day. However, the sentiment is understandable that, according to our political groups, we need to equip ourselves more quickly to defend democracy. At least it is not based on a sober analysis of the facts. It wrongly ignores the great risks to our security that such a huge leap, eventually a structural increase of 5 billion a year, entails in our military spending. Of the total of 2 trillion dollars, or 2,000 billion dollars, spent annually by the world on defence, NATO is responsible for 1.1 trillion. The European part of NATO alone spends about four times as much on defence as, for example, Russia. Russia's economy is the size of that of the Benelux. Furthermore, almost all NATO countries have substantially increased their defence expenditure since 2014. What does the Minister actually think of these figures? Does she think it is irrelevant, or does she have an opinion on it? I'd like a response. Nor is the Russian army that impressive; after four months of war that much has turned out to be so. It takes Russia the greatest effort to conquer a relatively small part of Ukraine, the Donbas. Conquering the entire Ukraine and subjects, as was the original plan, Putin has long given up. This does not mean that there is no threat to the rest of Europe of Russia's unprecedented aggression against Ukraine. It is precisely Russia's relative economic and conventional military weakness combined with the fact that it is a massive nuclear power, which poses a threat and the risk of an even greater and much more devastating war. It is also because of weakness that Russia has now fallen back on this most primitive form of foreign policy, a territorial conquest war that we actually thought we had left behind by the twentieth century.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u13	Mr Van Apeldoorn began by saying that a good analysis must first be made when it comes to investing in our armed forces. But what does his group think of the fact that a general analysis has already been made last year that, as far as the state of equipment, personnel and readiness is concerned, the defence industry has actually fallen pretty badly through the ice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u14	My group does not share this analysis in its entirety. Let me put it this way. I will come back to that in my speech. My group recognizes the need for certain investments in the defence sector, and I believe that the Group of the Party of Animals does. I am now getting ahead of my speech, but there are a number of areas where there are delays in maintenance. However, the question is whether this would justify a structural increase of 3 billion and now 5 billion. You can only answer that question if you ask the question: what kind of army do we really want? What's that army for, and what does it have to be equipped for? What do we want to participate in, for example, when it comes to the highest spectrum of violence and not to what? I believe that our analysis and our views differ from those laid down, for example, in the Defence Memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u15	I also think that these opinions differ greatly, but I am glad that Mr Van Apeldoorn at least recognizes that a number of investments are urgently needed to bring our equipment to level, but also to bring the kind of armaments to the level that is urgently needed at present. You need new, modern equipment for that. We've actually forgot that in recent years, is my opinion. But I would like to hear how you are going to further underpin that in the rest of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u16	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u17	Yes. Then it will become clear that we are not entirely in agreement, I say to Mr Arbouw. The threat is real, but the answer is not to arm us to the teeth. Of course, we must be able to defend the NATO territory, but according to the SP and Animal Party groups we are also able to defend the current level of our defence spending, especially if we reprioritise and stop spending money on expensive and even counterproductive missions and interventions such as in Afghanistan, and also if European NATO countries are to cooperate more, for example to avoid unnecessary duplication. Can the Minister respond to this? Because in the Defence Note, I'm missing the justification why we should do so much more. Sure, there's a lot of late maintenance on parts. I say that to Mr Arbouw, but I have just said that. The state of our army and the equipment can be improved. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that a substantial investment in improving the working conditions of our men and women in the army should also be made. It's being done now. There is certainly a catch-up to this. But this does not require an increase of structural 3 billion per year, let alone 5 billion. Mr President, then there are the risks. I was just talking about that. The big risk is, of course, the following. While NATO, which already spends so much more than any other country that is seen as an opponent or challenger, is going to spend even more, the risk is that these countries will do the same, not to be left behind and otherwise the military balance of power will be completely lost. Then you will have an arms race which will benefit the arms industry in particular, but which will certainly not increase our security. Can the Minister respond to that? Does she see that risk, and if she doesn't, why not? Mr. Chairman. In my field, this is called the safety dilemma. What you do as a country to increase your own security can increase the insecurity of other countries, which react to it by further arming themselves. There is another reaction to that, and so on. As a result, the world as a whole is deteriorating in safety. That means that international security will be reduced. I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Does she see this potential risk with us? If not, why not? Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment specifically on the incidental supplementary budget which is intended to speed up the purchase of new defence equipment already announced in the Defence Note. It's war in Europe. But that does not mean that we have to take decisions in a careless, hasty way, which are probably also unwise. That is what, according to the groups of the SP and the Party for Animals, is here. I am not careful to start with this because we are now in a situation as the First Chamber in which we have to decide on a legislative proposal that came our way only a week ago. There has been no time for any written preparation. And this is not a small matter, it is an issue of EUR 1.1 billion for new weapons: six F-35s, formerly called JSF, and four so-called Reaperdrones. Normally such a large expenditure would be announced long in advance as part of the normal budgetary process, and not through an incidental supplementary budget. This is highly unusual in such an issue and, as far as my group is concerned, it is also undesirable. The Minister may say, as I have heard her do in the House of Representatives, that Parliament's budget law is respected in this way too, but although this may be true in a formal sense, the exercise of budget law is, in fact, rather flawed in this way. Can the Minister respond to that? My group deeply regrets the lack of democratic care. Careless, hasty and, as I said, unwise from our point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u18	I understand the considerations of the SP. Of course, it all has to be in fast-track. But I believe that the government has also given some arguments as to why this should be done so quickly. You're not saying anything about that. So would you like to reflect on that again? How do you look at that? My supplementary question to that is the following. The most efficient way of ordering this equipment, I think, is by this way. I do not think you, as the SP Group, are in favour of the waste of social money either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u19	Thank you. The latter is certainly correct. However, the problem is this. The government is giving a number of arguments why we should do it now, accelerated. Otherwise we close in the back of the line; then we miss the boat, the costs rise and it becomes more expensive. First of all, my group did not even have the opportunity to consider these arguments properly, because we were told this last week. Secondly, the first and fundamental question is, of course, whether we want this purchase. Do we even want to buy that new equipment? I'm about to say something about that. And if we have any doubts about that, then those arguments will also be in a different light. That is the problem for our groups. The SP and the Party for Animals have always been against the billion-dollar JSF project with other parties, such as GroenLinks. Now GroenLinks is likely to be the case in the House of Representatives, but we will see how we are going to agree to the purchase of a new shipment of JSF bombers, together with the original opponents PvdA and D66, who then turned. Together they now make it possible for the Netherlands to rush a lot of taxpayers' money and, in our opinion, to put it into this weaponry. We would much rather invest in diplomacy, an area in which the Netherlands has a name to uphold. Then the proposed purchase of the Reaperdrones. Those drones, unmanned aircraft, they can also be armed. In fact, on page 28 of the recently published Defence Note I referred to it just now, we read that Defence is going to invest in the armament of these unmanned aircraft. That decision has yet to be made. It's a policy idea, and it's got to go through the two chambers. However, I would like to point out here that this is not the path that the SP and Party groups want to take for the Animals. Then where could the cabinet deploy those armed drones? In so-called missions to uphold the international legal order, i.e. military interventions that often achieve the opposite and violate international law, including the law of war and humanitarian law of war? We all know what the Americans who have used Reaperdrones for in recent years, namely as a weapon in the so-called war against terror; a war in violation of international law that has fueled terrorism rather than fought it. We also know how much the civilian population of countries such as Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia and in particular Pakistan have been affected by the deployment of armed drones. In a report based on extensive scientific research, Living Under Drones, of an American collective of lawyers specialized in international humanitarian law and human rights from 2012, already ten years ago, these experts claim that the American drone war in Northwest Pakistan caused gross violations of international humanitarian law. They also show that this form of counter-terrorism itself was perceived for the population as a form of daily terror: daily terror because people lived in constant fear of the so-called Hellfire missiles equipped with those drones, which in so many cases did not encounter terrorist suspects, but innocent men, women and children. If we had had the time to prepare properly, I would have asked the Minister if she was familiar with this report. I strongly recommend that she take note of this. Of course, the weapon does not fully determine its use, but the question is what the government would want to use these Reaperdrones for if they were to be armed in the future. At least that's the government's policy idea. Can the government exclude that they will ever be deployed by the Netherlands in this way, with so much so-called collateral damage, a rather terrible euphemism for bombing unarmed civilians? Is there not the risk that such collateral damage could occur quickly in the use of these weapons even faster than in the deployment of manned aircraft? Can the Minister comment on that? There are studies that indicate that the threshold for drone deployment is lower than that of a manned equivalent. In military circles, it's called being an advantage, because you can kill at a distance without risking being killed yourself. So you can use very local violence more quickly in a high spectrum without risking the lives of our women and men. Is that how the Minister sees it? Does she see this as an advantage? Or does she, with my group, think it is above all a risk that the threshold for using this kind of violence, even during so-called peacekeeping missions, will only be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u20	I have a question for Mr Van Apeldoorn. You referred to page 28 of the Defence Note. The same Defence Note actually explains quite clearly what those MQ-9-drones are used for. It is intended as a capacity for maritime intelligence, surveillance and, above all, to collect high-quality information. You made very different equations. What exactly are you basing that on? I'm actually looking at the purpose of the deployment of these drones. So it's about security and data collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u21	Thank you for this question. I'm basing it on what's on page 28. It says, "Defense is going to invest in the armament of these drones." So these drones are meant to collect intelligence on the one hand. Its capacity needs to be increased, according to the government. My group also has doubts about this. On the other hand, there is also the commitment to arm these drones. That's what I'm asking the Minister. For the intelligence, you don't need the Hellfire missiles. That's my point. Because, if I may pursue my argument, that's what we're talking about with armed drones. We are talking about pilots who, for example, in the American case, are sitting in the desert in Nevada and there every day behind a screen with some sort of joystick disabling people, killing at the touch of the button of the joystick at thousands of kilometres away. Is that what I, too, like the Netherlands, want, I ask the Minister. Even if only armed warriors are eliminated and no innocent civilians killed, this raises all kinds of ethical questions. Does the Minister recognize that, the big ethical questions that are on the table here? In summary. The groups of the SP and the Party for Animals consider our ability to defend the NATO territory to be important. Unfortunately, in recent years, NATO has focused on very different issues, such as the so-called 'war on terror'. There is certainly no need to raise the defence budget by billions to defend our territory. In fact, it also brings with it great risks, such as a new arms race and less security for all of us. We can better focus on new arms control and disarmament agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u22	Mr Van Apeldoorn said at the beginning of his speech, he reiterated that he felt that this structural increase was not necessary, but at the beginning he also asked the government for a comprehensive plan, a note, to justify it. That plan must be there, of course. That justification must be provided, but if Mr Van Apeldoorn already knows that it is not necessary, he must of course have a plan on which that is based. Why are you so sure it's not necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u23	I have already said that certain investments are needed: late maintenance, improved working conditions. Why we say that it is not necessary is because I think that if you look at the capacity of NATO as a whole to defend the NATO area there should not be many doubts about that at all. If you look at what is happening in Ukraine now, is it unthinkable that Putin will successfully invade NATO and conquer a large part of NATO? We have the power to deter this, and should that happen, I think that is a very small opportunity, but I do think that we should be ready to do so; Article 5 is also important to my party, and I think that we can defend that territory. Then you can ask specific questions about the Baltic States and so on. I would be happy to enter into that discussion, which is a little out of order, but you don't need 5 billion more structuralally a year for that. But my main question is this. If you just look at how much NATO spends on defence, even compared to Russia and China, and also when you add Russia and China together, you see that NATO spends a lot more on defence. Russia and China, in particular China, have also increased their defence spending in recent years. Now we are going to increase the defence budget again and not just us, but also Germany and France. America has a huge defence budget of 800 billion dollars a year. The Chinese won't sit still. They've just built a new carrier. They're going to respond to that, of course. So you're gonna get that safety dilemma. So you get the dynamic of a new arms race. I think that there is far too little thought here in the Netherlands and I do not see any reflection on this in the Defence Note, for example. That is at the heart of my criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u24	I hear all these last points, and I understand that at some point there is a need for further consideration of the nature and amount of defence expenditure. I am also waiting for a final justification for this structural increase. But then I would also like to ask Mr Van Apeldoorn that he also suspends his opinion that it is not necessary until all this is clear. I would also like to draw Mr Van Apeldoorn's attention to a second point. At the end of my speech, I asked the Minister for an opinion stating that there is a structural increase in defence expenditure, and that at the same time the government is not abandoning the aim of arms control. It should be in that view how you combine that. I assume that Mr Van Apeldoorn shares that question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u25	I certainly share Mr Koole's question to the Minister. Mr Koole asks me to suspend my opinion, that of my group and that of the Animal Party, on whether or not the defence budget is substantially increased. Well, I might be willing to. Let us then come back to this later in another debate. But then there is all the more reason not to vote for this accelerated edition now. So we still have to have this fundamental discussion on a number of questions. How big should the Dutch army be? Should we participate in the highest spectrum of violence? Yeah? No? Why is that, or why not? What are the tasks of the Dutch army other than defending the NATO territory? I do not see why we should now accelerate spending 1.1 billion on six F-35 aircraft and four Reaperdrones if we have not had the discussion on those questions, for example here in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u26	Mr. Koole is responding for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u27	Yes, for the third time, Mr. Chairman. The decision now before us is not about the total structural budget. The decision concerns the proposals before us. This will certainly involve large sums of money. But they are amounts that were not only in the Defence Note, but which had been announced before. It's actually perfecting the total plan for the F-35, so you get to three squadrons. That's in the Defence Note, but it was also announced earlier. So I do not see that this decision also sets out the structural increase, which is also advocated. Because we do need to have a further debate on this. Let's wait and see. We can then see whether the government's arguments are good or not, arguments to justify that structural increase. We can ask questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u28	I don't think there was a question in this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u29	But may I reply briefly, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u30	Yeah, but I'm suggesting that when we make statements, we don't make statements again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u31	No, I'm not gonna make a statement, but I'm gonna clear something up. Today's agenda includes not only the expenditure of 1.1 billion to six F-35 aircraft and to Reaperdrones through that incidental supplementary budget. The agenda also includes supplementary budgets from the Spring paper, which are indeed related to this structural increase to 5 billion. And that's what my text is about today. So in that sense, I have already started the discussion, which I think we should have more detailed, here too. And let me just say, for the record, the SP is not a party against the army. Nor do we categorically say that we would never want to increase the defence budget. But at the moment we say that, given the international situation and also the risks, we do not think that the 5 billion is necessary. We think that the 5 billion is not only not necessary, but also risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u32	It is good that Mr Van Apeldoorn stresses that again. I remember the time when the SP was fatal against NATO, so in that sense you have been moved in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u33	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u34	But you did go down very briefly when you said that NATO could secure its Convention Area. Because look in the Strategic Concept at what it takes. And look at the current geopolitical relations in the world, which Mr Van Apeldoorn knows all about. I have serious doubts about the security of the Convention Area. In fact, there is a capacity question from NATO. All countries are told what capacity is needed to carry out this task at all. There's just a shortage in that capacity. At the moment, we have no preponderance in the air on the eastern flank of our NATO Convention Area. And let's go back to the situation in the Netherlands. Perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn can read this week's Military Spectator again. When he reads it, he sees that according to the people themselves in the armed forces, the state of the armed forces is really at a very low level, and that we really need to invest a lot in order to be able to participate at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u35	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u36	I would like to make a slightly different point of view to Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr President. We also see, of course, changes in the role of the United States within NATO. It has really been said to the European countries: you need to take more responsibility, because the US is doing everything. From that point of view, do you not think that the European countries should take much more responsibility towards the future, because we do not know exactly how it is going to be to invest in their armed forces, including the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u37	I'll take the questions together. The Strategic Concept: there are many things in it that my group has difficulty with. However, I believe that NATO should remain a treaty organisation limited to the defence of the NATO territory, geographically restricted, and should not participate in international missions against terrorism or whatever; no foreign intervention. But we must also stay away from the conflict between the US and China, which is in danger of becoming a new cold war. That is not a NATO task. China is now seen as a challenger. We do not know exactly what that means, but as far as we are concerned, it does not mean that NATO must also invest in capacity to contain China. You have to take all that with you when it comes to how much more we need to invest in defence. I have just lost the question that Mr Arbouw is after...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u38	Well, the question was more about the European perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u39	Yeah, sorry. Thank you. Of course, I also have concerns about the US and what will happen in 2024. Maybe Trump will come back or some sort of trumpist. It could also mean the end of NATO, theoretically. Of course there are concerns about this, including in my group. What does that mean? I have just said that I am in favour, we are in favour, of further cooperation within Europe, not in the form of a European army, not in the form of supranational powers, but within NATO or within the EU more bilateral cooperation where it may be necessary to be more efficient. We certainly need to think about that; perhaps we have not done enough in recent years. So I am going a long way with Mr Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u40	A third time, Mr. Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u41	I asked: is it not logical from this point of view that the European countries should invest much more in their armed forces? Actually, you say, "Well, that's true." Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u42	I'm not saying that they need to invest more, but that they can work more together. If you work more together, you might also be able to reduce costs and maybe you'll have to invest relatively less and get more for less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u43	I suggest you continue your argument. You have 24 seconds, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's gonna work, because I was already at the end of my speech. In any case, the SP Group and the Party for Animals are against the accelerated spending of 1.1 billion in weapons that we do not think we need. Apart from that, we regret that we now have to do so with steam and boiling water and that there was no time at all for proper parliamentary treatment, which does not mean that I am looking forward to answering my questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mr Frentrop of the French Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good thing that after years of loss, the government wants to strengthen the Dutch military capacity again; better late than never. If you want peace, you must be prepared for war. A sufficiently strong military capacity is a matter of national importance, perhaps the most important national interest. However, there are organisations active in the Netherlands that oppose this. I am talking in particular about organisations that call on pension funds not to invest in companies that produce weapons. As an example, I would like to mention the annual Fair Pension Guide. This publication assesses the policy of the ten largest pension funds in the Netherlands on social issues every year, and one of these themes is whether the fund invests in the arms industry. Pension funds should not do that, the organisers of the Fair Pension Guide think. Then they don't give out enough. Mr. Chairman. A strong defense is in the national interest. Calling pension funds not to invest in defence then goes against the national interest. For the record, anyone in the Netherlands can appeal to matters that go against the national interest; anyone can criticize the government. My group supports the often used saying: I loathe what you say, but I will defend your right to say it with my life. In fact, you could say that it is the ultimate task of our armed forces to ensure that freedom of expression in the Netherlands is not restricted by foreign powers. Many of the organisations that call on pension funds to stay out of the arms industry, receive subsidies and other financial support from the government, mostly through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For the past 20 years, that didn't matter much: then the government also felt that you shouldn't invest in defence capabilities. But now such initiatives are contrary to public policy and to national interests. This raises purely in terms of efficiency questions as to whether it is wise for the government to use taxpayers' money to finance organisations that want to change government policy, as approved by parliament. Again, everyone is free to criticize government policy, and I am not talking about funding political parties. I am talking purely about private organisations, which have often started out as charitable organisations, but have become activists in many areas. Once again, they can pursue whatever they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u47	Mrs. Moonen has a question for Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u48	I have a question for Mr Frentrop. Is Mr Frentrop aware of the fact that the policy of pension funds is being defined in the board of the funds, in a dialogue between employers and employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u49	Yeah, I'm very familiar with that. I was allowed to sit on one of those boards myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u50	Then how is it that he makes statements about all kinds of organizations or the government? It is a balanced, balanced choice of the boards themselves that they invest in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u51	So I'm not talking about pension funds. I am talking about organisations that actively call on pension funds to change their investment policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u52	Finally. Organizations are allowed to call for anything. I would like to point out that in the end it is the boards. It is a consultation between employers and employees and between social partners. They determine the investment policy with each other in the boardroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u53	I would like to point out that I fully agree with Mrs Moonen. So I'm not interested in the administration of pension funds. I'm talking about organizations that, with government funding, call on pension fund administrations not to invest in Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u54	Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u55	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the funding of these private organizations should be found with equal votes. These organisations cannot claim money from people who have a different opinion through the tax authorities. Mr. Chairman. For a long time now, the government's defence policy has turned out well. We're going to invest heavily to sustain our military capabilities. I'm actually advocating flanking policy here. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should not use subsidies to hinder and hinder the Ministry of Defence. I therefore call for a halt to ongoing government expenditure that frustrates this new defence policy. You shouldn't gas at the same time and step on the brake, I'd say. That is why my question to the Minister is: is the Minister prepared to examine, together with her foreign minister, whether it would be desirable and possible to close the subsidy tap for non-governmental organisations pursuing objectives contrary to government policy? I look forward to the answer and consider a second-term motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Now we're gonna listen to Mr. Arbouw of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present bill allows the accelerated purchase of six F-35s, and thus a third squadron for the Netherlands, and four reconnaissance drones. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, this is a sensible choice, both for financial and operational reasons. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet has well-founded this, so it understands the speed that is now being exercised. Mr. Chairman. Breaking down a warrior can be very fast, but rebuilding it takes a lot of effort, energy, money and time. That is why it is very important to clearly determine how to get the Dutch armed forces back to the right level as soon as possible. As far as we are concerned, the present proposal is a good start and a sensible choice is made. Giving priority to the F-35 and the reconnaissance drones is also important, because these are capabilities that NATO needs very much. That's what they reported. This is in line with the new strategic concept, including the defence of the eastern border of the NATO area. Mr. Chairman. I am keeping a short story, but finally I would like to point out that the war in Ukraine is also teaching us lessons at the moment, namely that air dominance and firepower, such as the long-range artillery, the MLRS that we had, but now no longer have, the howitzers, of which we actually have only one department left, but certainly enough ammunition and good stock, a good information position and intelligence on the battlefield in this war are very important conditions. With this in mind and with the priorities set out by the leaders themselves in the Defence Memorandum, I would like to ask them whether they still see any possibilities, taking into account, of course, the capacity of the organisation, to make material purchases in other areas, perhaps earlier, in order to speed up the deployment of the armed forces. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u58	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm looking at the rulers. They say they want a suspension. Do you have 15 minutes? That's the case. I'll suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u59	The next item is the continuation of the joint examination of the budget state of the Ministry of Defence and the budget state of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund. I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many thanks also for the opportunity to speak here this morning about this incidental supplementary budget and the other points that your Chamber has raised. We realize that this is the last day for your room before the recess. I believe you also met yesterday, if I have followed the news a little bit. It is remarkable that we were allowed to arrive here at 08.30 a.m. on Tuesday morning. That's not commonplace. So much appreciation on the part of the cabinet that you have made this possible. I would like to thank the spokesmen who spoke this morning and asked questions. We will try to answer them as best we can. I shall begin with something that some of you have also started with, namely the naming that we live in a special time. It is particularly sad to see that there is a war in Ukraine, in Europe, and that the Russian Federation has carried out an illegal attack and is already in the fifth month of a devastating war. We don't actually see the beginning of an end. Many have left a mark at that time of February 24th. The German Bundeskanzler called it a Zeitenwende. People have spoken of a geopolitical wake-up call for Europe. But whatever it is, it's a historic turning point in history. I'm really convinced of that. In this context, the cabinet, we, the Secretary of State and I, have designed the Defence Note, in the knowledge that the coalition agreement had already decided to step up significantly in defence spending in the armed forces. But we have done a bit of work on that, because we are convinced that the Netherlands, Europe and NATO must invest in defence and have their armed forces in order. There are too many threats. The Russian Federation poses a real threat. I believe that you are speaking this afternoon about Sweden's and Finland's wish to join NATO. That's one of those markings, one of those signals how serious this is. Two countries I know well and who have always chosen to remain outside NATO's alliance are now keen to join. However, that is not what this debate is about, but I would like to mention it at the beginning of this debate. Much of what we are doing now, and also the decision that we are asking of you today, is a reflection of these geopolitical developments. Of course, we have looked in the Defence Paper to see how we can make Europe safer, make the Netherlands stronger and strengthen NATO and the EU. The accelerated implementation of the measures we are proposing today, the purchase of six additional F-35s, of four additional unmanned reconnaissance aircraft, the Reapers, is important. They were already in the Defence Note. The F-35s have been planning for a long time. Of course, we want to complete that third squadron. For operational and efficiency reasons, we are now proposing to the Parliament to move forward quickly, in the very short term, to acquire, to take steps and to open up the scope for this obligation. Both projects must take place this summer. That order must now be placed, for the reasons explained by the cabinet in the documents. That is what we are doing with this incidental supplementary budget, in full awareness that this is not normally the preferred route. We are very aware of the fact that Parliament prefers not to. During the debate on accountability, the Chamber expressed its dissatisfaction with budgetary processes which were messy. So it's not how you want it. I'd rather you didn't. At the same time, we have said in the assessment we have made: it is very important to be able to start these two investment projects in good time. The Chamber has a budget right and precisely to do justice to that, we have chosen this route so that the Chamber can give its opinion. They are projects that are part of the 5 billion extra and are announced in the Defence Note. Through the commitment budgets, we can put this into the right rhythm, so that we have sufficient commitment space available to make timely legal commitments and actually place orders. That is an introduction before I go into the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u61	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u62	The Minister now says that precisely in order to comply with Parliament's budget law, we have chosen this route. With respect, but then the minister turns it around a little bit. It's like the Minister's doing us a favor. We have the budget right, so that must be respected. The minister says it was the only way we could do it. But that is obvious, otherwise we would not have been able to exercise budget law at all. My question is this. The Minister himself says that this was an earlier plan, including the purchase of the F-35s, to complete the squadrons. Could this not have been done earlier as a proposal to the Chamber? I understand now that it has to be for efficiency reasons. At least, if we want to make that purchase, my group has serious doubts about it. The Minister says we have to do it now, we have to do it in July, we can't do it later. But could it have been done before? Could the government have thought of this earlier: the situation with that fate or what exactly it is called "sustainable" is such that we now have to make that purchase? The House would then have had longer time to prepare itself for the debate with the government on this matter and on the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u63	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u64	Thanks for the question. It is precisely the intention that the Chamber should have the opportunity to exercise budget law in the best possible way, but speed it up. For the other budget added from the Spring Note, the moment comes to the budget. So this is what we are putting forward in a way. Could it be sooner? No. The intention for the F-35s was already there, but the budget has only been decided in the Cabinet on the Spring Note. We have written the Defence Note anticipating a decision on additional resources from the Spring Note. You'll know when it's established. You also know that we presented the Defence Note immediately afterwards and sent it to the Chamber. From that moment on, we went to see if we could make those commitments. For the F-35 it is true that fate 17... Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned it correctly........ is still available. So we're gonna have to sign in for that this summer. If we don't, we'll be delayed for at least two years. You are talking about "efficiency considerations." You can call it that, but if you're only participating in a next ticket, then it's certain that you'll join in the back of the line, because other countries have also announced that you're going to buy extra F-35s or F-35s at all, as well as the prices will increase. It is therefore our preference to speed up, and to do so in a sensible way, namely for less money than when we wait and stand in line. The same goes for the Reapers. That is a slightly different argument. The configuration of the four we already have has a production line that just closes at some point. Then you need to switch to a different configuration. Of course, that is neither practical nor necessary. We see no advantages in waiting for another configuration. We actually see only disadvantages in that. That is why we must now be able to make that commitment. That's why we're putting that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u65	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, another follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u66	I have two more factual questions. How much money does the Minister think we'll care if we make that purchase now instead of two years from now? And since when did the Minister know that fate 17 must now be drawn in July, so to speak, and that we must now use it, otherwise we will have to wait two years? How long has it been known?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u67	On that last question, I can say that this was sometime during June when we started preparing this incidental supplementary budget. I'll be able to check it out in a little while. How much more expensive it's gonna be, I can't say. I don't have a glass ball where I can see that exactly. But anyone can count on their fingers, of course, if you see how prices are already rising at the moment, that could be a lot. In anticipation, we think it wise to place that order now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u68	Finally, Mr. Chairman, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u69	If it's final, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u70	But then I conclude, when it comes to the argument that it saves costs, that that's an argument that comes with it, but that's a little speculative because we don't know a lot of costs. As a parliament, at least we are not able to take that into account. It is therefore primarily the idea of "better sooner than later" when it comes to purchasing these F-35s and Reaperdrones. We need them now for our country's defence, and I don't know how the minister would like to fill it out, so that purchase shouldn't be started in two or three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u71	It is not an argument that I use very often, but I think it is important. In any case, I cannot think of any example from history in which these weapons systems have become cheaper over the years. We know the history of the F-16 and the F-35 and we know what the market is like right now. We know which countries have already placed orders. We also know which countries are coming after them. The Finns have placed a very large order. Countries like Belgium and Switzerland also go to the F-35; they are behind us. In other words, you do not have to be an economist or a financial expert. The chance of time leading to a better price is really approaching zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u72	Thank you. You have finished the introduction, but there is another question from Mr Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u73	Thanks to the Minister. We, too, support the accelerated purchase. Does the Minister see any possibility, as Mr Arbouw pointed out in his speech, of using a similar route for other armies, so that weapons supplies can be replenished more quickly, and thus everything we have supplied to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u74	I think that is an excellent question. That's a question that keeps us very busy at the Ministry. The Secretary of State is about to give you an answer, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u75	Then you will continue your speech, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u76	Yes. I come to the questions that have been asked. I'm trying to sort them out a little bit: general questions about security, the Defence Note, then a couple of points about the F-35 and the MQ-9s, and finally perhaps a little bit about the budget. First of all, the whole question of security. Mr Van Apeldoorn, who also spoke on behalf of the Animal Party, outlined the safety dilemma, as he called it. He is, of course, expert in this area, which is why I question his reasoning on that point with some hesitation. Many countries have now decided to invest more in their defence and also in cooperation within the EU and NATO. In some countries, including the Netherlands, but also Germany is an important country at that point.......................................................................................................................................................................... So it is a strengthening that is partly about restoring what you need at least in defence and partly about investing in the armed forces and cooperation within the EU and NATO of the future, mainly in what is needed for a credible deterrent. We have a military force in our defense. We are members of NATO, which is a defensive alliance, a defensive alliance. So it's to prevent us from ever ending up in a war situation. The Netherlands doesn't just do that, but we do that together. So I do not see it as an arms race, but as a necessary investment in weapons and weapons systems to deter them. Terror is only credible when it is actually seen as sufficient. That is what we are aiming for now. Mr Van Apeldoorn then says that I have heard this argument many times, including from others from his party, that NATO invests more money in arms than the Russian Federation and that the Russian economy is smaller than ours. That is all true, but at the same time, unfortunately, because of the current way of warfare of the Russian Federation, we see that this is an aggressor who is unavoidable and does not hesitate to deploy almost the most conceivable conventional weapons, in which human lives do not seem to play a role, either on the military side or on the civilian side, and in which everything that comes on their path is destroyed. In other words, when you talk to people from the Baltic states, for example, they call Irpin and say: we do not want that to be our foreland. That is what we must now stand up to: a real threat of the commitment of everything they have, conventionally. We're gonna have to arm ourselves against that. The second thing I would like to mention on that point is that although NATO was once established because of the Soviet Union, it is not the only threat. Russia, of course, plays a very important role in NATO philosophy. The new Strategic Concept also identifies Russia as a real longer-term threat, but it is not the only threat. We are now seeing, in a sense, a conventional war developing, but of course there is much more. It actually started with some kind of hybrid warfare. There's also a threat in cyber. It happens every day. There's a threat of a war through space. The other threats are also not removed: the threat of terrorism, the threat that can eventually come from things like climate change. So it is much more than the Russian threat, but the Russian threat has been the trigger to rebuild it now and improve it for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u77	The Minister says that the Baltic States do not want a new Irpin in their area as well. No, of course they don't. No one wants that either. That does not answer the question of whether it is necessary to spend 5 billion additional structuralally on defence, and whether we are not already able to defend the NATO territory and provide an effective deterrent. The minister says it's about recovery. But of course it is more than recovery, because with 5 billion a year we are moving towards a much higher level of defence spending than we have had in many years. So I think that goes beyond recovery. The minister says we don't want a new arms race. I assume from the Minister that the Minister does not consider that appropriate. My question was, aren't we at risk? Because the Minister can say: there are all other threats. Yeah, climate crisis, sure. I do not think we should do this primarily along the defence road, but we need other investments. I've said something about China before. I do not think that this is a NATO task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u78	The question, Mr. Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u79	The question is this. The fact remains that Russia spends 66 billion a year on defence and NATO spends 1.1 billion. Now there are all other threats, but even if you add them all together, the question is still justified: should NATO now spend so much more structuralally? And if we do, there will be no response from Russia and/or China and what does that mean for our security?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u80	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u81	This also has to do with Mr Koole's earlier question on the need for arms control and ultimately disarmament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u82	Indeed, I am also coming to arms control and disarmament. The question is: is it enough already? Can NATO now adequately defend its own alliance territory? The answer is actually double, because in the short term the answer is yes. You have seen that, right after 24 February, NATO strengthened the eastern flank and that all countries were prepared to jump in. The Netherlands has also done so. At the same time, we can also see that, for our own country, we could supply two months of F-35s to Bulgaria for the defence of airspace and then no more. Then someone else has to take over. You are of course with 30 countries, but that does say something about that we are really not yet on strength to deliver what is needed, just for defending... Not defending it, but being present on the east flank to deter the threat of the Russian Federation. So we can do a lot like NATO. It's a strong alliance. At the same time, many countries in Europe are lagging behind in terms of their defence expenditure. For example, the Germans really need to make a huge catch-up. We also have a catch-up to make. Although everything we have is very good, our readiness is simply too low. Our equipment is not complete. Our supplies are currently being replenished, but are not up to date. We're honest about that. That means there's work to be done. We need more people. We have been able to conclude a nice agreement on terms of employment, which, fortunately, means that salaries are back on track. I am also convinced that we will be able to attract people despite the difficult labour market. But there really has to be a lot going on in the Netherlands to get to that level at all. If you look ahead to how the world is developing geopolitically, but also technologically, then it will require investment. These are investments that we are going to make now and which are sometimes not going to bear fruit for five or ten years. I therefore think that Mr Van Apeldoorn and I are simply looking at the world differently in that respect. It is of course a good thing that there is a difference of opinion, but this is how the cabinet looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u83	Indeed, my group and I look at the world differently. The danger I see is this. Now Russia is being re-identified as an enemy in the new Strategic Concept. The minister himself made the comparison with the Soviet Union. Then we're actually back in a Cold War frame. Then we will say: there is a danger that Russia will attack NATO. Again, I think that this danger really, really should be seen as very small. Of course, this war can escalate, and we need to avoid that. But then Article 5 applies and then the defence of the NATO territory applies. I really think Putin will change his mind ten times before he crosses that line. If that happens, all hands are on deck. But then we also have the weapons systems, I think, to defend ourselves against. If we are going to say 'we are going to spend a lot more on it, because Russia is the new enemy', then you will come up with a logic in which Russia will behave the same way, perhaps even after Putin. So we'll be back in a new Cold War for decades. I think we can prevent that, but I don't hear the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u84	The fact is that we are now looking at a real war in Europe, with a lot of deaths and terrible destruction every day. That's just a fact. It's also a fact that's causing that war, I think. It comes from Putin's choice to invade Ukraine, without any justification. I think we agree on that, too. The fact is that Finland and Sweden, for example, have said that: we are changing our position from non-alliance for decades. They were not members of NATO. Of course, they were not neutral, but they were deliberately not members of NATO. So their security perception, their threat perception, has changed. They have said: we do want to join NATO now, because we believe that this is necessary for our security; moreover, we think that by becoming a member we can also contribute something to NATO and the security of the NATO territory. The world really changed in that respect on 24 February. I do not think that we can afford the luxury of assuming that Putin will not do so and that the Russian Federation will still restrict itself to countries outside the NATO territory. By the way, that is also bad enough, namely that there is a war in Ukraine and that we know that Georgia and Moldova are also threatened in this sense. I will say it again: if you live in the Baltic States, you really do look at it quite differently. And so are our allies. They are also members of NATO, and we have a responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u85	I'll share that last part. I myself was in Lithuania recently, and I have heard that very well from the Lithuanians. I understand that. We will be discussing the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO this afternoon. Unfortunately, the Minister cannot be there, but you will hear what the SP Group and the Group of the Party of Animals think about it. I understand what the Minister is saying. Of course, there is war in Ukraine now. But we are not going to help the Ukrainians by purchasing F-35s or Reaperdrones now or by significantly increasing our defence budget. In order to help the Ukrainians, we are doing so now with support, and military support is also not necessary. If we are concerned about that war, we need to see how it is possible to end that war while preserving Ukraine's sovereignty. I think that's the bet. So I think that is a different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u86	I respect that opinion, but at the same time I think that one of the lessons of the war that is raging now is that you are at least too late if you wait until the war breaks out. That's what we're trying to avoid right now. That is also the argument for speeding up the purchase of the F-35s and the Reapers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u87	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u88	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. In this category I still have two points. Those were both Mr Koole's questions, I think. How does the expansion of the F-35s and the Reapers fit into NATO's Strategic Concept? After all, this is new. That's right. Yet both weapons systems fit in very well. In the analysis of the threats to NATO in the Strategic Concept, I believe that Mr Arbouw talked about how important it is to have the right weapons systems and how important it is to ensure that the various countries in the NATO alliance are focusing on air defence, long-range armament and surveillance and intelligence, for which we have the Reapers, of course. The intention was already to complete that third squadron with the F-35s. We are adding the Reapers now, because we also have the budgetary space for that. It fits very well with the Strategic Concept and it also fits with what NATO demands from the Netherlands to contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u89	I welcome this answer, but the follow-up question was whether there was any consultation with the European countries in NATO. In the end, you want to come up with a common European policy, including procurement policy. But we can already see that the European countries are working together, at least in terms of procurement policy, but using US weapons systems such as the F-35. That is possible, but the idea is, of course, that working together will ultimately achieve efficiency. Mr Van Apeldoorn pointed that out. Is this accelerated addition to three squadrons also a step towards cooperation with the other European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u90	That's a very good question. By the way, the Secretary of State will deal with this in the same way. On the main points: we already have the system of the F-35, of course. Actually, we've already made that choice. That third squadron can only be finished with F-35s, so it would be a disinvestment not to. Of course, we also have other, but certainly not just American weapons systems. Look for new weapon systems to be developed. I recently signed a concept for a new helicopter with only European countries, out of my mind six, in the context of NATO. There is a Frans-German project that deals with ground-based weapon systems that the Netherlands joins. So more cooperation, more interoperability and certainly also American, but not exclusively. It is extremely important that we use this momentum to further boost European cooperation in the defence industry. This is, I think, the moment before that. So far, it's always been very difficult. It is quite remarkable that there is still so much fragmentation with so many different systems both in NATO and in Europe. We now see it in the deliveries to Ukraine. We are now exporting our own fragmentation to Ukraine, which means that they have to learn to work with numerous different weapon systems. That is all extremely undesirable. I therefore agree with Mr Koole's direction. The Secretary of State will say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u91	Perhaps this is a follow-up question for the Secretary of State; that is up to the Secretary of State and the Minister himself. If we continue with the F-35 now because we already have that weapon system, does that mean that European cooperation is particularly in this direction? I am curious, for example, what the French think of that. The fragmentation that exists is of course not good for efficiency, but it is not good for the operation either. If you all have different systems, it's harder to communicate between the different armed forces of the different countries. Does that mean there's real unity, including France? Does this not lead to a large strategic dependence on one supplier outside Europe? How does this relate to the strategic autonomy that Europe itself claims to want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u92	I will say a few words about it very briefly; I am undoubtedly being supplemented in this way. Just for the F-35, currently the fifth generation of this type of fighter jets, fighter jets, this is the best thing there is. For this reason, many countries choose to invest in F-35s, including the Germans, for example. It is not against another European country, it is simply for the best that there is in that area. At the same time, the technique continues and we will see what the future brings. With the Air Force in particular, I can see that this cooperation is very good, even if different systems are used. For example, with the army, it is incredibly important that if you work together, as we do with the German army, you not only invest as much as possible in the same equipment, but also in the same configuration and the same software applications. So that's very important, for example when we look at the armored haters, of which we're going to put more into surgery. The armored hater doesn't operate alone; there you have all kinds of systems besides which you have to communicate with each other. We are now talking to the Germans about: let us invest in the best means of communication there is, but also the same means of communication. I think those are the steps that are needed. I think you should be very practical about that. You shouldn't do exactly the same thing all of you. You don't have to do that at all, but you have to think very carefully about interoperability. You also have to think very carefully about the cycles in which you sit with your replacement, because there you will have to move a bit with each other so that you can get into the same cycle and work on that integration in that way. At some point it is no longer really interoperability, but it is simply interchangeability: that you can, so to speak, do the same work in each other's material.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u93	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u94	I'll continue with the answer. Finally, under this section, arms control and non-proliferation. Mr Koole asked for that. That does seem a bit contradictory. Mr Van Apeldoorn also hinted at this. You invest in arms and arms, and at the same time, as the Netherlands, we are still, of course, in favour of disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. I think that is very good and I also think that that hand should continue to go hand in hand. So given the security situation, which has just deteriorated, which you should also take into account in the long term, we consider this commitment essential. At the same time, we continue to work from the Netherlands, from the cabinet and also from foreign affairs, on the global efforts in the fields of disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. We will conduct the dialogue with other countries on this issue and we will continue to promote it in international forums, because that would, of course, be the most beautiful thing in the world and would contribute most to strategic stability. Only it requires that we do so with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u95	A supplementary question on this point too. I also asked: does it not lead to the need for a new view in which you accept this new geopolitical situation and threat? Well, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, At least if a fact accepts. This therefore leads to higher defence expenditure, at least in the coming years. At the same time, you want to stick to that arms control and non-proliferation. That requires, say, an intellectual exercise I haven't seen yet. Then it is not enough to say that the government still intends to do so and supports arms control. Luckily, I agree with the government. I would then like to see a more elaborate vision, an intellectual exercise or whatever you want to call it. Can the Minister promise that it will be sent to the Chambers in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u96	I just wanted to say that I get the first part, that remark. I think that's true. We need to rethink and think about how we are dealing with the new geopolitical situation. I do not yet want to promise Mr Koole and the Chamber that we will come up with such a vision, also because it is not just up to me. This really is something of the cabinet, especially of course something of the Foreign Minister. We are now giving priority to making sure that we do what is necessary to strengthen the armed forces in order to be able to play our role within the EU and NATO. This other side is there, too. I really think that's something we should operate on with the State Department. What I do want to promise is that I will take the suggestion to the cabinet and we will come back to how we want to deal with it in the future. Let's see. I thought I actually answered all the questions around the F-35, so I'll go over to some of the questions that have been asked about the Reaper. In fact, all these questions relate to something that is not currently being proposed, namely the Reaper's armament. Several spokesmen have rightly noted that the cabinet has announced the intention of arming the Reaper, but that is not part of the proposal that lies here. That is something that we will be discussing in detail with the Chamber. First of all, through the debate that I will have with the House of Representatives in any case, together with the Foreign Affairs colleague on the cabinet response to the AIV report. I believe that we sent that to the Chamber on 17 June. This concerns the recommendations made by the AIV on the deployment and regulation of autonomous and semi-autonomous weapons. You have seen that the cabinet wants to take on board the recommendations broadly and that we are therefore thinking about what that means. It will be debated in the autumn. Let me say here that we really think it is crucial that this cabinet response also states that there is meaningful human control in the use of autonomous and semi-autonomous weapons. That is the starting point and on that basis we want to conduct the debate and establish the frameworks for ourselves and also internationally. It's not that far. And it is not yet too far away that we are actually acquiring that weaponry. That was announced in the Defence Note. That is also a wish of the House of Representatives. He said that on a motion of censure. So far we have MQ-9s for intelligence gathering, and we also want to use the four additional MQ-9 devices. I thought Mrs Moonen said the same thing in the event of an interruption. So we're using them to support operations. That's what we've actually started and that's what we're going to do. If we go from four to eight later, that means that we would be able to do that work in two places at the same time. But these drones can do more, of course. That is why we are discussing arms. That is another task that will be discussed with the Chamber at another time. It will also have to be decided at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u97	But I think Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to speak briefly with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u98	I have a bit of a problem with what the Minister is saying. She says: we are going to talk to the Chamber about this at another time. I hope she will at some point do the same with this Chamber. But in the Defence Note, it's just plain clear that this is a government policy idea. There's a policy plan to arm those drones. And now we have to decide today on an accelerated purchase of four new Reaperdrones. We are going to vote on this today. If I combine that with what is stated in the Defence Note, then I think the question is justified as to what the cabinet's considerations are to move towards arming those drones. That question is now justified, even if we are going to talk about it again later. After all, if we agree today to the purchase of those drones, then we have them too. Then we are going to have a debate on arms. But that is also the case now, in the sense that arms is already a policy idea of the cabinet. So I would still like to hear from the Minister about why. Then what would the armament be needed for? And is the Minister also aware of the questions raised, also in relation to its ethical dimension?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u99	Mr President, you are, of course, dealing with the order of business. However, I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that this is not on the agenda. On the agenda is the purchase of four additional Reapers. We already have four. I just said that we have it for the commitment to intelligence and surveillance. So they're really meant to collect intelligence. So we want to buy four more, because then we will be able to do that work in two places at the same time. So that's the argument. We have indeed announced in the Defence Note that we believe that we should be able to arm the drones. Mr Van Apeldoorn is quite right, but that is not on the agenda. That's an announcement in the Defence Note. There are two things that precede that. Firstly, there is a debate on semiautonomous and autonomous weapons systems, as far as I am concerned, following the cabinet response to the AIV report. That goes into the ethical aspect that Mr Van Apeldoorn is talking about. So the mere fact of buying four extra Reapers is not about that. But the prospect of arming the four drones that we already have and the eight we will have in our future is thus preceded by a debate on that AIV report and the cabinet response to it. And this armament is, of course, preceded by the proposal for the purchase of these weapons, which must come from the cabinet. That too has yet to be done, and this is not foreseen until next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u100	It is clear that the Minister does not intend to answer my questions about this. I regret that. I'll leave it at this for now. The Minister says that the debate still needs to be held and that these considerations still need to be made, including those ethical questions that I have raised here. I would say that if it had not already been written in the Defence Memorandum, then that debate would have been conducted internally. Now it's in the Defense Note just as an announcement. It says, "Defense is going to invest in drones' armament." So apparently, DOD's out and the minister's out. They think that is a good thing. But the reasons why it would be a good thing, the arguments in that regard, the Minister does not want to share with us now, because the debate is not going to take place until later. I'm having trouble with that. It's already in the Defence Note. And now there is also the supplementary budget, in which we are asked to agree to the purchase of those Reaperdrones, which will be armed as far as the Minister is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u101	Drones who can be armed. That's what the parliament knew when buying the first four drones. Then the Chamber knew that there would be an opportunity to arm them. But the stakes at the moment of the Reapers we have and of the four we buy are therefore for another branch of sport, namely the gathering of information. And, of course, I did say something about it. I said: there is an ethical discussion about it. And the cabinet has already taken a position on this, especially as regards autonomous weapons systems. This is not about autonomous weapons systems, because this Reaper is not an autonomous weapon system. It is a weapon system in which in all cases people ultimately control. So that's a different category. But that is a crucial starting point for us. And indeed, I think Mr Van Apeldoorn is right in saying that we should therefore have that debate together. The fact that the cabinet has already announced this policy proposal seems to me to be a good thing in terms of transparency. But let's just do it in the order in which it belongs: an announcement, a debate on the Defence Note and then a proposal to purchase that particular weapon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u102	You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u103	Thank you. Mr President, this is about the Reapers. Actually, finally, I think... I think I've said enough about budget law as well. Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have come to the conclusion that thanks to the interruptions on the part of the Chamber, I have answered the questions I wanted to answer. I would suggest that the Secretary of State should answer the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u104	Finally, Mr. Arbouw would like to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u105	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. In my brief contribution, I had also mentioned the lower limit of the armed forces, which we have really gone through in recent times. I would like to have the reflection of the rulers on: how are we going to prevent it from happening again in the future, then again in the light of that time? It costs so much money, energy and capacity to build it back on level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u106	I apologise to Mr Arbouw, because he had indeed asked that question. I had also written "reflection" because I think that's what he was asking for. That is, of course, a legitimate concern. We did talk about it a little bit at first. I'm totally sharing his analysis. It's very easy to stop something and it takes time and effort to rebuild something. That's the situation we're in right now. I have also said in the House of Representatives: it has actually lasted until this cabinet period, the previous cabinet also invested, but that was not nearly enough to get that 2%, but the way up was already found before we took the step and it took until the war in Ukraine before we got the 2% back in sight. We are not the only country in that country, but there have also been countries that have already concluded, for example, after the annexation of Crimea, that further investments in their defence were required. NATO has, of course, explicitly asked for this. What it requires, and that is also very important to me as Minister of Defence, because that is the most important thing for the Defence Organisation, is that you have a long-term commitment in the budgetary sense. So no fluctuations. If there is a structural increase of 5 billion, you should also know that you can count on it for much longer than one cabinet period, and also for more than two cabinet periods. That's what you plan on, invest on, hire people. We're all there. In the end, it's always a political decision. The Cabinet makes proposals and the Chambers check that, but we're really there ourselves. I think that's the best guarantee to learn from the current circumstances, to conclude that it's necessary that you have that defence in order, even in times when there's less concern about direct threat, and that it's part of the country you want to be, the alliances you want to enter into, that you're able to offer that defence when it comes to it. I understand the question and my answer is actually that political commitment that goes over a cabinet period and over elections is something we take care of ourselves, in which we are with ourselves. We'll have to guard that ourselves. This means that, as Minister of Defence, I have to convey and explain this well and that we simply need to maintain that additional 5 billion for a long period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u107	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Actually, there are only two questions left for me. I would like to point out, in line with the Minister's first term in the direction of Mr Van Apeldoorn, that it was indeed true: it was both from the JSF programme at the beginning of June and from the MQ-9- programme that the US government informed us at the beginning of June. That's when the ISB was filed on June 24th. We'd have liked to do it even faster. Unfortunately, we did not succeed, but still within two weeks afterwards. There are two questions that remain for me. The first was made by Mr Arbouw and also by Mr Beuker: do we see any other possibilities for accelerating the purchase of equipment? The answer is yes, but not to the limit. You can already see a bit in the strategy that we have included in the Defence Note that we are not driving out of the barn for nothing, and that we are going to strengthen the equipment we have with firepower. So we're already gonna use what we already had very extra. But there is still much more to be done than that, such as buying together, of course, at national or international level. Of course, we are continuing the COTS/MOTS policy firmly. And of course, there's today's proposal for the F-35 and the MQ-9s. But of course we are also looking at how we can use Fast Track Procurement much more intensively. We are also going to update the DMP process, so to what extent that process still needs to be adapted so that we can make even more speed. We are also going to consider in a European context whether the procurement rules can be tweaked here and there, but that is, of course, a longer-term process. National arms directors are also talking to each other about this. That's more about the process and more conceptual. By the way, we recently informed the House of Representatives in the Valstar motion about what we are all doing on that point, also in relation to what has been going towards Ukraine. The Eppink motion was adopted last week in the Chamber, also in that line. Those calls keep coming, and we're trying to get the maximum response. If you then look through your eye hairs a bit forward... you have of course seen proposals for the Navy and for the Air Force. So we also hear: hey, we can speed up the army, can't we? Certainly, there too we are looking at that, for example when it comes to the Boxers and the Scanias and the modernisation of the Stingers. But also that very important reinforcement of fire support, as announced in the Defence Note 2022, we are picking up and biting with both hands. Preferably it doesn't go through an ISB, but just through the regular budget. Luckily, we're gonna have that together. The second and last question left for me is the following. Mr Koole also asked the Minister: how does the F-35 programme relate to the European cooperation story? The beauty of F-35 is, of course, that it is already a very successful European programme. You can see that from the different countries that already had the F-35 and how we got together. I really think that this is an example of how to synergize and look at the needs at the same time: how can you manage the industrial landscape in relation to the production and development that is taking place there? You can see this for example because the F-35s are built in Italy and we do the engine maintenance in the Netherlands. More European countries have now placed their orders. You certainly have a point, and you also hinted: how do you look at the future? With regard to the direction you are taking in this regard with regard to European strategic autonomy, the Minister and I recognise us very much in the words you spoke about it. I just don't think that with big blueprints and seven-mile boots that's gonna be home soon, but that's really an incremental process. In the meantime, as the Minister has already pointed out, it is of course also important to work effectively, for example in the field of data exchange, if you do not yet have the same material, interoperability and in future even interchangeable cooperation. But the direction you are suggesting is the direction the Minister can say that she is really everywhere in Europe to talk about this. It's really high on our priority list. At the same time, it's complicated. Recently it was discussed with the German counterpart Zimmer. That was right about this. In fact, I think that as a Europe we need to take a few extra steps to keep our own pants up, especially in view of the geopolitical image that may well become even more complex than it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u109	I welcome the answer that there is already a lot of coordination. That this does not happen overnight and that strategic autonomy is a complex process, I agree with the Secretary of State. I'm just as curious as you are. Of course, he mentions the countries with which we are now working well. I mentioned France explicitly. What is France's position in this discussion, with its own arms industry? That's what it sees going to the Americans. There has often been a discussion in the past as to whether we are not much longer, for example, French aircraft, we have just done airplanes, that will not happen for the time being, or that will have to involve the European arms industry in any other way. How's France in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u110	I did not ask the French, but if I may make a cautious assessment, I think the French see opportunities and threats, just as we do. With regard to the F-35, precisely that point, when it comes to the exchange of data, there is little chance that the French will move quickly to the F-35. That's what you're talking about, of course. In the wider spectrum, how Germany operates and develops, how France operates and develops, and how we, as the Netherlands, can handle it smartly for Europe as a whole, but also with regard to the strength and quality in the Dutch defence industry, for example, we will have to determine a smart position in this. That won't be from one day to the next. They may have some window projects in the making. They will also determine the success or the rate at which we can continue to develop as one Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u111	The Secretary of State says he didn't ask France. I think he should have, because if you work Europeanly, you must really discuss with all the countries, especially with a large military country and nuclear power like France, how things are going if you want to move forward towards European cooperation. The planes have now taken steps, but you can also think of submarines. France has experience of this, and sometimes not such nice experiences, as in Australia. They also produce and the Netherlands also needs submarines. There are more areas where you can do that. I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss this matter with the French in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u112	Then you'll have to make a distinction. Specifically about the F-35, Mr Koole pretends that if the French were to say that you shouldn't, our argument would fall into the water. We're in a program, we have F-35s, we've announced we're going to the third squadron. It is part of the NATO question, which, of course, includes France. Besides, totally. Only my reaction was, if the question is whether we have been talking about the F-35, my answer to that was no, I think the answer did not make much difference to the consideration and considerations that we are standing here for. In width we are on the same side of the cord pulling. In broad terms, France, and certainly Germany, and let us not underestimate ourselves, we have very important talks to have, because we do not really know how the geopolitical picture is going to develop. Now we have one front to focus on as NATO. There could be even more complexity. We are now in the front line, but we also see in all kinds of parts that the production chains cannot cope, that there is also a need to start producing much more in Europe itself. This will be very interesting for how the industrial defence landscape in Europe is going to develop. That's what's happening now. That is why the Minister and I am also active in many areas in order to have this very discussion. We're really pulling on the same side. The fact that we should have consulted the French here specifically on the F-35 is the only point where we do not yet find each other entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u113	A third time, Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u114	We're pulling on the same side. Specifically about the F-35, the French have their own systems and it was not to be expected that they would go to the F-35 equally quickly. Then, of course, there can be a discussion with the French about interoperability, because that is of course important for the commitment. Is that conversation going to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u115	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u116	Please continue your speech. Or were you at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u117	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u118	Thank you. Mr. Frentrop, you want to ask another question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u119	In the first term, I asked the Minister a question and she completely forgot to answer it. I would have liked to ask her to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u120	That was the question that was not so much about pension funds themselves, but about governmental standards...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u121	Can I help you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u122	I remember, because I've been paying very close attention. In fact, there was a tightening up, because the demand might not have been sharp enough. Should we not, together with the Foreign Office, re-examine what our subsidy relationships look like, because it could be that we sponsor non-governmental organisations who then tell pension funds what they should and should not do? I think that was your question. We do not see any reason at the moment to tackle this question together with the Foreign Office. The first is that, in my opinion, you yourself indicated as an expert expert on pension funds that, in general, pension funds are run by very adequate people who weigh independently, despite what is being said to them. The second is that we also live in a country in which all kinds of organisations have the freedom to determine their own views, and fortunately. The third is the priorities we set out in what we do and do not spend our time on. We are discussing all kinds of other subjects here today and we think that those other things take precedence over this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u123	My question does not require much action or research or effort. It is about stopping subsidies, so reducing expenditure. I don't think your arguments really go against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u124	The first two arguments were that we do not recognise the problem you are raising as such. Then it will also be difficult to make a proposal, even if it is a button that we could turn around in one go. As a cabinet, we must think it is a good idea and we have not yet arrived at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u125	Mrs Moonen is also from the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u126	Thanks for the answer. I have another question for the Secretary of State. He talked about the very good coordination between them about the purchase of equipment. Most specialists argue that the equipment is becoming increasingly intelligent. The Minister also talked about the intelligence of the new armaments. I said in the Defence Paper that it is very clear that it is also about international knowledge exchange and about international joint training and training, precisely because the systems are becoming more intelligent. Is there anything else you can say about that? Is it not just about matching who buys what in Europe, but also about the follow-up step, so how do you then do the knowledge and data exchange and how do you train and train together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u127	Sure. Totally agree. There really is a chain reasoning behind that. We just talked about the front of the chain. Before the purchase there is also the joint increase, the determination of capacities and so on. You can also see that if you go further up that chain, for example in Germany, the Chinooks buy. The Dutch, who already have a lot of experience with those Chinooks, are now helping the Germans in training and training. And as you can see, I find that very beautiful too, that we are training and training more and more through simulators. At the Embraer, a large air transport plane that we are now going to purchase as a replacement for the C-130, there are therefore immediately possibilities to train via simulation. The F-35 programme is really at the forefront of that. I got to sit in that simulator myself once. I'm afraid I haven't had the chance to experience it, but who knows? I was just allowed to look at it; I don't think the plug was in it. But you see what that does and how many flight hours you can already standardize via an almost reallife game-like experience. That's really great. In the programmes behind that, of course, we run together. You can absolutely see that in the F-35 and that's the way to go forward for all kinds of other developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u128	Thanks for the answer. The D66 group also attaches great importance to this chain approach. We are committed to working together at European level to share that intelligence and knowledge, from the front to the roll-out after purchase, and also to doing these trainings more together within Europe. So thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u129	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u130	Thank you. You were at the end of your answer. Now we're on a short second term. I give the floor to Mr Koole of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. The PvdA Group understands the rapid and unusual procedure chosen. The budget right remains in place. Next time we're gonna do it, if we can, of course just get back to normal with more time. In this case, this choice was understandable. I welcome the Minister's commitment to raise the issue of arms control in relation to increased defence expenditure under pressure from the international situation in the cabinet. The intellectual exercise about this tension will be carried out in the cabinet with her colleagues, I hope. I welcome that commitment. I also welcome the remark that the decision on the drones does not prejudicate the decision to arm those drones later or not. Thank you for that. I will advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u132	Thank you, Mr Koole. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP Group. He will also speak on behalf of the Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister for the beanword. I don't think we're totally gonna agree today anyway. The Minister is talking about all sorts of threats that are coming at us. I do share that view, although I believe that many of these threats do not require a military response. The minister mentioned China among other things. I would like to stress once again that above all we should not participate in what seems increasingly to be a cold war between China and the United States. The Minister and I will not agree on the security dilemma either. I understand what the Minister is saying about the danger of a new arms race, but there is still a risk that, if we invest much more in defence now, this will also strengthen the perception of insecurity of other countries, such as China and Russia, and that the arms control, disarmament and leisure policy that we will eventually have to go to will be further out of the picture. In this respect, I supported earlier Mr Koole's request for a letter on this subject. I understand that the Minister can't promise it now, because it has to come from the entire cabinet. I hope that letter will come in the future. So we do not support the accelerated purchase of F-35s and Reaperdrones. That may be clear by now. I just wanted to come back to the cost argument. We're sure prices will rise, just not yet how much. If we go for fate 17, will those prices be fixed? Or can they go up much further in the course of the project? Of course, we have seen before how costs continue to rise and a billion-dollar project became even more expensive. Finally, Mr President. The minister said it's a policy idea to arm the drones. She put this in the Defence Note to be transparent about this. In this debate, the Minister is less transparent about the reasons behind this policy idea, why we need those armed drones, what we want to use them for, and what questions that could possibly raise. In any case, I hope that we will be able to have the debate with the Minister at another time. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that I will advise my group and the Group of the Party of Animals to vote against these supplementary defence budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mr Frentrop of the Frentrop Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I found that for years the Ministry of Defence did not invest in defence capabilities that were reduced and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is subsidising organisations that call on pension funds not to invest in the defence industry. Now we have a new policy. The Ministry of Defence wants to invest in expanding defence capacity, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still subsidises organisations that call on pension funds not to do so. I have suggested that there may be a need for accompanying policy and I have asked the Minister to consult with the Foreign Minister. At first, the Minister did not answer my question. Secondly, when I repeated the question, there was an answer. If I may summarize, the answer is as follows: we do have better things to do; we are already busy enough. You will understand that I do not find that answer satisfactory. That is why I would like to make a motion. The: Mr Frentrop and Mr Dessing proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas strengthening the Dutch defence capacity serves the country's interest;]] [[noting that there are private organisations taking action to persuade Dutch pension funds not to invest in the defence industry;]] [[Considering that those organisations are free to do so;]] [[but also considers that it is not the responsibility of the public authorities to grant subsidies to activities contrary to the national interest;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is appropriate and possible to end the subsidy of organisations taking action against investment in the defence industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-X-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I have already indicated that I have no further questions in the second term. I thank the rulers for their reply and for the debate. I wish them every success in the challenges they face.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u137	Thank you. I didn't think of that. Will the Minister and the Secretary of State be able to respond immediately? Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u138	Mr President, thank you. I am pleased to hear that, although there is no universal support, there is broad support for the proposals we are making. It is very nice to see that on the last day before your recess. Of course, we are waiting for the votes to be taken. I say to Mr Koole that I will honour the commitment to the debate. I believe that we should have a debate within the cabinet and in the Netherlands on the relationship between the changed geopolitical conditions and the questions of arms control. That intellectual exercise, as Mr Koole calls it, we are going to do. Indeed, the proposals that are before us, and which will hopefully be approved by the Chamber, do not preach and refer for a preliminary ruling, because that is a separate proposal that you will probably be able to see next year. Mr Van Apeldoorn said that we probably do not agree. Moreover, I agree with him that not everything needs a military response. In the end, Defence and the military are part of a larger whole, including in international relations and in geopolitical relations. But it is an important part, even when it comes to non-military threats. There's an interaction between those two. If we say that China is pursuing an extremely assertive policy and has very ambitious goals in terms of their role in the world and their military power, that is something we need to think about in the broad geopolitical sense. Then it is about diplomacy, about economic relations and also about what one might expect there in a military capacity. You have to think about all that. The Secretary of State is about to discuss the prices in lot number 17. You'll get that answer from the Secretary of State. I have just given an answer on the weapons and the Reapers in response to Mr Koole. Then Mr Frentrop. I'm sorry I left his question in the first place. I would have answered it, but the Secretary of State answered it very well. The only thing I could add to that answer is that it is a real point. We are also discussing how to deal with this at European level. We want to promote strategic autonomy in Europe. We do need that arms industry. We also want the arms industry to deliver faster now. That's where we see bottlenecks. This means that you also have to face up to it: what does it mean if certain investors exclude themselves from it? So I do not find it strange that this issue should be raised here. But I would really advise against the solution proposed in the motion for a resolution on this matter. I also think that Mr Frentrop himself said in his first term that we are living in a democratic rule of law. That includes power and counterpower. NGOs have an important place in our country, in the type of democracy we want to be and the type of free society we want to be. So there is room for all kinds of opinions, also critical opinions. If every critical view of an NGO is a reason to close the subsidy tap, then I think we are not on the right track. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I hope that Mr Frentrop, with the answer of the Secretary of State and my addition to that, will be satisfied at least with the fact that we have taken his question seriously. I thank Mr Arbouw for his support. I left one more question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u139	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I call Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u140	Mr. Chairman. That question is about fate-17 prizes. It almost sounds like we're in a bingo, but it's really about something more serious than that. Those are estimates. Well-founded estimates. The negotiations are going to do America with the sector. These are the estimates based on previous experience and the assessment on which we are now heading. The estimates we have included in the confidential annex. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u142	I have come to deal with the four legislative proposals. First, the legislative proposal 36143, Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Defence (X) for the year 2022 (Second incidental supplementary budget). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. Next to the legislative proposal 36144, Amendment of the budget statement of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund (K) for the year 2022 (Second incidental supplementary budget). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. Next to the legislative proposal 36120-X, Amendment of the budget states of the Ministry of Defence (X) for the year 2022 (change related to the Spring Note). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. Finally, the legislative proposal 36120-K, Amendment of the budget statement of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund for the year 2022 (change related to the Spring Note). Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. The Registrar whispers to me that the motion tabled will also be voted on after dinner break. I'm from the reserve bank, so I'm gonna need some support from time to time. But we're also going to vote on the motion, Mr. Frentrop. Well, that's for sure. I can't tell you the results yet. I shall now suspend the sitting until 11.45 a.m. Then we will continue with the rest of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u143	May I make a suggestion? I propose that the debate on the budget for Justice and Security be brought together. We have a very long day today, with a lot of debates. We've finished this item an hour earlier. It may be possible to examine whether it is also possible for the Minister to start earlier. It is the D66 Group's preference to make the best use of the time we have during the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u144	One moment, Mrs. Moonen. I'm just gonna have a little talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-2.u145	Mrs. Moonen, it was a perfect proposal, but we can't implement it. We do not have the rulers at hand and we would then move a bit forward, but we cannot start the afternoon programme earlier. So I propose that we stick to the resumption of the sitting at 11.45 a.m.
