ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u1	We are going to start with a second reading of the amendment of the Constitution, which is a change in the Constitution aimed at introducing a provision on an electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u2	A number of speakers have signed up. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is here for us. It is for her the first time in this plenary. First of all, I am going to Mrs Leijten of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is a celebration to be allowed to debate the Constitution. There can be no greater celebration for the new Minister of the Interior than to kick off with it. It is also a second-reading law. This means that an passed bill in two-thirds majority must go through this Chamber and through the Upper Chamber. It looks good, because the old coalition wanted it and the old coalition is the new coalition. Many parties support this proposal. I will still use this legal process to convince the others that what we are doing here with the Constitution is really not the right choice. Giving people, Dutch people living abroad, the opportunity to opt for the First Chamber was a bit of a wake-up call for this bill, but of course that is not possible. Because no one can choose the First Chamber. We choose the Provincial States and those members elect the First Chamber. It's kicked. If you want Dutch people living abroad to have the right to vote in the First Chamber, you have to arrange the same as in the Second Chamber and then you don't need the First Chamber anymore. That is another legislative proposal and another debate; we can talk to the SP about that very well. But what you need to do now is to make a kind of Provincial States for everyone living abroad, for Dutch people living abroad, while the rest of the world is not Provincial States. You can't make that out. These people are Dutch, but not residents. Precisely when choosing the Provincial States or the City Council, the resident criterion applies. That leaves out this bill, and that is why this bill is not consistent in the Constitution. That's why it's really not wise to do this. However, the Chamber and the First Chamber have decided in all their wisdom that there will now be a electoral college, a new body of non-residents that, as it were, will elect the First Chamber to represent residents of the rest of the world. The Dutch who live outside the national borders have the right to choose. That's what we're gonna organize, and that's not gonna matter to one seat in the First Chamber. So we're going to trample a lot and organize a lot for a problem that doesn't exist. And with that, you're taking a walk with the Constitution, because you're actually letting go of the Dutch citizenship and the resident criterion, the things that are now the basis for helping to determine who the representatives of the people are. We have said that we think this is unwise. We have tried to convince the former Minister of this, and I am also trying to do so now. I understand that a minister who just arrived and is going to do a second reading actually likes that it is a race that has run. But maybe she understands the constitutional objections. Maybe she'll see that he's not such a beautiful figure. But yes, it is a run and how good is it to get your first bill through the Second and First Chamber very quickly? I can imagine that's a good start. However, I do not want to let this go without a few critical questions about implementation. The last time we talked about this in this Chamber with other spokesmen, although Mr Sneller was there, I think Mr Bishop, as well as my esteemed predecessor, Mr Van Raak, was asked how it is being carried out and what exactly we know. Especially the First Chamber has really specifically addressed the question of what it looks like. We received an execution letter in June 2021, before the summer. When I read it, I find it complicated. There are all kinds of choices that we have to make. Parties must sign in. Parties chosen in that electoral college of, let's say, the province of the rest of the world. But what if that's a party that doesn't exist yet? Can they only be political parties? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Kunnen dat individuen zijn?]] In the Netherlands, anyone can register for any election, but these are people who are not in the Netherlands. They will then have to sign up, sign up authorized. It's been chosen to do that digitally. That's fraud-prone. We're having quite a lot of discussion about what we're doing digitally in the election. Do you have to do that? And do you have to want to? Can't you do that through the mailing system? What if too few people sign up? There are 39 people to be elected to this electoral college, let me just say, the Provincial States of the rest of the world. But what if there are no 39 people? That's a question, too. Suppose a number of people have been chosen on behalf of the CDA, some chosen on behalf of the VVD and some on behalf of the SP. They have one job. That electoral college has one job, that's all. That's choosing the First Chamber. That electoral college will be appointed for four years, I understand. I think that's kind of crazy, too. So you are elected for four years for one task, which must take place within three months of your election. So you have to be able to do that, you have to be powerful, and you have to name it all. Then people in the Netherlands must vote, because that is the wish. But what if all the people of the VVD say, "We're sending one out. He'll do those permissions for us and fill out those crosses. And huppetee: we voted"? Because, yes, they must come from all over the world. And that can be tricky. It could take days. People don't always live in big, important cities at an embassy. They can also live somewhere in the middle of nowhere and are on their way for a really long time. Then we can have someone powerful. Is that even possible for the Provincial States? Is that even? I'd like to know. We organize it in such a way that the city of The Hague does all this. The city of The Hague also has the electoral college. She has now said that she wants to carry out that task, but what if she says that it is no longer possible or that she no longer wants to do so? Where would it go? Shouldn't we go to a county? And the final question, Mr President. If this bill is not there in time... No, let me put it this way: when should the implementing law be there to allow for the next Provincial State elections to set up an electoral college, as if it were the Provincial States for the rest of the world with only one task, namely choosing the First Chamber? Because yes, there are lists to be made, requests to be made, you name it all. We saw in the previous elections that decisions were taken very late at the Ministry of the Interior, which made it quite difficult for the Election Council and for municipalities to organise the elections. So what is the final date on which that law of introduction will have to be adopted in order for it to apply for the next elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u4	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Each Dutch citizen shall have the same right to elect the members of general representative bodies and to be elected members of those bodies, Article 4. The States-General represent the entire Dutch people, Article 50. The members of both chambers shall be elected on the basis of proportional representation, Article 53. For the real connoisseurs: I left out some things but this is the meaning of those three articles. Those principles were the reason for the D66 Congress in 2015 to say that all Dutch citizens abroad should also have the right to vote and influence the composition of the Senate. Over the years, pastors of mine, Fatma Koşer Kaya, Monica den Boer and Sjoerd Sjoerdsma, have always been pursuing that revision and that desire of our congress would lead to a constitutional change. The previous period we held the first reading in this Chamber and in the Senate. You could indeed say that the ball is on the spot to ensure that next year the voice of non-residents can also be heard in the Senate composition. But there is still a lot to be done. This Minister also knows that counting on a two-thirds majority in that first reading does not guarantee a two-thirds majority in the second reading. But above all, what remains to be done is the implementing law. I am reluctant to burden the constitutional review too much with the implementation details, but it is true that we also had a discussion on this at first reading. I'm also glad there's a lot more already. I refer to the information provided by the Council of State. Furthermore, there is the report of Otjes that you have to be quite beta for to really understand but the scope of which was also clear to me. I therefore think that these details should really be discussed by the law, which is partly separate from this but, of course, is in the process of being extended. So I would like to say a few things that are still difficult for my group, and that is particularly about proportional representation. We know that there are about 800,000 Dutch people living abroad. We do not know exactly how many there are and we certainly do not know how many of them are entitled to vote in terms of age, etc. But when you think about proportionality, of course, that's a very large group, bigger than some provinces. At the same time, even the Registration Non-Residents is considered inappropriate, if I understand the documents correctly, at some point there were about 500,000 people in the territory, while it is nevertheless a group that is already getting a lot closer to the estimated total abroad. But then the following is said. Why isn't that registration appropriate? There may be changes. It can't be up-to-date. It may be that people have died, that people have automatically lost Dutch citizenship. I get all that. There are also non-Dutch residents in the Registration Non-Residents, who stay in the Netherlands for less than four months. But can we not get a much more accurate picture of the number of Dutch people abroad that we are talking about on the basis of this Registration Non-Residents? Because the voting weight, the voting value of Provincial State Members, is related to the number of inhabitants of the province. So then I think: this is actually the best variant. Then the extension is the basis chosen in the main letter: a permanent register of voters abroad. I get it, but to what extent does this register, this registration, not suffer from the same flaws? How do we know that someone still has the Dutchmanship in it if it is not always controlled? These are not answers I necessarily expect tonight, but they are important points of attention to deal with that law. Let's talk about Otjes' formula. The turnout rate among Dutch people abroad is high in all those elections for which they are already entitled to vote. I am referring to the European Parliament and the House of Representatives. The turnout in most provinces of the province is a lot lower. Because that is part of the formula chosen to determine the voting value, I wonder the following. What does it mean for the weight of the voice when the one develops in one direction, if it even rises among Dutch people abroad, for example, while it decreases further among Dutch people who do live in the Netherlands? How robust is that formula for that kind of development? I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Leijten's question, but with the opposite approach, I think. I fully agree with her that it needs to be clear in advance. In my view, this also calls for speed with the implementing law. So I would like to hear where this legislative process stands and when the Chamber can receive this law. Finally, I see the permanent registration of voters abroad as a kind of growth model. My question to the Minister is: what is she going to do next year, before the Provincial State elections, to increase the number of registered people in them? And what is she going to do to ensure that it is known to these people that they are hopefully going to wait for the lectures, especially if we are also entitled to vote for the electoral college, which is ultimately allowed to participate in the Senate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u6	Thank you. You have another interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u7	It has to do with Dutch citizenship, residence, of course. But it is also mainly about influence and participation in your environment, on the order of your country. We have had quite a discussion lately in the Netherlands about people who have dropped out. There are discussions about how the government disappeared from the country. There are fewer and fewer facilities. Fewer and fewer people recognize themselves in government, as part of them, or wonder if they can be part of it. There is growing distrust in the government, and possibly also in the elections. I would like to draw attention to the considerations we stand for, to the representation in this Chamber and to the representation and turnout in elections. Does Mr Snelter think that this bill is the right instrument for the problems we see when it comes to the state of democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u8	I think the actual observation is that it will not matter for the composition in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u9	Well, I'd like to talk about the representation in the First Chamber, but I always find it a little uncomfortable to talk about that. I'm talking about the state of democracy. I'm asking a pretty serious question about that. I read this bill and see the time and effort, especially of D66: people outside the Netherlands must have the right to vote for the First Chamber. It is totally incorrect in constitutional terms. The way it all got in is wrong. It's become that electoral college. I tried to explain. But when I look at the sense of people that democracy is theirs, that representation in the municipality, in the province, here and in the First Chamber is theirs. Then I look at the participation in elections, in which, in many cases, less than half comes to mind. Are we doing the right thing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u10	I think Mrs Leijten is creating a false contradiction. If she has read the other parts, she will see that the revision of the electoral system is at the top of my list. It is my ambition to change that, so that people themselves have more influence on the composition of this Chamber, but also on the municipal councils. So it is no contradiction that this will replace that. A lot of Dutch people abroad are also losing out on the policy that is being made here. I am in the process of drafting a bill on bank accounts for Dutch people abroad, for which the legislation here is simply not adequate. There are a lot of people who also just come back to the Netherlands and don't recognize the Netherlands anymore. So yes, there are also ways to give their influence. I think it is a false contradiction to say: Dutch people abroad, you have no right to co-determine how you are represented. Especially when the Constitution says that the States-General represents the entire Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u11	I am very sorry about what Mr Sneller is doing here. 'Cause I didn't say that, of course. We are not opposed to people who live abroad and who are Dutch citizens being able to vote in the elections. That is already possible, for the House of Representatives. We're also in favour of them being able to do that for the First Chamber. Only, then the position of the First Chamber is problematic. So I did not say that they should not have the right to vote. I do see the energy in this, while I see on the other hand that our democracy has been horribly eroded and that confidence in our democracy is also deteriorating. If it is about representation, about having influence, then I think we should take other problems more seriously than filling in an electoral college that is also unconstitutionally a misapprehension as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u12	That was a comment to Mr Sneller, who may still respond if he wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u13	Yes, also because I had discussions with Mr Van Raak during the previous period on the revision of the electoral system for the House of Representatives, which I really think can improve the representation of substance, as suggested by the Remkes State Commission. Mr Van Raak was at least sceptical about that review. So I'm very looking forward to handling that bill. I hope very much for the support of the SP for this, because I really think it can help solve some of the problems we see together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u14	Thank you, then I will go to the next speaker, Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. Tonight I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Arib of the Labour Party. I shall begin by welcoming the new Minister for Foreign Affairs; we have already made our acquaintance this week. I want to wish her good luck. I hope for a good cooperation here in the Chamber. The proposal before us is not just a law, but a constitutional change at second reading. A constitution is one of the most valuable for a democratic rule of law. It is therefore important that we also consider this second reading carefully, although my group and the PvdA voted in favour at first reading. The present legislative proposal provides for the Constitution to have a provision that also Dutch citizens who are non-residents, i.e. Dutch residents living abroad, will have indirect voting rights for the First Chamber through a so-called electoral college. This is similar to how this is regulated for voters in the BES islands. My group is in favour of this for two reasons: simply because of the fact that laws which we are discussing here in the Chamber and which are therefore also discussed in the First Chamber can affect the lives of Dutch people, even if they live abroad. In addition, it is logical for GroenLinks and the PvdA to have the right to vote in the Lower House if Dutch residents live abroad, they also have this indirectly for the Upper Chamber. This constitutional amendment thus provides for voting rights for Dutch citizens living abroad to have an influence on the composition of the First Chamber through an electoral college, but the proposal does not determine exactly how the voting value is determined. That would require a separate legislative amendment of the Tickets Act. Although this amendment of the constitution is not about this, we do read in the explanatory memorandum how the previous cabinet felt about this. My first question to the new minister is how the new cabinet stands in this. Does it agree, like its predecessors, that the voting value should be determined in accordance with the recommendations of the study that has been carried out? Mr Sneller has already mentioned this. Then another important point, which concerns the Dutch who live in the other countries of our Kingdom: Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. These Dutch people, unlike the Dutch who live in the Netherlands and the Dutch who live abroad, do not have the right to vote in the Lower House. Soon, when this constitutional change is adopted, they still have no influence on the composition of the First Chamber. I think that's a big loss. These Dutch people also benefit from good national legislation, good foreign policy and good defence policy, but they do not have the right to vote for the Second and First Chambers, the parliament that deals with these subjects as if it were a Kingdom Parliament. Now we are pleased to read in a passage in the government agreement that the democratic deficit in the Kingdom will be lifted by giving the Caribbean countries a proportional voice in proposals on national laws. That's nice, but it's not concrete yet. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what this proposal means in concrete terms and at what time we will be hearing more about it as a Chamber. In addition, I would like the Minister to give me the undertaking that such a further vote from the Caribbean countries will take a good look at the role of both the Second and the First Chambers. If we have a parliament that consists of two chambers, then the inhabitants of the other countries should also be able to influence both chambers of our parliament. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you, Mr Strolenberg. I see the subject of the VVD a bit fuller. Those Members are interested in this debate, but even more so in Mr Strolenberg's maiden speech, I'm guessing. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u17	Mr. Chairman. Last year was my election slogan: vote a liberal Drent in parliament. My personal campaign kicked off with the text: I want to work to restore trust in the government by connecting people, preferably in a digital way; working together. Well, here's the Liberal Drent in Parliament and that "together work" can start today. It is a privilege to have been a city council member for twelve years and to have been on a waterboard for seventeen years now to work with you at national level to bet on a better Netherlands. I deliberately say "better the Netherlands" because I am a rasoptimist. I think the Netherlands is a fantastic country. There is much that goes well here, but there is also a lot that is not going well. We sometimes place a little more emphasis on the latter and that is, of course, a pity in itself. That is why I use words like 'better', 'improve', 'innovating' and 'thinking in opportunities'. That is my motto: the basis is often good and what can be better? Anything can be better. There are plenty of opportunities. From that point of view, at the age of 18, I started an internet company in Hoogeveen. That's a great place to live in Drenthe. I was born and raised there. I started my business at a time when only a handful of Dutch companies had their own domain name. I was very interested in the technical possibilities. But I couldn't have thought back then that all these technical developments would have so much impact on our daily actions today. To this day, I like to look at these opportunities and get excited about new opportunities, especially when they make everyone better. When they asked me in Drenthe if I would like to run for Lower House, I still scratched behind the ears. Do I want this? Do I want this now? I had everything in order at home. I volunteered, I worked in business and I was a representative in local democracy, absolutely beautiful, but what would it be like in The Hague? What kind of atmosphere would rule there? Could I be a good representative of the people? I had a lot of reservations about it, but my personal situation may have crossed the line in order to be able to do so. First of all, the personal reasons. At the age of 17, I met my later wife Miranda. With her I have two fantastic daughters of 11 and 13 years old. I think they'd really like me to call them here. I also call Miranda a tribute, because I owe her a great deal. With her and with my daughters, I have experienced a special time in recent years. After 23 years, the situation changed a lot when I came out of the closet. That's what I've done with shame. I found it hard to take that step. This is quite special at a time when the Netherlands is at the forefront in the field of emancipation worldwide. Of course, something like that causes unrest and sadness, especially when you're in the middle of it. In the meantime we have found our path and we are very good with each other. I've found love again by now. That's different than I ever expected. In my area and also in my club the VVD I always felt at home and this was never an issue. At the VVD I always felt at home because equivalence there is one of the core values. People are equal, but not equal. We're all unique and so different. Everyone has the same right to freedom and opportunities. I became very much aware that as a national representative I could make the difference there too and could also make sure that no one in the Netherlands had to feel the same shame that I felt when I came out of the closet. Because only then can you develop optimally, openly express love and fill your life and celebrate in a way that really suits you. Then the crumbling confidence in politics as consideration. There's been political unrest. And perhaps there is more unrest in the country as far as politics is concerned, about how we deal with each other in politics, but also about the way in which measures are currently being taken that are not supported by everyone. Our political integrity is staggering. Even if we had the appearance against it, it would still be a wake-up call to do something with it. Six out of ten Dutch people no longer trust national politics. By comparison, a year earlier, that was four out of ten. Those are things that affect me. There is talk here of a new governance culture. I think it is a good thing that we are talking about this, but it is even better if we do something about it with each other. That's essential, if you ask me. That is simply necessary, also in order to continue to bind citizens to us. I am extremely motivated to work on this trust, among myself and here in The Hague, especially towards the citizens, because I am a representative of the people. I see it as an opportunity and a task for myself to commit myself to that. Over the last two months, I have walked around here and met various groups. I have noticed that there is a world other than sometimes visible on television or on social media, and that there are a lot of people in the Chamber, in this house, who deal with each other very decently and with mutual interest and respect. We can sometimes work together in very surprising combinations and file motions. Working together is sometimes giving each other things, but also making mistakes and admitting mistakes... will be the way to give substance to mutual trust, and we have to radiate that out. I believe that this contributes to confidence in government and democracy. Because if there is no more trust in democracy, where are we with the Netherlands? Will there still be people voting for the municipal elections in March? Or are the non-residents, the Dutch abroad, still going to vote indirectly for the Upper House or the Lower House, as we are discussing at the time of the constitutional change? Or do anti-democratic currents prevail? Is that the country we want? To sum up, I am pleased to be able to work as the spokesman for the Interior on behalf of the VVD in the coming period. I am certainly happy to work on trust in politics and government in general. I believe there is another way. I would like to conclude by calling for this to be done, above all, with each other, in a spirit of integrity and substance. It's the only way we can move forward together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u18	Thank you. But you have more, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u19	I've got more. I can see that I still have speaking time. Tonight there is a change in the Constitution. This makes it possible for every Dutchman abroad to exercise his influence on what is happening here in the Lower House. There are laws that affect those people. Mr Sneller has also indicated this. The VVD version, which also applies to D66, I think has been in favour of taking steps for years. It's nice that it's almost time. It is a matter of urgency; Mr Leijten has also indicated this. We would like to hear from the Minister about the timetable, especially if we want it to be set for the Provincial State elections of March 2023. As far as I am concerned, we are going to talk about voting values in the further elaboration and treatment of the Kieswet. It is a pity, by the way, that a lot of Dutch people, Mr Sneller, have already spoken about 800,000 people who are not registered. Some 90,000 people are registered with the city of The Hague. What could the Minister possibly do to ensure that this group grows? The VVD has also asked for voting abroad to be as simple as possible. Can the Minister indicate what this means, so that we can make voting for Dutch people abroad even easier? Another question of interest, also a bit along the lines of my digital background, about Internet voting for voters abroad. The VVD has already indicated its strong support for the digital technologies and their release. It wasn't safe enough at the time. Anyway, the technique doesn't stand still. There are also new experiences abroad. Without asking the Minister, in detail, about the state of the art, I would appreciate it if she could inform us about this, so that we might be able to take another step in 2022. As far as the VVD is concerned, we can simply agree to this amendment to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u20	Thank you and congratulations on your maiden speech. You may stand here. In that case, colleagues can also congratulate you. I would ask you all to take account of the 1.5 metres so that we can set an example. I'll suspend briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u21	I give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u22	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna start with the personalia. Of course, I do that in the right order of the state. So the first congratulations are for our new colleague Mr Strolenberg. I've listened to it with great pleasure. Of course, there was a cliff pendant in there. At first, he had reservations about parliamentary membership. He wondered: how is the atmosphere there? I thought he'd answer that. But wisely he was silent and a good politician must of course be able to remain silent from time to time. So he passed the first exam, I'd say. A maiden speech such as a maiden speech must be personal, political and yet say something about the present proposal. It's beautiful. Welcome aboard. You mentioned surprising combinations. That usually doesn't apply to my party, but you never know how the ball is going to roll over the next three years. Then, of course, congratulations to the Minister. This is her first debate here. Thank you for joining us. You have been given the most important portfolio in the stomach, namely the restoration of democracy. I can't imagine anything more important. Mr Strolenberg also said it: six out of ten Dutch people no longer have faith in politics. That should wake us all up. This minister will hopefully contribute to the return of confidence. I wish her every success. A difficult task, but its success is also the success of Dutch democracy. So I wish her nothing but good. More personalities. The importance of state law was, of course, underlined today by our commemoration of Ed van Thijn, a distant predecessor of this minister and one of the great post-war politicians and involved in major constitutional issues. And also today the death of Gert Schutte of the GPV, long the state-law conscience of the House of Representatives. As a member of the Election Council, I have been able to experience him several times. My group therefore recognizes both the greats of state law with due respect. This minister's baptism of fire tonight, with a real constitutional change. I'd say go ahead! There are ministers who start out more modestly, but this argues for her. This constitutional change is about creating an electoral college for Dutch people abroad, who in turn will elect the First Chamber. Now it's true: you live abroad and then you have no influence on the First Chamber. After all, who chooses the Senate, who chooses the First Chamber? These are the members of the Provincial States, the parliaments of the provinces. And you only vote for the Provincial States if you are resident in a province. "Resident," that's what it's all about. In my opinion, state law works best if it's simple, clear, logical. That a child can do the laundry, so to speak. That you're thinking, yes, of course. This emergency dressing isn't that. The members of the Provincial States elect the Senate. Because of this proposal, people who are not residents of the provinces are going to majority. That's weird. As far as I'm concerned, we have a First Chamber that will be abolished tomorrow, but it is good to have the sound of the provinces sounded in The Hague. Now people who don't live in a province have to go to the majority. It is a pity that this CDA Minister has to start with a proposal that so strongly reeks of D66, the party of the former Minister of the Interior. Mrs Ollongren launched this proposal and this Minister can finish it. D66 really wanted this. D66 is the party that openly states that the election result should not be recognised if the PVV wins the election. In that case, the Republic of Amsterdam must be declared. That was the anti-democratic sentiments of Mrs Ollongren, the minister's predecessor. This proposal for a constitutional change is a typical product of D66 in spirit. It comes from a typical cosmopolitan world view, the global ideal of the world citizen: people without roots, people without history, people who all speak English, EU nationals, the United Nations or the World Economic Forum. "Imagine there's no countries. It'sn't hard to do. Nothing to kill or die for and no religion too." All happy fighters of climate socialism, united on their way to the Valhalla of diversity and sustainability, with windmills and genderless solar panels everywhere. There are no limits in that state of salvation. Well, the borders of Ukraine are now suddenly very important, but the Netherlands no longer needs borders. Everyone's welcome to come in. Everyone's welcome. The whole of the Third World is allowed to come here, because we seem to owe them something. You'd say: you live abroad, fine; nice choice. I've also lived elsewhere for four years, but if you live somewhere else, you don't experience the consequences of your voting behaviour. You don't suffer from all those windmills, asylum seekers, money bounces, climate agreement, nitrogen billions, Rob Jetten et cetera. That's why it makes sense that you don't majority. This proposal is also a typical piece of D66 clientelism. In 2017, the largest party among people abroad was D66. Many expats work abroad at a club that also wants to undermine or rather abolish the national state, such as the European Union or the UN. These people, these expats, are not going to vote against their own jobs. The chicken with the golden eggs will not be slaughtered electoralally there. And indeed, what appears to be the case? At the last Lower House elections, 40% of foreign voters voted for the cosmopolitan parties par excellence, namely GroenLinks, Volt and D66. Ali B. is a typical CDA drummer. Apparently, he stands by the standards and values of the CDA. That is why he was paid and already active in that party's leader debate. I don't know if he'll be back from Dubai, but if he stays there, we can miss his voice as a toothache. Returned immigrants would now have an influence on the Senate. Given the popularity of Mr Erdogan among Turks and Dutch and therefore probably among Turks with a Dutch passport that have returned to Turkey, that is not something we are waiting for. Question to the Minister: does she agree with me? What needs to be done is very simple. The First Chamber must be abolished. It's completely useless. In addition, the Senate is also a gathering place of lobbyists, a good stain on the good name of the States-General anno 1464, a mockery for our Parliament. 120 years ago, the SDAP proposed replacing the Senate with the referendum. That's exactly what needs to be done. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u23	Thank you, Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u24	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, welcome to Mr Strolenberg. We have already worked together and we look forward to continuing cooperation. Thanks for the personal maiden speech, too. I am also looking forward to working with the Minister for the Interior and... yes, Kingdom relations; it is part of this! Mr. Chairman. There are proposals in which you get an ever better and warmer feeling: this is it; what a good thing this is! Yes, you think. Yeah, you think, "Here's the guy!" But I have to say that sometimes there are proposals that put the opposite into practice. That means you're gradually getting duffer, falling down and thinking, "Well, go ahead. Please, how did they make this up? Don't they see the big risks, the downsides? Do they not see the inconsistency, sometimes the inconsistency?" Mr. Chairman. I can't hurt my conscience. Let me be honest: this proposal unfortunately belongs to the latter type. I would have liked to have kept an enthusiastic story in the direction of the friends of D66 and the Minister, especially since this is her first proposal to be dealt with in the Chamber, but I am not getting out of it. The idea of a electoral college for Dutch residents staying outside the Netherlands may sound good, but the impact raises so many technical questions. It raises not only technical questions, but also questions about the system and the state of law. I would like to refer this point to the new Secretary of State. Can the obstacles we encounter along the way lead to a fundamental review or should the whole project continue as it is now? I would like an open answer to that. I would like to add the following question. Are there similar situations in other countries? How do they handle this? Mr. Chairman. The SGP thanks the government for its response. In any case, it clearly confirms that the current choice of not having a electoral college for this group is a completely legitimate choice. There is a fundamental difference between the election of the Second and First Chambers. The First Chamber is also much more closely related to a specific geographical area, chosen from the provinces, the Provincial States. There is a key question for the SGP. How justified is a electoral college for non-residents in relation to existing provinces and public bodies? In a recent response to the drafting of the bill, someone wrote: "Where the voting values of the other electoral colleges were of no importance, the electoral college of non-residents actually adds a small province." This is in line with what Mr Leijten said, namely that the province is the whole world. Now, as the Netherlands, we have a lot of foreign affairs and that is why we also have two foreign ministers. This was a joke of Luns, by the way. But to what extent does that do justice to the whole system? My simple question to the Minister is: what does the Minister think of that observation? Is it desirable that the very diverse group of non-residents, as Mr Bosma has described, should be given the weight of a small province? Is it purely state law that the weight of non-residents should be greater than that of public bodies, which do constitute a clearly defined unity of our country? In the Otjes report I read the following statement about the weight of non-residents: "We want the First Chamber impact of a Dutch voter or voter. giving voter abroad the same size as the impact of a Dutch voter or voter. voter in the Netherlands." The government follows that line, but can it explain why this would make sense? The interests of Dutch people abroad are usually much more limited than those of Dutch people who live in their country, the residents? And is it so natural to approach citizens who share a clear regional destiny, namely as residents of a province or a public body, the same as a collection of individuals scattered around the world, across all kinds of countries? Mr. Chairman. An electoral college for non-residents also seems difficult to fit into the political reality of the elections. For example, is listing of non-residents seriously workable and what lessons are there to draw from the experience with the elections in the Caribbean? According to the SGP, it does not have to be that all the political colours from the Dutch parliament come back exactly to the electoral college, but it is democratically necessary that there is genuine reflection and choice. What if it turns out that the model is failing at this point while the electoral college is now putting substantial weight on the scale? Before we proceed with a constitutional change here and anchor it in the constitution by actually amending the constitution with far-reaching consequences, we should actually experiment with this on a cautious scale. This bill is not ripe for the Constitution, I'll say. But right now... no, I'm not saying that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u25	Okay, thank you. I shall now turn to the last speaker from the Chamber: Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to the colleague of the VVD. I just said, you feel like you've been there a lot longer. I look forward to good cooperation, including with our minister. Mr. Chairman. Dutch nationality is very important, whether you live in the Netherlands or abroad. It is therefore a very logical idea that the Dutchmanship implies that you can vote not only for the Lower House, but also for the Upper Chamber. A whole number of Dutch people living abroad are still strongly linked to the Netherlands. I noticed that during the Lower House elections, for example. Several Dutch people abroad took the trouble to send me an e-mail to wish me luck, people who thought it was important that someone from their region had made themselves available. Often this mail was accompanied by beautiful memories of the Peel, or of Brabant, and the question: whose gang were you from? That shows the connection and the interest. In doing so, distances are also bridged at that time. Our party is a member party, and I'm proud of that. I also think it is important that our Members have a say. We give a membership value by, for example, allowing our Members to table resolutions. On 2 June 2018, the CDA Party Congress adopted a resolution that states "to ensure that the Election Act and, if necessary, the Constitution are amended as soon as possible, so that all other Dutch voters outside the Netherlands are able to vote for the elections of the First Chamber." The proposal before us is in line with this resolution. The proposal creates the constitutional frameworks for an electoral college for Dutch people abroad. We therefore agree with the proposal that the voice of Dutch people abroad should be taken into account in the election of the First Chamber. It has already been discussed: the further elaboration of the electoral college will take place by amending the Election Act. That's what we'll be talking about when that bill comes to the Chamber. The Minister has already outlined the main points in the letter which she sent us at the same time as the note on the report on this constitutional change. The most important point for us is: how will the voting value of the members of the new electoral college be determined? Does a Dutchman abroad have the same influence on the composition of the First Chamber as a resident of North Holland, Brabant or Caribbean Netherlands? Can the Minister indicate how she looks at the chosen formula? And does she believe that it does justice to the voice of Dutch people abroad in the most honest way possible? Finally, Mr President. This too has been mentioned several times: what is the further planning of the Implementing Act? The proposal to amend the Kieswet was brought before the Council of State in December. In the main letter, the Minister wrote that the aim is that the election of the electoral college should take place for the first time in 2023, prior to the First Chamber elections in that year. Is that still feasible? Is it feasible for the authorities concerned and for the political parties, and does the Minister have a route-time table for this operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u27	Thank you. Then I shall suspend the sitting for fifteen minutes and resume at 7:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u28	We are going to answer the cabinet side by the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u29	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Strolenberg on his maiden speech. A liberal Drent in parliament, who strives for a better Netherlands. It's nice how you bring your personal life story of your wife Miranda, your children and the newly found love to this parliament. As Mr Bosma has just said, the intertwinedness of the content, the personal and your mission is very exciting to hear. I wish you every success in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Several Members have already indicated: we are talking today about a constitutional proposal. As Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations with your Chamber, it is quite extraordinary to be the first to speak about the Constitution. It is our basic constitutional document. It is the legal basis for the establishment of our State and also standards the legal relationship between state institutions and the inhabitants of the Netherlands. What also emerged beautifully in various speeches: the Constitution deserves respect, cherishment and careful handling. The Constitutional proposal we are debating today is actually one of a whole series of proposals pending before the Chamber. I'll take a look at Mr. Bishop. I do not know whether it has happened much more often in history, but seven other proposals are currently waiting for a second reading, both government proposals and own-initiative proposals. There are therefore no less than eight constitutional proposals in this Chamber at second reading. I would like to highlight how special this is, because it has not actually happened since the general constitutional reform in 1983. The constitutional proposal that we are indeed going to discuss today is the election of the First Chamber. The members of the House of Representatives have asked several questions about this. To answer these questions as well as possible, I made cubes. I don't know what these members of the Chamber value most, but I thought I'd start with the cubes and see if it works. First of all, the background to the constitutional revision, the implementing law and the timetable for it, the scope of Dutch citizens abroad, the voting valuation and the organisation of elections and the electoral college. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to this Constitutional proposal and its basis, we can say that the Dutch who live abroad cannot currently influence the composition of the Supreme Court. They do not live in a province or in the Caribbean Netherlands, while the members of the First Chamber are currently elected by the members of the Provincial States and the electoral colleges in the Caribbean public bodies. But those same Dutch people abroad can vote for the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. The government, including the previous government, finds it unbalanced that these Dutch may have an influence on the Lower House and the European Parliament, but have no influence on the composition of the Upper Chamber. This bill removes this imbalance. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Leijten asks: how is this proposal compatible with the Constitution? It is, in itself, correct, I say to Mrs Leijten, that in the past the constitutionalist has seen no reason to influence the composition of the First Chamber of the Netherlands. At the same time, the Constitution is not unchangeable. Mrs Leijten also knows this as the initiator of the constitutional proposal on the referendum. If the constitutionalist is also of the opinion that an amendment to the Constitution has been designated, then the constitutionalist may also decide to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop, whom I appreciate that he greeted me with such enthusiasm, but who started this debate at the same time with great disappointment, asks: are there similar situations showing how other countries deal with such a fundamental review? This is what I am saying to Mr Bishop. I have just indicated the reasons why this government also considers it important to pursue this draft constitution. When it comes to the comparison of law, the question is whether there are similar situations. As far as I know, there are no similar situations. At the same time, we have not done a thorough investigation into this either. However, as has just been pointed out, the basis for this is really the proportionality of choosing the First Chamber, the Second Chamber and the European Parliament. Mr Bishop's question was also: what about the non-residents in relation to existing provinces and public bodies? The Constitutional proposal and the intention to implement it for that purpose will be submitted to the House of Representatives for a further implementing proposal, which is really intended to give the Dutch who live abroad as proportionate as possible influence on the composition of the First Chamber. It is clear that any form and extent of influence of this category of Dutch will lead to a relatively smaller influence of the inhabitants of the provinces and Caribbean public bodies on the composition of the First Chamber. I really emphasise the word "relative" and the word "something," because it is only a limited group of Dutch people. In this respect, the proposal is also in line with the rules governing the election of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. As I mentioned earlier, Dutch people abroad have influence there as well. That is why I do not think it is disproportionate that this is also the case in the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. Several Members, both Mrs Leijten and Mr Bishop, indicated: what about this relative weight? Is there going to be a small province? You can look at that comparison with the provinces in different ways. The proposal does not introduce a new "abroad province" but does give non-residents a degree of influence that could be compared to a small province. In the precise interpretation of this, it is a quest to arrive at as balanced and proportionate a determination as possible of the voting weight as compared to the voting weight of Provincial States and to the voting weight of the electoral colleges. I would like to say to these Members of the Chamber that the implementing legislation will, of course, soon be the place to continue the discussion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of questions have also been asked with the aim of: those Dutch abroad have much less involvement in Dutch society than the Dutch who live in the Netherlands? With this proposal for a Constitution and the draft implementing law, we are looking for maximum proportionality, as much as is the case, for example, with the election of the House of Representatives. As I have just said, a voice from abroad counts no other than a voice from the Netherlands. It would be unbalanced if we chose a different course of action in the case of the First Chamber than in the case of the Second Chamber. If you would do it very consistently, then you should not allow Dutch people who do not live in the Netherlands, but who live abroad, to elect members of the House of Representatives. That is, as you can imagine, not the way I would like to go as a minister. Then I'll get to the second block. This is about implementing legislation and the timetable. Mrs Leijten, Mr Sneller, Mr Strolenberg and Mrs Van Dijk asked the question: what is the planned timetable for legislation? Several members of this Chamber indicated that we requested the opinion of the Council of State in December. We hope to get that advice from the Council of State as soon as possible, so that we can make full speed to take the follow-up steps and offer the bill to the House of Representatives. We have counted well back in the time when the deadline is when we must have dealt with the bill for implementation here in the Lower House as well as in the Upper Chamber. That's September 1st, 2022. That is a very ambitious timetable. 1 September 2022, I say to Mrs Leijten. I realize that this planning is very ambitious. That means for me as a minister that if I have the opinion of the Council of State, I will take it to the House of Representatives as soon as possible. This means, for the treatment in both Chambers, that there is indeed a tight timetable to do so, but at least I am committed to making that possible. I therefore hope that we will be able to deal with the legislative proposal soon in the Chambers, but it is a very ambitious timetable. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks, also on behalf of Mrs Arib van de PvdA, asked about the interpretation of the passage in the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement, on the resolution of the democratic deficit in the Kingdom. It is true what Mrs Bromet said. A passage has been included on the removal of the democratic deficit in the decision-making process on proposals for state law. In concrete terms, it has been agreed that I should just quote 'give room for a proportional voice of the Caribbean countries'. I can tell Mrs Bromet that that part is not in my portfolio, but in that of the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitalisation. It will inform the Chamber of how the Cabinet intends to implement this. As Mrs Bromet and Mrs Arib have asked this question, I would, of course, like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that this is at least a matter for some parties and that they are looking forward to working out how they intend to do it in what period. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions about the voting value and how it will be determined. It is good what Mr Sneller said. He said: "This is the constitutional review. It's good to look forward to what that's going to look like." I will try to do so as well as possible, but as Mr Sneller pointed out, this bill for implementation is still before this Chamber. Then there is a broad opportunity to ask in-depth questions and see if the Chamber can agree with the work I have in mind. First of all, of course, the question is whether the Council of State is in fact in agreement with the effects that we now have in mind. Mrs Van Dijk asked: how can a fair voting value be established? The starting point for calculating the voting value of the electoral college is that it fits as much as possible with the existing calculation of the voting value of the Provincial States and the electoral colleges in the Caribbean Netherlands. The one-to-one method of calculation is not possible, as it is not exactly known how many Dutch live outside the Netherlands. I will come back to the questions about this later. The largest possible group of non-residents of the Netherlands is the number of registered voters. That is why the proposal that we have now submitted to the Council of State includes this group in determining the voting value of the electoral college. Then there is still an inequality about this issue, because the vote value of Provincial States and the electoral colleges in the Caribbean Netherlands is counted with all inhabitants. Therefore, a correction factor is also applied in the voting value determination. This correction factor consists of the ratio between the number of inhabitants of the European and Caribbean Netherlands divided by the number of voters for the elections of Provincial States and the electoral colleges in the Caribbean Netherlands. If you translate that practically, that's about 80,000 registered voters abroad. This would result in an equal vote value for the electoral college and the voting value for a province with 80,000 inhabitants. I realize that I'm flying through it now, but I'm doing so knowing that this comes back explicitly in a whole bill. At the same time, Mrs Bromet asked me whether I could agree with this line of reasoning. She asked me to take this further. My answer is based on the research done by Mr Otjes. As I have just explained in my explanation, I support the choice made to determine the voting value. I am, of course, waiting for the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, but I am continuing to do so until now. How robust is that then, Mr Sneller asked. The voting value is calculated on the basis of the number of voters outside the Netherlands. This number may vary per election. If the number of registered voters falls, the voting value of the electoral college will also be reduced. This is in line with the voting value of a province that depends on the number of inhabitants in that province. So it's breathing. For the other elections for which the electorate has the right to vote abroad, about 90,000 voters are registered. It is likely that at least some of those voters will also vote for the electoral college. It is particularly important that the method used is understood, known and clearly laid down, so that one knows what the provision is like. Mr Sneller also asks: why do you not use the Registration Non Residents and why do you choose to do it with registered voters? As Mr Sneller also knows, the Registration Non Residents is part of the Basic Registration Persons. Not every Dutchman living abroad is in the RNI. There are also Dutch people living abroad who are born abroad and do not appear in the Registration Non Residents. We don't really know how many there are. When Dutch people leave abroad and unsubscribe from the Basic Registration Persons, they become part of the RNI. But if they move again over time, it is again the responsibility of those Dutch to change their address in the Registration Non Residents. In addition, we often have no idea of the loss of Dutch citizenship or death. That doesn't end up in the RNI either. So we really depend on keeping it up-to-date by the Social Insurance Bank, the UWV, the Tax Administration or by the people themselves. So there is also no good, stable whole that we can assume. In the bill that we intend to offer to the House of Representatives, the preference is that we use the registered voters. Then don't run into the same flaws, Mr. Sneller asked. The voters registered in that register really need a copy of the identity card when returning a letter vote. This requires an active action. It is important that it is also valid on the day of the candidacy. The same applies to nationality. This means that there is an active act attached to it that is something different from the RNI. I think it's an assignment to communicate clearly to those who are registered. That's the group you're sure is interested in voting. We need to keep these people up-to-date and remind them of the fact that they have to pass on their change of address. These are people who have actively registered themselves as voters. We also looked at the last Lower House elections. The municipality of The Hague has received more than 1,800 letter vouchers, because the address was incorrect. The municipality of The Hague could use the possibility to send the replacement letter ballot by e-mail. So you can see that you also have an active attention to the other system. The RNI doesn't know anything like that. Those are two reasons why at least our consideration at the moment is to use that group and not the RNI, because there are still more objections to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u30	I see that raises a question for Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u31	Yeah, with the risk that we're gonna have that discussion. The principle of proportional representation is, in my view, also leading the way in which it is being worked out in a moment's time. The Minister knows that there are more than half a million Dutch people living abroad and we are going for a model of which we know the Minister himself says that the representation in it is similar to that of a province of 80,000. That doesn't fit the proportional representation requirement, would you say? I understand all the flaws. But if it requires an active act to vote, then you can also use the RNI. After all, this active action by the electorate must take place, so that you know that the electorate is still alive and that that nationality is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u32	It is also important to look at the voting valuation later, because it will, of course, also work out proportionality. You can see from the RNI I indicated earlier that there are many more uncertainties about what the composition of that group is. It is therefore better to start from a group that is closely defined and that has registered itself, where it is known that they are Dutch, than to use a very large pond in which there are really a number of uncertainties. We do not always see whether these people have died, and people may have moved or lost the Dutchmanship. The use of this electoral method is therefore a much more targeted approach than the RNI. This is what makes us a choice that we have now chosen, at least in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u33	Finally. I would also like the Minister to consider how that relates to this proportionality, because it is certainly a very limited pond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u34	However, it is also corrected for the fact that it is a relatively small pond, so that the pond is ultimately proportional to the effect it has on the value of the voting system in relation to all the other provinces and to the electoral colleges that we have. So it keeps each other in balance eventually. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I see the importance of further in-depth supporting and explaining in the legislative proposal why this choice has been made. I also look forward to doing so. I would also like to come to Mr Sneller's point, which says that we really need to do something to increase that pond and to actively ensure that people also want to vote from abroad. The first thing we have done in recent years is to introduce a permanent registration. Since 2017, voters abroad only have to register once and not again at every election. That's a good step. That also makes it more accessible. During the introduction of the permanent registration, all Dutch people whose addresses were known abroad were also registered with the request to register. That's what we do at other times. The municipality of The Hague, which is responsible for the registration of voters abroad in accordance with the Kieswet, also publishes the registration possibilities in various ways, such as voting from the Netherlands.nl via its own website, advertisements on social media, emigration grants and wherever possible also via associations of Dutch citizens abroad. In my view, in the context of implementing legislation, especially when we are going to deal with it, we should also look closely at how we can make an extra effort to call on people to register. So I could promise Mr Sneller that I will return to how we can give an extra boost to this proposal when I submit it. Then the organisation of elections and the electoral college. Mr Strolenberg asked me to comment on the possibilities for Internet voting for voters abroad. That is a long discussion in this Chamber, as I know from tradition. In addition to the opportunities mentioned by Mr Strolenberg, the previous cabinet has already pointed out the risks of digitalisation. And those risks have also increased compared to previous years. You wouldn't want the election process to become more vulnerable by introducing digital voices. Of course, we keep a close eye on developments in this area, but also a recent study by the Belgian government shows that Internet voices are not as safe as voting in the classic way, namely with pencil and paper. This means that at least at the moment we do not have any initiatives to enable Internet votes. Safety guarantees are not yet sufficient and, moreover, the transparency and accountability of the process cannot yet be sufficiently guaranteed. In addition, we are dealing with a budget that we do not yet have the funds for. At the same time, we must look at the possibilities for renewal, as Mr Strolenberg himself pointed out. The moment we see developments that are more positive, we keep a close eye on them to see if we can further improve the electoral process on parts. Mrs Leijten asked: how can you stand for the electoral college as a party or as a candidate? I shall come back to that in the implementing legislation. We will then in fact simply align ourselves with the existing procedures for the Election Act, so that the nomination for the Election College can be as much as possible in the same way as possible. It is important that there should also be awareness of this. Mrs Leijten asks: but what if not all the places are filled in? That does indeed mean that one vote less can be cast by the electoral college. Is that a unique situation? No. It is not a desirable situation, but it is now also happening that in the Provincial States not all seats have been taken, so one cannot all be a vote either. At the same time, it will of course be up to individual candidates and political parties to work together to ensure that the electoral college really gets on its feet. Can the electorate for the electoral college give non-residents a power of attorney, like a voter for the Provincial States? That actually precedes the legislation. My proposal in the implementing law will be submitted to the Council of State's Consultative Section for an opinion that a voter in the Netherlands cannot be given a power of attorney for the election of the electoral college. I would like to explain this in advance. This would also mean organising physical polling stations throughout the Netherlands. That would be a huge burden on implementation. In this sense, I want to make a real commitment to a performance that can pass the test of practice. Mr. Chairman. What if it turns out that the electoral college is failing in terms of reflection and choice, while it is still a substantial weight? I assume that smaller political groups will also be able to stand as candidates. So we will choose the size of the electoral college in such a way that smaller political groups can also be elected. That is something that I really want to take into account when designing the electoral college. Finally, Mrs Leijten asked: will The Hague take up this long-term? I also say to Mrs Leijten: The Hague is, of course, holding several elections and is extremely competent in doing so. So I have every confidence that The Hague will pick that up in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma asked: what do you think of defending a D66 proposal? That is, of course, a sharp question from Mr Bosma, but it is a proposal that the previous cabinet has already put forward and that the present cabinet has already put forward. We will at least restore an imbalance in the electoral process. The First and Second Chambers are the shared legislative power of this country. We ensure that a voter who has Dutch nationality abroad can vote not only at the Lower House, as it does now, so on a part of the legislative power, but also at the First Chamber, the other part of the legislative power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u35	Thank you. I see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u36	I think the Minister misinterpreted my question about the power of attorney. It's also about twice a power of attorney in the execution letter. That's when you cast your vote at that electoral college, non-residents. But I was talking about the moment that the electoral college elects non-residents to the First Chamber. Then all those people from the province abroad have to come to the Netherlands to vote in the Netherlands. But if you can't do that, you can also be authorized. Then how do we prevent one person from being authorised by all the others and then cast that vote, which actually means that election is done by one person? Or does the Minister say: if so, is that a good form? That was actually my question. Because as far as I know, that's not possible in the Provincial States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u37	This is an excellent part of the legislative proposal for implementation. That's what we're just working on. We have included for the authorisation a provision that you can indeed give a proxy to another candidate. But it's a good question whether or not you can do it infinitely. I will go back to implementing legislation on whether or not there should be restrictions, and what are the reasons for that. If I understand Mrs Leijten correctly, she also says that it cannot be that such an electoral college eventually becomes an empty body where one person travels to The Hague and the rest is not there. I hear Mrs Leijten saying that this could be done. I think it would be very good to look into that more closely. I do not think that this article has exactly been drawn up, but I can come back to that later, depending on whether we have a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u38	I'll take a look at Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u40	As far as I am concerned, the Minister may come back to the implementing law, but this shows how cumbersome the situation is. D66's election slogan was that every Dutchman abroad can vote for the First Chamber, while every Dutchman in the Netherlands can't even vote for the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u41	In any case, Mrs Leijten has made it clear that she is looking at this bill in a different way. I just took my notes. We're aiming at one power of attorney now. I expect this to satisfy Mrs Leijten's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u42	Thank you. That was the Minister's term. This goes back to the Council of State and comes back to the Chamber in a bill. Let me look at the Members to see if there is still a need for a second term. No? There is still a call for a final word, but I think this was it. I thank the Members, I thank the Minister, I thank the Registry and the messengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-25-tweedekamer-16.u43	We're going to vote next Tuesday.
