ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law by Mrs Klaver and Mrs Ouwehand amending the Environmental Policy Act and the Economic Crimes Act in connection with the introduction of a ban on fireworks for consumers, Section 35386. I would like to welcome the initiators. It's always nice to see MPs taking advantage of the right of initiative. Mrs Ouwehand has done so twice before and Mr Klaver has done so for the fifth time now. In that sense, there is a lot of experience in subject-K. But of course they couldn't have done it without their supporters. These are Elisabeth Hengeveld and Peter van Dijk from the GroenLinksgroep (Green Left Group) and Rosalie Bunnik and Sebastiaan van Pruissen from the Party for Animals; also welcome. The advisors of the House of Representatives are also present in Vak-K: the Minister of Justice and Security and the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State. You're very welcome. They will therefore act as advisers to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. We will plan the rest of the legal process in good consultation with the initiators. It's a legal procedure. That means we're more free with the number of interruptions. If you keep it short and concise, everyone will be properly addressed. This is how we honour the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Burning off fireworks is a beautiful Dutch tradition, which threatens to be taken away by various left-wing parties. Who doesn't have nice memories of lighting flares on New Year's Eve, while the kids light stars and gaze at the exploding sky? This bill takes away this freedom and this happiness, filed by parties who want the State to take care of everything for us and protect us from all risks. And that's when there's de facto a firework ban already in place. Fireworks may only be set off at designated times, during New Year's Night between 6:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. And from 2020 there will even be a ban on category F3 fireworks. Moreover, there was a total fireworks ban in 2020 and 2021 due to the dystopian and nonsensical corona measures. Moreover, there is an incredible amount of illegal fireworks from Belgium and Germany that are being traded in our country and are being turned off. The government maintains almost nothing in the Netherlands. The fireworks are not maintained, the ban on F3 fireworks is not maintained, and we are not doing anything about the dangerous, illegal fireworks from the surrounding countries. The advice of BVNL would be: first, make sure you maintain the current rules before you try to ban our own cozy fireworks. The failure of the government must not lead to the death of the entire fireworks industry. My question to the initiators is therefore the following. Why didn't you just submit an own-initiative paper on stricter enforcement, on more police, on stricter penalties and on a higher chance of getting caught? Mr. Chairman. During the turn of the year, when there was a total fireworks ban, a record of illegal fireworks was seized, according to the police. 11 million Dutch people indicated that they see fireworks as part of our cultural identity. The Dutch want to keep lighting fireworks and they are willing to import this illegally. It takes a lot of capacity from the police and inspection services to keep illegal fireworks outside the Netherlands. How do the applicants intend to limit illegal trafficking? Do the proposers agree with BVNL that enforcement capacity can be better used to reduce the number of incidents involving consumer fireworks at the turn of the year? The pressure on the municipality would also be increased unnecessarily in the event of a full ban on fireworks. The financial situation of many municipalities is already worrying and in the meantime, according to the proposers, the organisation of fireworks shows by municipalities is the alternative. However, the legislative proposal does not clarify the costs involved. Can the proposers clarify this? How feasible are these municipal fireworks shows at all? In practice, in large municipalities fireworks shows in size will not be sufficient to replace the lighting of fireworks by consumers, according to the Dutch Event Fireworks Association. It will be no more than a bitchish and boring alternative that no longer has any relationship with our beautiful fireworks tradition. I'm glad you're laughing. It would be worse if I started crying. Let's keep laughing. Mr. Chairman. BVNL has not only practical but also fundamental objections to the proposal. BVNL stands for the freedom of the individual, the freedom to decide whether we take a risk or not, of course, with respect for the general interest. Unfortunately, in the Netherlands there is a murky collectivist wind blowing, in which the freedom of the individual is sacrificed for the common good. But a ban on fireworks does not serve the public interest, as suggested by the initiators. No, these parties want to limit our freedom to organise our own lives even further. But it's up to us to decide how to blow up the new year. Fireworks is and remains a part of Dutch culture. That is our common interest. Mr. Chairman. Unlike the initiators, BVNL has an eye for entrepreneurs. A ban on fireworks is the blow to the fireworks industry, for entrepreneurs who have been victims of the bans on fireworks for two years in a row during the psychotic corona episode, and for 200,000 entrepreneurs who are technically bankrupt and will soon fall down. What about reality? The fireworks were bought abroad and Dutch companies missed their turnover and income. A total ban is detrimental to the survival of these companies, companies that have incredibly invested in safety and information in the Netherlands. At the same time, the bill leads to illegal trade, heavier fireworks and unsafe storage, according to the industry. They wonder whether the initiators are aware that the positive developments and investments made by entrepreneurs are being thrown into the trash. I'd like a response from the initiators. BVNL therefore calls on everyone to buy fireworks from entrepreneurs this year, such as at Vruurwijkmania in Wierden, Grootvelkureur in Capelle aan den IJssel, the Fireworks specialist in Amsterdam, Koningsdal Fireworks in Utrecht, the Fireworks Baron in Zwolle, Makkelie Fireworks in Haarlem and Evelien van Witte Vruurkuren in Eemnes. The arguments put forward by the authors regarding incidents and nuisances are extremely lean. Of the 2 million who report to the emergency services every year, 385 are fireworks related. We know that if you deduct from that the injury caused by illegal and recently banned fireworks, there really is hardly any injury left. Moreover, the amount of damage from the previous turn of the year is comparable to that from last year's changes, when there was no ban on fireworks. The ban on fireworks has thus become an outright pacifier. And with a total ban on fireworks, you won't find vandals. It cannot be that the good should suffer from the evil. BVNL therefore advocates investing in police, enforcement and care. The previous Cabinets have made structural cuts in these sectors. That's the real problem. In short, let's solve the real problems rather than create more and, and passerby, destroy our fireworks tradition and the fireworks industry. In conclusion. During the coronas scandal, there was a firework ban. Fortunately, the whole of the Netherlands had that ban on its boot. With a great gesture of protest we have shown that we did not let this beautiful tradition be taken away by a patronizing State that wants to castrate us in a rubber tile paradise. The fireworks during New Year's Eve 2021 were more beautiful and grander than ever. It was a wonderful signal to the out of control government and it showed that we never let our fireworks be taken away. BVNL will therefore vote against this bill in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then we will listen to Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. It feels a little awkward to talk about old and new now, in June, in summer, in this time of year. But to rule is to see ahead, and to see ahead is what the proposers have done. I would like to thank the proposers and their staff very much for this initiative law. Such a law is not one-two-three written; I have seen how much time has been put into it. I read in the law that the proposers have the fervent wish for a nice and peaceful year-end. No one will be surprised that my group shares this wish. Since its founding, the Party for Animals has advocated a safe old and new for humans and animals. The turn of the year is accompanied by a number of beautiful traditions. We get together with friends, with family. We're eating oil balls. We're having apple beignets. I always choose nonnevotten myself. That is a typical Sittard delicacy that is eaten with old and new and with carnival. I see Mr Knops laughing; he knows it too. Millions of people are watching one of the New Year's conferences. We're counting down to New Year's. We wish our neighbors on the street happy New Year. We're drinking bubbles. We're celebrating. By far the majority of Dutch celebrate that party completely peacefully. But for a large group of Dutch people old and new is not a fun party at all. I myself know a number: people with respiratory problems such as asthma, people who literally stick windows and doors in the house days in advance, who on New Year's Eve watch with fear and trembling when the fireworks start, because they really have problems with their lungs. They do everything to stop the fine dust from the fireworks, but they never do; it penetrates everywhere. There are people with pets who are completely panicked by the banging, by the whistling, by the gesis of fireworks. But also for cops, firefighters, paramedics, people who work in the ER and ophthalmologists is old and new not a party. It means a lot of work. It means a lot of stress and too often, too often, confrontations with violence. It's not a happy new year. First of all, I would like to point out an important liberal principle: the freedom of one stop where the freedom of the other begins. I would even like to tighten that up: the freedom of one ends where the security of the other is at stake. Could the proposers reflect on that further? Mr. Chairman. We all know the images of people who have been seriously injured after a fireworks incident, sometimes due to carelessness but often also as an unsuspecting bystander. Of the more than 1,000 wounded who fall every year by fireworks in the Netherlands, half are bystanders. A large proportion of them are under 20 years of age. They are often children, children who are drawn after old and new for their lives. Also for animals is old and new not a good time. Cats and dogs experience a lot of fear and stress because of all that banging violence. Members of parliament who own their own pets will recognize that. I don't have to explain to them what old and new looks like: vibrating, terrified pets, for hours. Cats that run from the sound and from the flashes, and sometimes only come back after days, when they already come back, because there are also a few dozen animals that don't come back at all every year. Dogs that dive under the couch scared to death. Some dog lovers leave with old and new even abroad or a Wadden Island to get away from the bang. But not everyone can afford that. And not everyone wants to take their pet to a cottage on a holiday park or to a Wadden Island or abroad, just to get rid of the fireworks. Of course, the aid workers also have to deal with this every year. I once spoke to an E.R. employee who said: it would be so nice to celebrate some time old and new with my family. Then there is the question: how long do we think this is acceptable? Society is already quite out of it: a majority of the Dutch or the municipalities want to get rid of fireworks, wants a total ban on fireworks. For the past two years, we've had a temporary ban on corona. At the time, the number of injuries was significantly lower than in previous year's changes. 40% and 70% less injured in recent years; that's quite a lot. More and more municipalities, also in view of this positive experience, opt for a safe old and new and introduce local bans on fireworks. But these municipalities say immediately: we only introduce these local bans on fireworks because it is our only instrument; come up with a national ban, because that is ultimately much easier to enforce. The Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten investigated the basis for such a national ban on fireworks. This showed very broad support for such a firework ban: two thirds of the Dutch municipalities are in favour. Politically, that actually makes a lot of sense. It enhances clarity for entrepreneurs and citizens, increases safety, relieves pressure on care and makes enforcement much easier. The latter, which makes enforcement easier, is not something only the Party for Animals and the congregations say. That's what the police themselves say every time. Today there was an article in the NRC in which the director of the Rotterdam-Rhinmond security region, on behalf of all his fellow directors from the 25 security regions, expressed full support for the bill we are debating. According to him, all attempts to stop the fireworks miserable with old and new have failed. Fireworks glasses, a ban on heavy fireworks; according to the director of the security region, it has just failed. The Safety Council also calls for a total ban on fireworks. Can the Minister for Justice and Security confirm that both the police and the security regions and the Security Council say from the point of view of enforcement and security that a total ban is ultimately easier to enforce, thus reducing the need for enforcers in the long term? I would also like to refer to the question of how heavy the cabinet weighs these advices of the Security Council, the security regions and the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Mr. Chairman. I come to the reasons for banning consumer fireworks from the point of view of safety for humans and animals. I'm talking, for example, about decorative fireworks. That sounds very innocent, but unfortunately it's not. About half of all injuries and all injuries, especially eye injury, are caused by decorative fireworks. This also leads to wounded fireworks and pressure on care. Can the Minister of Justice and Security confirm that decorative fireworks, both before and during corona, have led to a significant proportion of the fireworks wounds in recent years? Every year, the turn of the year, the police, the fire department, doctors and paramedics are asking for a great deal of work. When the Chamber agrees to this bill, it is expected that the reduction in the number of wounded will continue during old and new periods. This also means less use of aid workers, less pressure on the first aid and less burden on the entire Dutch healthcare system, because of all the care that needs to be provided to the victims. Finally, Mr President. The Animal Party supports the efforts of the proposers, who aim at a safe and pleasant turn of the year for everyone, a turn of the year where virtually all traditions are preserved. At the beginning of my story I listed some of those traditions. One of those traditions I would like to mention again, the tradition of going out to the streets around midnight to wish your neighbors the best for the new year. The tradition of connecting with your family, friends, neighbors and the neighborhood is perhaps the most important tradition. But what I see around me is that people who don't have fireworks become more reluctant to go out, just because of the fireworks. I've got that myself. I'd rather wait till the fireworks blast is over before I go out or I'm not going at all. I'm not alone in that. This threatens to destroy a tradition. Fireworks no longer connect, but create distance. It keeps people inside. I think the New Year's is a wonderful party. It is my commitment and my group's commitment that it will be a great party for everyone, in which anyone who wants and can go out on the streets to wish the neighbors happy New Year, and in which the aid workers can also participate in a glass of bubbles, whether with alcohol or not, and with oil balls. Although I personally prefer non-votes, and perhaps that also applies to Mrs Heijnen and Mr Knops. Toasting with your loved ones and friends and ultimately everyone safe at home. Let's make what's the most dangerous night of the year, the most beautiful night of the year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Then we will listen to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my sincere congratulations, my sincere appreciation to Mr Klaver and Mrs Ouwehand, the initiators of this law, but, of course, especially to the policy-makers behind it, because I know that most of the work has come on your shoulders. I see Peter van Dijk among others sitting there, with whom I worked on all kinds of topics many years ago. It's just a lot of work. It is essential parliamentary work to make such a law, so my sincere appreciation for that. I would also like to congratulate the authors on their letter of amendment. We will not have a major political debate on this, but the technical nature of a law is, of course, important. In the written round, the SP had asked whether the legal solution was initially a bit ugly. It was proposed to include a new article in the Environmental Management Act, which does not say that there is a ban but that the Minister can designate professionals for whom it is allowed to firework. But now it is much clearer to propose a ban in the law, as the proposers want. I think that is better legally, because we need to make clear laws here. In this sense, the initiators have succeeded. That was the law-making side of the matter. I must, of course, also make a substantive and political assessment. It is a little less positive, but I can see why this proposal is there. We have a problem in the Netherlands with mainly young men who cannot control themselves. We see it around football matches and as tensions in society grow, as at the time of curfew. But we also see it at parties, like every year with old and new. We see riots, destruction, violence, also against aid workers, and fireworks. No party, and therefore not the turn of the year, should be an excuse to destroy business and attack aid workers. It's absurd that cops, firefighters and paramedics stand out on the night of old and new terrors. Don't touch our paramedics. The same applies to goods from other people or from the community. You're gonna have to deal with that That is what I advocate in many other debates. But all this isn't really about this bill. At least it doesn't end this kind of shit in my eyes. It is only about allowing or not allowing the remaining consumer fireworks, which is not very much anymore. For the rules on legal consumer fireworks have already been tightened up in recent years: selling and cutting times are limited, Roman candles are banned, and two years ago, in 2020, flares and fireworks are also prohibited. That was the fireworks with which relatively many accidents happen and with which, for example, workers were thrown and shot. There is therefore already a limited ban on consumer fireworks. This took over the opinion of the Security Research Council. That seems sensible to me, but we do not yet know how that works in practice. Because in the last two years, since that limited ban on fireworks was imposed, we had a temporary total ban on fireworks as a result of the corona measures. Why do the initiators not think it is desirable to test it first and see how it will work out in practice? What are the effects of this? We don't really have any experience with that yet. Why wouldn't we want to know first? I think I actually know the answer, because of course I have read the pieces well. The proposers will say that no fireworks are without danger and that the risks to humans, animals and the environment are always too great. But I think that's a little too easy. Fireworks are not gone, not even if we adopt this proposal today. I also believe that there are risks to this proposal. In particular, I am referring to a possible shift to the illegal part. Because whether you like it or not, that's happening already. Bombs in residential areas from October about. Fireworks in football stadiums. And in riots, cobras are thrown at the police. Firefighters and prosecutors fear more heavy, illegal fireworks in the event of a total ban. But what exactly do we know about the behavioural effects and possibly more illegal fireworks as a result of a total ban? Doesn't this create any more enforcement problems? Why didn't the government want to investigate that when the SP asked for it? We must, of course, avoid getting further away from home because of genuine good intentions. Is there broad public support for this? Is there any support for allowing decorative fireworks to remain limited? Or would there be social support for a total ban? What happens then? Isn't the tradition too deeply rooted for that now? The proposal we are discussing today for a total ban on consumer fireworks actually comes about, and I do not mean that I do not regard it as a dishonour, which is a ban on banning legal fireworks, such as ornamental fountains, between 6 p.m. on 31 December and 2 p.m. on 1 January. Because everything else is already forbidden. So this proposal is not helping anything. Also, this proposal does not change anything about throwing fireworks at the police, because that does not usually happen with ornamental fountains. In other areas too, illegal fireworks will almost always be the culprit. What, according to the SP, should happen? Put that adopted OVV advice into practice and follow closely how it is done. And, above all, continue to do so, by enabling enforcement to do its job properly. That is not the case now, because there is not enough capacity. Make legal consumer fireworks safer, for example by requiring it to be firmer and more heavy. We have had ideas for this in the round table. Also, keep providing those fireworks glasses for free and take illegal fireworks. What possibilities does the Minister see for improving enforcement and detection at the border and the parcel post? Does that mean more capacity? In particular, continue to advocate strict European rules. We need strengthened European directives to bring down the power of fireworks at European level. Encourage alternatives such as fireworks shows or other fun things for people. What can the Minister mean in that? Because there's been so big cuts in municipalities, enforcement and firefighters that municipalities don't see room for that, even if they want to. The government should be able to do something about that. Shouldn't there be a campaign of information in response, for example, to the terrible trend of the past year on TikTok, which calls on young people to kick out ground tolls, if I understand correctly? You used to have the campaign "You're an idiot when you're stunting fireworks." I am not saying that you should repeat that, but I would ask the people who have sense of it to come up with something hipper and also the channels that young people use. I'm too old to think of that. So the question is: should there not be some kind of information or a campaign that would reach the young people concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u8	An interruption by Mr Wassenberg, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u9	I know Mr Van Nispen as someone who fights like no other for the policeman in the workplace. His colleague, Mr Hijink, does the same for care. I do not understand why Mr Van Nispen does not listen better, for example, to the police, who say that a general ban on fireworks would help us to enforce it. The Security Council says the same thing. The security regions say the same thing. If it's about serious illegal fireworks, which the entire Chamber wants to get rid of as soon as possible, you've seen the following in the past two years. There was a fireworks ban. No more injuries have been caused by serious illegal fireworks, not by percentage, but in absolute figures at all. So it has not led to an increase, but it has led to a significant reduction in violence against the police, fires and violence against aid workers. But it has also led to a significant reduction in the number of wounded, from 1,100, 1,200 and 1,300 to 400 and 770. Does Mr Van Nispen agree with me that we have experimented enough now, that we know the effects of such a ban on fireworks and that we should simply opt for a ban on fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u10	I do not think I agree with Mr Wassenberg for the following reason. He says, "We've experimented enough with fireworks." But I wouldn't call that experiments. The measures resulting from the research report of the Safety Research Council have not even been put into practice. I think it is wise that at the time the baby arrows, the Roman candles and later also the flares and the fireworks were already banned. But we don't know how that works out in practice at all. So I wouldn't call that an experiment. I think that's a serious measure to see how to get it safer for everyone. Then Mr Wassenberg says: why don't you listen to the police and, for example, the paramedics? We do. But I do not think Mr Wassenberg should pretend that there is a clear sound from the whole enforcement and from all the mayors. I don't think so. We've been at the same round table. It has not been said: the whole of enforcement considers it wise to impose a total ban on consumer fireworks. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the fire department say that we fear more illegal fireworks. Municipalities are divided. Yes, I have also seen that the G4 now says: it would certainly be wise. But it's impossible, I'm just trying to show that uncertainty here, too, to estimate exactly what the behavioral effects will be on people from, for example, implementing this proposal for a total ban on consumer fireworks. We don't know if the illegal fireworks will increase. If we still want to call it an experiment: I think you might consider the temporary general ban on fireworks that we had over the last two years, in the corona years, as an experiment. We saw what happened there. There's no arrow on that. One year it went very well and very little fireworks was lit off. The other year there was a lot of fireworks lit off. If you look at what happened to a lot of accidents back then, this is what you see. You almost don't believe it, but that's the F1 fireworks. Those are, among other things, the stars. Suddenly, that rose out of control. I cannot draw a clear conclusion from that, Mr. Wassenberg. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u11	The Security Research Council has indeed advised against firing arrows and fireworks. That's exactly what happened. Only, in the year in which that would be forbidden, everything was forbidden. But at the hearing where Mr Van Nispen and I were present, it was also clearly stated that 55% of all injuries are caused by decorative fireworks. That's just the decorative fireworks that's still allowed. So you solve part of the problem with that. It will be the case very often that people will buy that legal decorative fireworks. In absolute terms, this will cause more injuries. Let me now turn to the reduction in the number of victims. In the first corona year there was indeed a very big decrease, from 1,300 to 400. In the second year there were indeed more, but that was also because the police had said in advance: "We are not going to maintain. For us, it is not priority one, not priority two, but priority three. First, we're gonna look at the safety of our own people, the paramedics and the police. Then we look at the safety of the people. Only then will we maintain on fireworks." The moment you announce that in advance, it's not surprising that more people are taking the chance. But even in that last corona year, you saw 30% fewer people were injured by fireworks than usual. So you can see it helps. Again, no more injuries have been caused by serious illegal fireworks. That must be fought very hard; I agree with Mr Van Nispen. But the police also said that they are quite clear in that, even in the position paper that was delivered, that it is easier to enforce it at the time when there is a general ban on fireworks. 'Cause that means every blast is a foul. Now you need to know exactly what kind of bang is that? Is that legal or illegal fireworks? Every bang is a foul. It's easier to maintain. So the police also say: avoid having the whole patchwork of firework bans, where the municipality X does this and the municipality Y does that. The moment you have a national fireworks ban, it's much more unambiguous and easier to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u12	Again, the sounds from enforcement are really variable. That is what Mr Wassenberg is reacting to now. But the D.A. and the fire department say they fear more illegal fireworks. Then my point is: if we are not sure, then we must also honestly say that we do not know. We don't know the behavioral effects. But my assumption is that there will be more illegal fireworks. The D.A. and the fire department say the same thing. Then I think we're further away from home. There are more accidents and more serious accidents, I suppose. That's one. Of course, in the years before 2020 it was very difficult for the police to maintain on the streets. It was difficult to determine whether something was a legal firecracker, for example an astronaut, or an illegal bomb from Belgium: a cobra or whatever. That was very difficult. But we don't know how that's gonna work out now that the fireworks are outlawed and the ornamental fountains and the cakes are just left. We do not yet know how the enforcement work on the street is going to turn out. There's no clear sound about that. Finally, Mr Wassenberg said something about the figures, which I have here in front of me. I sincerely asked myself the following question, which I have not yet resolved and which Mr Wassenberg also did not know when I asked him about it. Why is it that with, for example, the large ornamental fountains and the cakes, so many accidents happened at the turn of the year 2019 on 2020? I think that can almost only be done by improper use, because if you turn off an ornamental fountain, you almost have to hang above it to get hurt. Such a large, sturdy box can't reasonably fall over either. I'm very curious about that. Then let's ask that question. How come that kind of fireworks has happened to so many accidents? Hasn't that been improper use? Was that crafted? I'm really curious about that. But I also insist that a lot of accidents have happened in the last year with the F1 fireworks. I think that's really weird. And I also insist that with the illegal fireworks and with the fireworks that are now banned, rockets and fireworks, even in the past year, when nothing was allowed, an incredible number of accidents have happened. That problem is not gone. Let us not pretend that Mr Wassenberg has the solution so that all this injury no longer occurs. I certainly don't believe in that. I wish it were; then we had another debate. But I'm afraid of an increase in illegal fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u13	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u14	That we are indeed not rid of all wounded, so does the Party for Animals. But we do see that we can expect a significant reduction. That's what we're expecting. I have a question for Mr Van Nispen. He asked how so many accidents could happen; the Minister might be able to answer that question. Mr Van Nispen said that it is all too early for him and that we have not yet seen what the current ban on fireworks and flares means in practice. How much time does Mr Van Nispen need? I like that he doesn't close the door immediately, but how much time does Mr Van Nispen need? A perhaps more difficult question is how many more wounded are allowed to fall. But the question is how much more time he needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u15	How much more time do I need? That's not a matter of days or weeks. This is just my point of view. I have tried to deepen myself and build a careful story on this. This is the position now. Of course, I am going to listen to the answer, but this is the position I am taking in this debate. I mean, let's not fool each other. But the question of how many more injuries to fall, I find a little inappropriate. Mr Wassenberg can really ask me what he wants, but that suggests that I am okay with being injured with fireworks and as if the position of the Party for Animals means that there are zero injuries. Mr Wassenberg simply cannot do that; nor can the proposers do that with this law. Let's just be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u16	I have also argued that I do not expect the number of injured to go straight to zero. That's gonna take a really long time if it ever happens. The question about time I meant a little bit wider. I did not mean how many days or how many weeks, but so to speak how many year changes Mr Van Nispen still needs to see the effect of that ban. That's actually what I meant about that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u17	Okay. I understand that question, but that's looking into the future. We don't know. I also know that traditions can change, but I don't know if I think it's wise to... let me put it another way: I don't think I think this is wise in a tradition that I think is still quite deeply rooted. That is from the fact that even in the past year, when it was not allowed, there was simply an enormous amount of illegal fireworks taken from across the border, which was forbidden, and yet simply turned off. I think the tradition is just deeply rooted. Then I do not know whether it would be wise to come up with a law that might sound good to Mr Wassenberg, as if fewer people would actually be injured. We don't know that at all. If a tradition is still deep, we need to see how it can be safer. For that I really mentioned a series of proposals. I am not going to repeat any of these, but I am very curious to see how that will work out first, following the proposal of the Security Research Council. Then I'd really like to know what that does. I cannot say whether a tradition will change in the years to come, nor how long it will take. But I certainly don't close my eyes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr De Hoop, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u19	I agree with Mr Wassenberg by saying that the damage to people, but also to animals, has obviously been a lot less in the last two years. I try very hard to listen to Mr Van Nispen and he also says: behavior is difficult to predict. I agree with him. There's also, I think, a time before you can maintain in a good way and before people start to behave according to the standards we set. But there is also such a thing as spontaneous compliance. How does Mr Van Nispen look at that? That is if that law is introduced now and people then spontaneously relate to the new standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u20	We could, but we don't know that. You can say, "Let's try it." That may be the position of Mr De Hoop, Mr Wassenberg, the initiators or anyone else. My estimate is that it might lead to more illegal fireworks, and then I think we're further away from home. I don't think we should want that. That might be called an experiment. Nor should we pretend that nothing has happened; so the flares have ended and that fireworks have ended. I also think it would be wise to just see how that works out in practice. We don't know that yet. So Mr. De Hoop says there have been fewer injuries in the last two years. That is true, but you cannot argue against a situation that we do not yet know, namely the cabinet's proposal to follow up on the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u21	Then specifically about the illegal fireworks. In fact, therefore, over the last two years, it has not led to the use of more illegal fireworks, even less. Could you not say that precisely because you are allowed to use fireworks, the step to illegal fireworks is much smaller, and that this distance from the illegal fireworks is therefore greater in terms of people's behaviour if you go for a general ban? I see it the other way around than Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u22	I'm trying to think carefully, of course, I'm listening very carefully about whether that could be the case. Yeah, maybe. That could be; I don't know. I do know, however, that the need for people to put off fireworks is evidently great, that this tradition is deep and that much has been done in recent years to ensure that it can be safer. We don't know how that works yet. But can you say that there will be less illegal fireworks if we ban the legal fireworks? On that assumption, I don't think I can go. I don't think you can justify how that effect could occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u23	What's bothering me is this. Mr Van Nispen's party and my party are very close together, I think. We stand before the people who really stand there old and new as firefighters and medics. They actually describe it as a war zone. That's a lot of fun on the PlayStation, but in practice it's a little less fun. Then I think: if more and more people indicate that they are open to this, then is this a very natural moment to take this step? I therefore regret that a party that stands up for the public cause and for the vulnerable in society is not taking that step now, while the door is opening up more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr De Hoop can now try to put my party away as a party that is not standing up for those policemen or those paramedics, but I do not think that is the debate we are having here. I've just paid a lot of attention to the fact that I don't see that cops have been bombarded with ornamental fountains in the last few years. That's not what I mean, but that's what it is. It was about fireworks, often even illegal fireworks. The agents I've spoken to have faced a crowd who threw cobras or fired heavy avalanches at them. That was already forbidden, and Mr De Hoop, of course, knows that very well. So I don't think it's the cakeboxes and ornamental fountains, the legal fireworks that are left over and which we don't yet know how that's gonna work out in practice, which the cops have had in recent years. So let us try to conduct this debate fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u25	Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u26	I hear that the SP group is open, with a lot of questions, but I also hear the SP group looking. From the point of view of enforcement, it helps if there are alternatives, if there are alternative locations and municipalities might be able to organise a fireworks show. Now, together with Mr Stoffer, I have also prepared an amendment. That's been filed in the meantime. In short, it means making an exception for organised groups of citizens and making it possible for them, if the mayor allows it, to have the opportunity, for example, to put together fireworks in a central place in the neighbourhood, the neighborhood or the village, in a responsible and safe way, and to seek space in this way, listening to the sounds in society, in order to shape the fireworks tradition that still exists in a different, safer way. Is Mr Van Nispen prepared to look at this with open eyes and take it with him when considering the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u27	Who am I to say I'm not? No, of course I'm watching it. In fact, I saw and read the amendment about one minute before I was allowed to walk here, and I think it looks good. I think it is a sympathetic amendment. It was also one of the things I mentioned: try to stimulate alternatives, such as fireworks shows or other things people like. One of the questions I did ask myself was: what conditions would a group of people have to meet in order to get an exemption from the mayor? It must of course be possible to do so safely, but if that can be done properly through the AMvB which I believe Mrs Van der Graaf is proposing, then I am certainly open to it. But that does not mean that we support this bill. You could also say that, if we consider it desirable, we are trying to change a tradition with each other by following, as I now propose, the line of the OVV and thus not to go along with this law, but at the same time to see how we can promote alternatives. With that, you might as well change a tradition in the years to come. That is where we could grow, but I would not like to force it now with a law and thereby ban a tradition that I think is still a little too deeply rooted to be able to do it wisely. I come to a conclusion, Mr President. In short, we are not convinced of the added value of banning decorative fireworks. It is not the solution to all the misery I have mentioned. We also want to know where the earlier tightening of the rules, such as the ban on flares and fireworks, will lead. So I am not saying that traditions cannot change, but I am not convinced that it is wise now to ban something that many people love and enjoy. So we are also afraid of a serious shift towards the more dangerous illegal fireworks. For the time being, therefore, the SP does not support a total ban on consumer fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then we go to Mrs. Bouchallichh, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My appreciation for the initiators, too. I've seen very closely how hard this is to work. A lot of respect for that. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that that is not the right word, because the reason is of course very much to say that we are now standing here. The causes are accidents, damage to nature, the environment and so on. It's a good thing we're finally standing here, because the turn of the year isn't a party for everyone. This is all too often forgotten, because in the Netherlands violence against aid workers, vandalism and damage to humans, animals and nature is considered acceptable. That should not be the case at all. For too long, disturbances of public order have taken place and perhaps too much habit will occur. Some say it's all part of it and it's not that bad. But abroad is even warned against the Dutch turn of the year. There is even a survival guide for tourists. Mr. Chairman. If you give me "Where's the party?" ask, then I hardly dare to say that this is with old and new in the Netherlands. A good party knows no wounded as far as I'm concerned. The existence of a survival guide says enough. The proposal that we are debating today can hopefully bring back celebration and security to New Year's Eve, not least for emergency services.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u31	I was wondering about that survival guide. Is that a survival guide to ornamental pots? Does it say how people survive ornamental pots? What exactly does that guide say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u32	Today we talked about Dutch traditions and how important they are. My point with that survival guide is specifically about the fact that this fireworks is being looked at with different eyes abroad. It's supposed to be a danger. I don't know if it's very specific about ornamental pots.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u33	I can imagine people saying: do not go to the Netherlands with the turn of the year, because then there are only car fires. By the way, this is not a very good percentage. We always see the images from the big city and the incidents that often have to do with drinking and drug use by uneducated young people. I find it a little strange that Mrs Buchallichh here mentions that survival guide in relation to the fireworks ban. Because the fact that there are riots, that there are fires, or that the police are being attacked, has nothing to do with the ornamental pots we set off. This simply has to do with uneducated behavior, alcohol abuse or perhaps drug abuse. Isn't that what Mrs. Bouchallichh thinks? That doesn't have anything to do with the little fireworks we have left, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u34	I don't think so, and I'm not the only one in there. The VNG also says that fireworks are part of a dangerous cocktail. Indeed, alcohol and drugs are not necessarily elements that encourage people to behave well. Fireworks are part of that. As far as we are concerned, we would rather take away one part than continue to allow it. The same applies to the Security Council. In my opinion, it even says that fireworks are a catalyst and that this behavior is triggered. So yes, I agree with Mrs Van der Plas that this is not just about fireworks, but let us not pretend that fireworks are a very small part of this misconduct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u35	Well, the fireworks aren't. It's about the behavior of people with decorative jars in their hands. Often it's a big bang. That's just illegal fireworks. Those are the cobras, fireworks that have long been banned here. You can't ban it again, because it's already forbidden. It's often about the behavior that goes with it. A football match from ADO is not a dangerous game. The players have nothing to do with what's going on in the stands. Then you're not going to say: we're going to make sure ADO never plays again, because that can be a trigger for a small group of people to misbehave. We don't do that there, do we? Then why would Mrs. Bouchallichh relate this to the fireworks? To be honest, that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u36	When I look at the damage caused directly by fireworks, it can be measured very directly. Every year, 500 people end up in the emergency room. 200 eyes are damaged. People even die. That, with all due respect, is not comparable to a football game. Fireworks are so large and such a large part of the behavior that Mrs van der Plas is also acting against, that fireworks must be removed as an element as far as we are concerned. And then we are going to do our best to combat illegality, because otherwise we will not be there yet. Hopefully we can find each other when it comes to that behavior approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u38	500 people end up in the hospital on a number of 10 million people who either turn off fireworks themselves or watch it. That it's 500 is terrible, and it shouldn't be. During a severe winter two years ago, 50,000 people ended up in the hospital with skating on one weekend. I don't think we should ban skating either. Regarding the destruction of bus booths or things that are blown up: the fireworks in the Netherlands are not even heavy enough to blow up a bus booth. So that's often about illegal, heavy fireworks. Again, that is already forbidden; you cannot ban it again. Of that, I'd say maintain that. So I think Mrs Bouchallichh really needs to distinguish a few things, because it does not do justice to 99.9% of the people who just light fireworks in a good way. Nor does it do justice to the fireworks dealers, who really do everything in their power to keep the fireworks as safe as possible. Plastic is also no longer used in the current flares. "Fire arrows," I say, but they are already forbidden. But plastic is no longer used in the fireworks either. I think Mrs Bouchallichh will be provided with the same information as I do. Then I am sorry that she is putting this link back in order to confirm her speech, or I do not know for what reason. I would like to ask Mrs Bouchallichh: is she also open to distinguishing things from each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u39	I have to tell you, I'm kind of looking for what the question here is or was. I have just tried to point out in my speech that, on the one hand, people are directly at risk from fireworks. We haven't even talked about the danger to the climate. The colleague of the Party for Animals also indicated what it does with animals. As far as we are concerned, the social damage is so great that the small group that ruins it for the rest should not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u40	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was with the emergency services. From my group, many thanks and appreciation for the police, fire brigade, ambulance and emergency services that every year under extreme circumstances do their best to ensure public order and security for all of us. But speaking with appreciation and thanks is not enough. I have to think of the times of corona when it was often said that it is not enough for our people to clap. So let's really do something for our emergency services. We cannot accept that the intimidation and aggression these people face almost every day is reinforced with explosives on an annual basis. For once, let's listen to the people who keep us safe. How can we say with dry eyes that we appreciate our aid workers if we are not even prepared to make this one night more bearable? A war zone, horror night and annihilation: these are words these groups use to describe this night. However, this is the tradition that has arisen in recent years. A night that should have been dedicated to being with loved ones, looking back on the previous year and looking forward to the new, has been hijacked. The wide access to dangerous fireworks, including legal fireworks, which are too often used as weapons, has become an annual phenomenon. One night a year, aggression against aid workers, destruction and injuries are facilitated, and we then pronounce shame on them, just to do it again next year. We still do not have a clear answer to the question: what does this really cost society in total?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mrs Bouchallichh just said something in the direction that you would only appreciate the aid workers, such as the agents, who are indeed there for the safety of all of us, if you would accept and accept this proposal, so if you were in favour of a total ban on consumer fireworks. But here's what I'm wondering. The projectiles which are thrown, the explosives, are already prohibited or prohibited. We still don't know how that works in practice. In recent years, only illegal fireworks have been thrown at cops. How often has this happened with the remaining legal consumer fireworks, with ornamental fountains and cakes? Does Mrs. Bouchallichh have any figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u43	First of all, what Mr Van Nispen has just said is a bit black and white. On the contrary, I had a very good debate with him earlier on the question of how to balance this issue and how to make other choices. Let's not push each other in that corner, please. I would like to say a few words about the emergency services and the security services. As I have just pointed out in the direction of Mrs van der Plas, fireworks are also a catalyst for misconduct. To say exactly how many ornamental pots are thrown... I honestly don't have that number. But I do know that it is part of a broader problem, making that misconduct possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u44	Then we'll see it differently. Then that is indeed an assessment of people's behavior. Mrs Bouchallichh says: because ornamental pots remain legal, people throw heavier projectiles, which have been banned for a long time, to the police. I cannot make that causal link one-on-one, but I do agree that we must respect this debate. Then that's another assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u45	I would just like to say that this is not just about throwing ornamental jars at cops. We are all facing a much broader issue. That particular example is part of that. We are also concerned with the pressure on emergency aid and the damage to humans and animals. So I would like to have the conversation a little wider than about that particular ornamental pot, otherwise the conversation would be inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u46	Yes, it is a broader debate. Among other things, it is also about the interests of the environment, animals and aid workers. But the point I was trying to make is that a lot of problems are caused by illegal fireworks. That seems obvious to me. Think of bombs in residential areas from October and cobras thrown at cops. From what remains legally, we do not yet know how it works in practice. Yes, that causes injury, although I still don't understand how this can be done with ornamental fountains and cakes. That injury is much less than, for example, caused by illegal fireworks. We must therefore have the debate on the facts and say: that is what remains and we do not yet know how that will work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u47	I would like to say very briefly that I do not think that, if this bill continues, we will not continue to fight against illegal fireworks. It's not one thing or the other. As far as we're concerned, both are dangerous. We can then judge differently as to how bad that is. I would have stayed at the social cost. The Minister and the Secretary of State sent us a letter yesterday. Thank you for that. It states, among other things, that in the annual changes without a fireworks ban, the medical costs and the costs of absenteeism amounted to EUR 3.2 million per year. The cost of long-term care and disability has not even been taken into account, as well as the cost of clean-up and destruction for municipalities, costs for general practitioners, costs for firefighters and other aid workers, and costs for nature and animal welfare. How much social costs in the form of destruction, injury, environmental damage and animal suffering does this tradition entail? And does the Minister consider that proportionate? In addition to the letter that has already been sent, I would also like to receive some more figures, understanding the comments made earlier in the debate. This will help us to continue this debate. Mr. Chairman. For our group, it is important to change this tradition. It has previously been indicated that this is an important part of the turn of the year. We also want it to remain part of the new year, but in a way that is good for everyone. The more souls, the more joy; literally, in this case. We are concerned not only with aid workers, but also with lung patients, people with PTSD, livestock and pets and all those who do not want to end up in a so-called "war zone." In order to achieve a safer year-end, it is equally important that people do not get prohibited fireworks abroad. That is why I ask the proposers and the Minister how they see agreements with our neighbouring countries on a criterion of residence. In addition, support for a ban on consumer fireworks is of great importance. I was also able to follow Mr Van Nispen's line. After all, the police have already indicated that it can be a closure, but cannot solve the whole problem itself. Fortunately, many people in the Netherlands are in favour of a total ban, as shown by polls of I&D Research and EenVandaag. However, it remains important to broaden this support base through clear communication and adequate enforcement. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. What kind of old and new do we want? Every year, we see how our society is disrupted by the plural abuse of fireworks. Why not put these ugly aspects of the celebration behind us so that we can enjoy professional fireworks in a safe way? The facts are on the table. As far as we are concerned, we can make a good assessment of the damage that will happen at the turn of the year without a ban on consumer fireworks: about 1,300 people in emergency services and general practitioners, two blind eyes per hour and one dead. All too much. A significant part of the victims did not even light the fireworks themselves, but was bystander. For these people, it's a traumatic event. Some of them have to carry this around for the rest of their lives. For many Dutch people, fireworks also have beautiful sides. The online consultation often showed that people are worried about losing this. It is therefore all the better that there is room for alternatives, so that people can still enjoy fireworks. It is good that this is reflected in the proposal. During the last two years, a temporary ban on fireworks was imposed to relieve the burden of care during the corona pandemic. This led to 70% and 40% fewer fireworks victims respectively. In the meantime, virtually all measures have been abolished. If we do not make the temporary ban permanent, we will say that we can now afford the additional hospital cases. But as far as we are concerned, fireworks victims must always be prevented, regardless of the current pressure on care. It is absurd to think that we could now afford 1,300 victims. The prevention of victims should be a goal. These victims and the millions of euros in destruction costs are a huge price. What we get in return is getting it out of fireworks instead of leaving it to the people who really know it. Let's stick to professional fireworks shows and innovative show shows. This will save us a great deal of suffering. One more question to the cabinet. Why is the choice to wait for the temporary ban being maintained, when there are already so many signs that it will not be sufficiently effective? That's not something I thought of myself. The Safety Council has indicated that fireworks are a catalyst for non-standard behavior. The municipalities and mayors support a general ban on fireworks. The police have indicated that the patchwork makes enforcement more difficult. The Council of State also indicates that a total ban is better enforced. Then we also have the Animal Protection Committee, which talks about the enormous suffering that animals have to endure every year. The Long Fund has also indicated that the current design of fireworks leads to respiratory distress in lung patients. Mr. Chairman. This is just a selection of the large group of supporters. If it is said here that the Netherlands is not yet ready, then I put my doubts to that effect. At a normal turn of the year, 48% to 52% of the eye injury is due to decorative fireworks which remain legal under the partial ban. We simply cannot ignore the good results of the temporary bans on fireworks. As ophthalmologist Tjeerd de Faber said during the round table where I was also present: if the previous fireworks bans were a medical experiment, it would never pass through an ethical committee to allow it again. Finally, Mr President. A safe turn of the year is a political choice. The facts are on the table. Year after year, we see things go wrong. The millions of euros of damage pale in the traumatic injuries suffered by victims. The success of a ban requires support. We can see that, too. We look forward to the stakes on that. It is therefore all the better to report that a majority of the Dutch and a majority of the supporters of most parties are in favour of a ban. 700,000 citizens and 1,200 organisations, including the Netherlands Ophthalmological Society, the Animal Protection, the National Family Doctors Association, the Netherlands Youth Health Center, the Divers Deaf Foundation and so on have signed the Fireworks manifesto. Please, let's listen to this big group. Let us choose to make old and new parties for everyone, where we can still enjoy fireworks, but in a safe way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mrs Bouchallichh. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Hoop, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the hard work done by the proposers and, above all, the staff. Old and new is a party where I personally have warm feelings. Together we look back at the year and look forward to the next. It's a celebration of connection that I always celebrate with all the people from my village. So when I think of old and new, I think it's a celebration for everyone: the oil bulbs on the table, champagne in the glasses, the Top 2000, Bohemian Rhapsody, Gurbe Douwstra in the Fryske Top 100, perhaps a must for the upcoming old and new showcase and indeed fireworks afterwards. But when you look at the news the next day, you see right away that that is not the case everywhere and for everyone. The party is marred by nuisance, mess and, worst of all, hundreds of victims from fireworks. Sometimes even one or more people die. This means that every year for the rest of their lives people have to do with eye damage, hearing damage, burns or missing fingers. These are often also very long lives to live, because half of the victims are under 20 years of age and a quarter are even under 12. Also, almost half of the victims are bystanders. They didn't choose to light fireworks themselves. So people are not afraid to walk around town on New Year's Eve. Hundreds of thousands of people with lung disease have no choice but to stay home. This way old and new is absolutely not a party for everyone. In addition to victims, old and new also incredibly require a lot of aid workers. Our festive new year feels like policemen, firefighters, paramedics, medics and boas are a mess. On the PlayStation I play it often that's very nice but in practice that's really a lot less. For these aid workers, it is very dangerous. Responsible use of fireworks remains old and new, as far as I am concerned, but the way in which we now organise it cannot continue as far as the Labour Party is concerned. The last two years have shown that a ban can be effective, even though there is still much to gain in compliance. I can see that, too. The last year's changes were 40% fewer victims than in 2019, the last year without a ban. There were zero deaths instead of two. There were zero blind eyes instead of thirteen. And there were far fewer reports to the fire department and there was much less damage. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, old and new is becoming a celebration for everyone, including fireworks, but organised by the municipality, by professionals who know what they are doing and who also produce a better result. The Labour Party will therefore vote in favour of this initiative law of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, which does not lose tradition but continues a tradition in a different, safer way. Although partial compliance with a ban already makes a lot of profit, compliance will really have to be improved. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister of Justice and Security. What else does the Minister think is needed to enforce this bill properly if it is to be adopted? Does the Minister recognise that enforcement of the use of illegal fireworks will be improved if fireworks in the F2 category are banned? What agreements can be made with Belgium and Germany to prevent the sale of fireworks to Dutch people as much as possible? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see I have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u50	Sure. First Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you to Mr De Hoop for a fairly pragmatic speech. When he says people are afraid to walk around town on New Year's Eve, I share that concern. But that's not because someone's holding off an F2 flare or because kids are running around with stars? I have the same fear as me walking my dog through the woods around that time, and a week in advance and a week after, because people are really throwing giant bombs at you. And they do not come from the F2 category; they come from Belgium. They are brought here in large loads. Does Mr De Hoop agree with me that if it were just F2 flares and ornamental fireworks and if that were properly removed and handled carefully with good information, there would simply be nothing going on and we could just let our wonderful tradition continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u52	I hear Mr Van Haga. I must honestly say that when I first got this spokesperson, I thought: yes, I'm sure it's all illegal fireworks that pose a danger. But you can see that there are a lot of injuries from F2 fireworks. With an F2 flare like that, you can do a lot of damage to someone. Also those are fireworks categories that leave you injured. Then the illegal fireworks. Sure, there's the greatest danger in terms of destruction and danger to cops. But you can see that there's been less illegal fireworks consumed in the last two years. At the moment when it is necessary to maintain it, it is more likely that it will be possible in an effective way, because everything is illegal. So I think it is even easier for the police to deal with illegal fireworks in terms of enforcement. I recognise that the greatest danger is probably the illegal fireworks, even though you can see that F2 also causes a lot of damage. It is precisely in the area of enforcement that we have more resources with a general ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u53	But everything is a trade-off, isn't it? It's a trade-off between the pleasure we have of our wonderful tradition, and the risks. Suppose we take out all that illegal fireworks, then it's behavior. If you put one of those F2 flares in a bottle or something like that and wear those glasses and helmets and I know what else you're putting on, and it sticks off and runs away really fast, there's really nothing going on. It goes wrong because of the behavior of people who are going to throw such an F2 flare at someone. Of course you shouldn't. Surely people's behavior cannot be the cause of the fact that the Labour Party now decides to abandon this wonderful tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u54	It's always the fault of the Labour Party, I see. No, I'm kidding, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u55	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mrs. Van der Plas, I gave you such a beautiful compliment the other day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u57	That's a joke, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u58	Back to Mr Van Haga's interruption. I see that illegal fireworks can be better enforced with a general ban. I also think that behavior can be influenced. If you set the standard that fireworks can no longer be used as a whole, the step towards illegal fireworks is greater. The use of fireworks, I think, leads to more aggressive behaviour. What I have just heard, and what the Security Council also says, namely that it is a catalyst, is certainly an argument for opting for an overall ban. It's a trade-off. I make this one and Mr Van Haga makes another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u59	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u60	Finally, Mr President. We are indeed very different about this. The state should not eventually wrap us in bubble plastic and then leave a straw out, so that we can do nothing at all and be completely safe and so that nothing happens to us. No, we want to weigh those risks ourselves. We want the individual freedom to light our own fireworks. It's okay to take a little risk. We must, of course, minimize that risk. We will find each other in this area, but I would not be in favour of going so far as to shoot off that very beautiful tradition. I don't know the Labour Party as a party that destroys everything. In the past, the Labour Party didn't build anymore either. But if it is true that the Labour Party is also going to take away our fireworks tradition, we have sunk deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u61	I'm not against the fireworks tradition. I am in favour of a tradition that we can continue, but in a safer way, and in which everyone can participate in a pleasant way. We also have a responsibility as politicians. Half of the victims are under 20 years of age and a quarter of them under 12 years of age. That worries me. I believe that we have a role to play in protecting the people and protecting vulnerable young people. I will make a different assessment in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u62	Thank you. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mrs. Van der Plas is laughing already.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u64	I always enjoy having a debate with Mr De Hoop. He always makes me pretty happy. That's a compliment back. I very much appreciate Mr De Hoop, also in his contribution. He makes trade-offs, he's realistic. He's from Friesland, so the healthy farmer's understanding is booming. Except I'd like to ask you about those fireworks shows. I heard Mr De Hoop pick up on that: perhaps we should look at events in municipalities. But we have 355 municipalities in the Netherlands. There aren't so many professionals who get to do a show like that. If we go there, I'll make sure the cities come out okay, because that's where most people live. But what are the people in the countryside supposed to do? Do they have to travel to the city? Public transport is often very bad. In many areas there are no buses at all in the evening. How does Mr De Hoop see that? There aren't enough professionals for every city.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u65	I think it could be organized. I myself live in the largest municipality of the country in terms of area, Súdwest Fryslân, with 90 villages and cities. I can indeed imagine that in such a region you should facilitate that in a good way. It may take more than when it comes from the municipality. I have seen an amendment by the Christian Union and SGP, which may also play a role in this. Perhaps that is precisely the concern Mrs van der Plas is putting on the table. I just heard someone else say it would cause problems in the city. It's just how you interpret it. I think it is to be organized and you can give people who are able to do it a great deal of space and give them the confidence to organize it. In this sense, I also like the amendment tabled by the Christian Union and SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr De Hoop says that it might be organised. Let's say, worst-case scenario, the fireworks ban comes through. It doesn't look like it, but what if it happens? Then there is not really an alternative for next year. I am going to vote against the proposal anyway, but would the PvdA perhaps be prepared to say: not yet, but only when it is all in order; then we can talk about it? I do foresee that villages and people in the region, in the countryside, will simply be deprived of fireworks and fireworks shows. I do not think it is feasible to organise it very quickly at the moment and in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u67	I think it was a great disappointment for many people that the decisions on old and new have been taken quite late in the year. We're in June now, so I think there's plenty of time to organize that properly. If the proposal is accepted, as I hope, I would like to say to Mrs van der Plas that I would like to work with her to ensure that fireworks shows can also be organized in rural areas. I'm sure I'm willing to see what it takes. I should like to put that question to the initiators as well. I like to hear how they see it. That way we can see how we can also serve the countryside well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u69	That's a lot to think about, isn't it, if that's how we're gonna do it? It's not just about a show that's well organized. It's got to be a whole event. We need access. There's gotta be some security guards. There must be catering, because I suppose people want to have a drink too, whether or not with alcohol. There's gotta be a ride. The buses must run; the trains must run. I would ask Mr De Hoop to think very carefully about how big that is going to be in the region. A tram runs every two minutes in Amsterdam, so people can easily get to events there, but that is not the case in the countryside. You do not have to answer it now, but my question is therefore whether you want to think very carefully about what you are getting yourself into. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the trigger. The fireworks are the trigger, said Mrs. Bouchallichh, and makes people aggressive. My son goes out, grabs a pot, lights it, chats with the neighbors and comes back in. That ornamental pot isn't a trigger for him at all. Why not? Because that boy is well-educated and has just moral awareness and knows he shouldn't. So it is about behavior; I wanted to give that to you in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u70	I've heard Mrs. Van der Plas and I'm always happy if she gives me something. I take that very much to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Knops, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA Group, too, thank the initiators and the staff, some of whom are hidden behind the pillar, for submitting the legislative initiative proposal. There is a great deal of work involved, and it is good that this right is exercised by Members of Parliament. Maybe it's not for the first time, but it is for the first time in this new temporary home. My compliments on that. I am the replacement for Mr Van der Molen. He's the real fan of fireworks, but he's sick tonight. He's safe at home and he's asked me to take over. Mr. Chairman. Lighting fireworks is one of the special traditions that our country is rich in. A lot of people work fireworks together with family, friends and neighbors during the new year. It is a nice ending of the year and a festive beginning of the new year. I can imagine that the initiators have also regularly, or perhaps very often, turned off fireworks in the past. I have very nice memories of the time when as a young man, you showered, with your hairs, which I had then, wet and with your pajamas on.. a jerk pajamas for some people was woken up to celebrate New Year's Eve and look at those beautiful fireworks from behind the window, so safe. You grow up with it and if that happens safely and can be done safely, then it is absolutely beautiful and then we also have to maintain that tradition. The question to the initiators is whether they can even imagine a Netherlands in which the tradition will no longer exist that people themselves can choose to set off fireworks in their own circle, with their neighbors, or to launch the new year in another way. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the proposal now before us, the initiators state as an important element that there would be a very large support for such a general ban on the firing of fireworks by the Dutch people. Our group is questioning the basis of this figure. My question to the initiators is whether they have consulted several sources on this matter in order to arrive at this finding and conclusion. Have they also taken note of the results of last year's VoiceWijzer, which shows that a majority of over 2.1 million users of the VoiceWijzer do not want a ban on ornamental fireworks? What influence does this majority have on the argument put forward by the proposers that society considers the ban to be fair and proportionate? I would like to have a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has repeatedly drawn attention to the risks of fireworks. There are, and I'm not going to deny it here. In order to reduce this risk, many measures have been taken in recent times. You can't rule out the risk either, but you can narrow it down. An example of this is the ban on F3 fireworks. We see the great nuisance and damage caused by fireworks in parts of our country. We do not want to trivialize that either. So if you're asking me if I'm in favour of an old and new person who knows how to behave and doesn't do large-scale fires and destruction, then my answer is "yes." But I would also answer the same question positively when it comes to the coronarles and riots and disturbances surrounding football matches. In this respect, we share with the initiators the view that the turn of the year should take place as safely as possible. In many of the incidents around old and new fireworks play a prominent role, but not the only one. At other events, too, I mentioned them just now, you can see that the unhindered violence in all kinds of riots causes a lot of injuries to bystanders, aid workers and police, as well as a lot of material damage. Our group also thinks that this is unacceptable. But that's mainly because of the bombs being used. Those bombs are now illegal; they are absolutely forbidden. The question is therefore what a national ban on fireworks, as it is now proposed, will solve. I agree with the view of the Council of State. You could even maintain the assumption that the total ban will lead to more illegal fireworks. Because if something isn't allowed, of course we're Dutch anyway, then we'll just make sure we get it. Then we're gonna buy stuff that's very easily available across the border. The cobras in Italy are as easy to get as the pizzas. And if you live in the border area where I come from, then you cross the border to Germany and Belgium and then you get all that stuff that is absolutely forbidden here, that is very unsafe and we also find it undesirable that it is used here. Despite the good intentions of this bill, I would like to congratulate you once again, because it is a social problem with many different views and it is also not uncontroversial, it is the question of whether the aim of the initiators is achieved. I'm also curious how they look at those last two year changes. In an interrupting debate it has already been discussed that they are and are not representative. There were forbidden, the years differed greatly and the mindset of the Netherlands was also different: nothing was allowed for a very long time, then people were allowed to do things again and they were not allowed to do things. I wonder how they look at the number of victims and what that means. What conclusions do they draw over the past two years, as if it were an experiment? Of course, this has never been the case, but it is a relevant point. That also brings me to the point of timing. That's what Mr Van Nispen said. Of course, we have already taken measures to ban F3 fireworks. We were very much in favour of this, and we are still in favour of it, but since then there has been no normal year-end. Therefore, the following question to the initiators: why do they not want to wait for additional measures, such as the initiative proposal, until an evaluation of a normal year change has taken place in which the ban on fireworks of category F3 has actually been put into practice? Why now with this far-reaching ban, I would almost say: come also disproportionate ban? Once again, the good intentions aside, it goes a long way that everyone in the Netherlands should not do any more things we were allowed to do for years because the initiators are afraid of the effects if that proposal were not adopted. As far as we are concerned, the proportionality and extent of the scope of this initiative proposal is premature at the moment, especially in the situation we are now in. I'd like a response from the initiators. Mr. Chairman. My former colleague in the Chris van Dam group has argued in the previous cabinet period for the operation of the Arms and Ammunition Act to bring the heavy illegal fireworks that are still classified as F4 fireworks. This extends powers, such as search, and penalties and allows preventive search under certain conditions. In the event of a motion, it was then possible to apply pre-arrest and expeditious law in the event of serious illegal fireworks. In addition, our group has advocated district-based enforcement and the establishment of a national enforcement plan. Therefore, the question to the Minister for Justice and Security as to how these measures are being implemented. The issue of nature and the environment has also been raised by a number of members and is also part of the initiative proposal. It states that the scale at which nature and the environment would be disturbed is unacceptable in the opinion of the initiators and that this justifies a general ban on fireworks for consumers. According to them, the starting point is as safe, as quiet and as environmentally friendly as possible. Then why do the initiators want to allow fireworks shows? That's a lot to do if we're gonna get all the municipalities together, isn't it? If every city's gonna organize a show like this, you're gonna have the same effects of fireworks, aren't you? That is, in a sense, locational, but the effects are far beyond that location. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of a ban on fireworks does not harm the troublemakers, but rather obedient fireworks lovers, the majority. Our group therefore focuses first on an evaluation of the national ban on fireworks, rockets and category F3 which we support. Additional measures may be discussed subsequently if necessary. I also think that every time you look at the effects of the measures you have taken and whether you are achieving the goals you have set. In doing so, our focus is on better enforcement, reducing incidents of violence, a tough approach to violent victims and, where necessary, restrictions in the sale of fireworks. So it will not surprise you that our group has great reservations about this proposal at the moment, once again with thanks for the efforts the initiators have made on such an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. Then we will first listen to Mrs Van der Graaf, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u74	I hear Mr Knops say that this bill is not an answer to the major problem of illegal fireworks. I think we'll agree on that soon. But if he knows that 81% of the fireworks damage at the last normal turn of the year that we had was due to legal fireworks and that half of the injuries were caused by decorative fireworks, and if we know from the past year that there were half fewer fire reports in Rotterdam-Rijnmond and half fewer agents had to be deployed on the street, is Mr Knops prepared to see if we can take a step towards shaping this fireworks tradition in a safer way? Is he perhaps also inclined to look with open eyes at the amendment that Mr Stoffer and I have prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u75	Anyway, we have to look at that with our eyes open. That's exactly what I reported. I also think that we have had a very mature debate over the past two or three years and that we have already taken a lot of measures to maintain the tradition. I have actually heard all the speakers say that so far. I don't hear anyone saying we're gonna let F4 go again, but it's there. So we're in some sort of sham reality. We have a legal reality of what we would like and we have the reality on the street, where we're just sitting with illegal stuff that causes the real damage, the physical damage to people, to the environment. That is not only with old and new, on which this proposal is based, but also with ADO, also with the coronarelles. Detached gangs, sniffed-out guys with alcohol on, use these things as weapons. We must act against this, but I would like to maintain the tradition for as long as possible. I just confessed that I'm not even a big fan myself, because I've spilled so much stuff that goes above F4, that I think it's all a little light stuff. But I can enjoy it and I like it when other people can enjoy it. I didn't light a lot of fireworks myself. So I'm not standing here in front of myself, but I do think we should respect the large group that deals with this in a normal way, with security measures, such as glasses. We've all seen it change in the past few years. There's been some real action. I also mention the upbringing. I heard Mr Kops say the same. Children of 10 years old play outdoors with fireworks without supervision. I'm sorry, but where are these parents? We all have our own responsibility, too. You also don't send a 5 year old child on the highway or a big road by bike. You won't. We should not describe it all in the direction of the fireworks themselves. It's about the proper use of it. Nothing is without risk. By reducing the categories, we will reduce the risk. You heard me say at the end that my group wants to look first at the effects of the measures we have now taken. We also want to look very strongly at enforcement, because I think that is one of the biggest problems we have today. We're sitting here in The Hague doing things, but then all the stuff comes in across the border. That does not seem to me to be a desirable situation. Then there is your amendment. We've been in touch for a while. I welcome the amendment before us, but I have learned that if you submit amendments and make laws, they must also work in practice. I have a few more questions about that. I actually saved it for when you were going to speak... Go ahead. I can do it now or right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u76	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u77	It's a bit of a reverse interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u78	I'm assuming he'll be standing with me later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u79	The question was: what do you think of my amendment? When it comes to "organised groups of citizens," who are they? What safety requirements should be met and what bureaucracy will be created if you have to settle this with each other? Isn't it going to be some kind of derivative fireworks show? If you say on social media that you have a fireworks event, it's going to be some kind of project X party and everyone comes up with it, how can you guarantee security? It raises a lot of questions for me. On your amendment, I say the same thing as on the initiative proposal: it aims to give more space, but how is it going to work in practice and what are the municipalities then faced with? So I do have some questions about that, but I am counting on you to say something about it in your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u80	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that. I would like to come back to the point that Mr Knops raised about enforcement, because that is a serious point. That is also a major problem at the moment. Right now, it's hard for the police to enforce, because they don't know exactly whether a bang of legal fireworks or illegal fireworks comes from. It's complicated to maintain right now. The police are making a clear appeal to this and so are the security regions. They are all behind unambiguous enforcement. The condition is that you provide alternative locations. That is the charm of the amendment, even if I say so myself. Would it be worth it to the CDA to reconsider this? Wouldn't this be a missed opportunity? Let us seize the chance that next year, too, we will have a year to come with fewer victims, fewer violence and fewer riots. This is really a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u81	Sure. I don't think the difference in what we're trying to achieve is that big either. We all hate it and we all hate the fact that there is so much violence, that there is so much damage done and that people are injured who have nothing to do with it. But all the input from the police, the fire department and the Security Council says that people are also concerned about the support. This kind of far-reaching legislation can only be introduced if there is support for it. That is one of the elements that I have asked questions about to the initiators. On the basis of the signals from my surroundings and the signals that were at issue in the hearing, I doubt whether the majority of the Dutch people are in favour of this. The real problem is that these illegal items are used as weapons. You can make a distinction between F4 and an asterisk; that is not so difficult. If a bus booth flies in ruins, then you also know that this is not due to a cake that Mr Van Nispen stabbed off. I just found out he knows a lot about it. That's suspicious! I understand that the police say that a total ban is easy to enforce, but they also emphasised very strongly that the real big problem is that that stuff keeps coming in. If we have an elephant standing in the room, namely the illegal fireworks, and we are building a Dutch law around it with all good intentions, then that seems to be symbolic legislation, and I do not like that very much. I think we should tackle the problem at its core. Hence my question to the Minister for Justice and Security: what can we do, also in consultation with other countries, to prevent this problem? A number of other Members have also asked questions about this. That way we can continue our tradition in a safe way. It will never be completely risk-free. It is not football on Saturdays or Sundays either, but we must be able to maintain the tradition. That's my bet. I called it untimely. I believe that we should implement the measures we have now taken, also on the basis of the OVV recommendations, in a normal turn of the year, hopefully, and we should look at the effects of this. I did not say that position was cast into concrete. Because we always have to look at the effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u82	Thank you. Then we'll... yes, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u83	One final point. I know the CDA so I know Mr Knops as a party that is right behind our aid workers, our policemen and our firefighters. I call on the CDA to reconsider the position and listen carefully to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u84	We should not create a false contradiction here, namely that one party here in the Chamber would be more and the other party less in solidarity with the aid. 'Cause I'm really upset when I see the footage of rogue guys chasing paramedics. I am in favour of a tough approach on that point; you will not be surprised. But it has to work. I want to look at every amendment and every law to see how we can improve it. My group wants that, too. But let it be clear that violence against aid workers is simply inadmissible. That's cowardly and unacceptable. But it's not just about the fireworks. It's about the way fireworks are used as a weapon against other people. That's what we have to do. That has to do with mentality. This has to do with education; let us also mention that point. People who have been completely sniffed out: why aren't we talking about that? We think it's normal if you're all sniffed out and used this kind of thing. Now all we're talking about is fireworks. Then let's name the whole problem. Then we're being honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u85	I hear Mr Knops say that this proposal is premature and premature. I immediately remembered this morning's newspaper article, in which the director of the Rotterdam-Rhinmond security region says that the momentum for a total ban on fireworks is now. He's not the only one reporting this. The Safety Council has also argued for a general ban on fireworks for years. They even got there before. The G4 also believes that it is high time we finally filed that ban on fireworks. I am glad to hear that Mr Knops is open to everything. So my question is: how does he take these fairly clear calls from the field into consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u86	In fact, our group took it. It's very nuanced; that's what my questions were about. I doubt that the majority of the Dutch population, and we are also representatives of the people here, share that view. I also share the concerns within the Security Council, the police and the fire department about safety. But I also read in all those contributions, both the police and the fire department, a double story. That is, "Let's tackle the real problem. Then we shall be at your side first." "Untimely" and "preventive" may not be the best words. This is a very important subject; I do not want to take anything away from it. However, as far as we are concerned, we should first of all evaluate the effects of the measures already in the pipeline. I assume that every year we have a debate on the evaluation of old and new. I hope it disappears someday and it's gonna be okay. But maybe that's against my better judgment. I think we should always look at the effects of the measures we have taken, not only the limitation of the possibility of firing fireworks, which we already have, but also the intensification of enforcement and control and a harder approach. It's a combination. It's not a silver bullet. It's just a combination of measures you'll have to take. Our group is open in that. We're gonna make another decision. I'm not gonna judge who's right either, because I don't think it's that simple. You can see that the discussion is progressing. The best proof of this is that we have taken the measures we have now taken. But let's do that one step at a time. I can't predict where that's gonna end, but we're looking at it with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u87	I appreciate this open answer. We are indeed different from understanding what a reasonable order is. My second question concerns what Mr Knops mentioned several times: raising, setting standards and ensuring that people behave. In a way, that is quite well laid down here with the individual. Does Mr Knops not think that we, as a Chamber, can set standards in a certain way and set a good example? We might be able to do that by setting a ban on fireworks and showing them: "We do not accept the unrest. We don't accept what's being done to our aid workers. We don't accept the damage the rest of us have to pay for." How does Mr Knops look at the standards from the Chamber, from the idea of raising and drawing the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u88	I believe very strongly in raising, but also in explaining why it is not convenient and not wise to abuse that stuff. But we should also not put out the picture that the whole of the Netherlands is a total mess with old and new. In the area where I live, hardly anything happens. Yeah, there's been an incident once, but it's possible at a big party when people have been drinking a lot. But not much more happens than usual. They are certain hotspots sometimes, although I wouldn't call it a tradition where apparently the aim is to cause as much damage as possible. I think we should talk about that. I think we're very close to each other in there. But I do not think that we should take a measure that has a major impact on what people may and may not do, when there will always be a group that will not care about anything. It only increases inequality, and I do not think it is just; that is what I stand for. I also read in the letters of the Security Council and certainly in the letters of the police that they say: much more is needed to tackle this problem. Plus, not insignificant, what do our neighbors do? Because, of course, we are not on an island and we do not have a hundred percent control at the border either. We don't have the capacity for that either, but that's where it gets in. And then that stuff is used all year round, really not just with old and new. Criminals and wheeldrivers just have it at home, in the residential areas, all year round, to bet if they want to kick another riot. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u89	Finally, Mr President. I can follow Mr Knops' problem analysis, but the outcome is different for us. We do not see it as a silver bullet, but also as a distraction from the approach to illegality. We see it as a whole. I hope that the CDA will be able to follow that at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u90	I think it is an extremely worthy debate. We do not always have to agree with each other, but of course we have already had a partial ban on fireworks in recent years. It's a tradition. We also need to look at support. If we ban it completely and we can't have anything more and you can just sit in your pajamas behind the window, just like I used to, watching that fireworks show, I don't know if that's the stuff that many Dutch people would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u91	Then we'll go to Mr. De Hoop, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u92	I hear Mr Knops very often about support. He himself mentioned a poll at the beginning of his speech. I think it would be a good idea to mention the 2020 I&D Research poll. In that, 69% of the participants said: we are in favour of a total ban on fireworks if there are fireworks shows. There was also a majority of CDA voters in favour of this. So I can see that support. I think there is room for that too, but you also indicated that there is a problem with enforcement. You yourself outlined that the CDA also says that you really shouldn't want that F3 anymore. But it is precisely in terms of enforcement that the police and also the Council of State indicate that a comprehensive ban is much better for this enforcement. So I feel a little inconsistency there. Would you mind going into that a little more in depth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u93	It's not black and white. That input from the police, which says it's more manageable, I've read it too. The police think that's easier. Yeah, I guess so. Then it is very black and white, all or nothing; everything that blows is forbidden. In that sense, it would be easier for enforcement. But the consequence is that a lot of people who just like to put off some fireworks once a year on New Year's Day, shouldn't do that anymore. That has to do with proportionality. That's the trade-off. So it is not here: what is true and what is not true? In these polls, it is just like in political polls: you can always interpret them differently. So I do not want to enter into a competition about this, but I have put a question on this: how do you view that? This may change, but it is mainly about the weighting that we have to make: how do we ensure that an old and new can take place as safely as possible and that people can still maintain that tradition? Maybe our final weighing will fail something else. My conclusion is that, from your point of view, the glass is already half full, because there is already a lot limited. Again, we wholeheartedly agree with that. My big concern is that we here in theory limit everything by law and that it all comes in through the back door, so that in practice we don't get anywhere with it because some people stick to those agreements and others just enjoy using that stuff all year round.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr Knops talks about 'the others', but half of the victims are bystanders. Those aren't the ones doing it themselves. These "others" therefore include half of children under 20 and a quarter of children under 12 years of age. Of course, there is a responsibility of ours. I'm still looking. Imagine that it turns out that we can make very good agreements with Germany and Belgium and that this illegal fireworks is really much better to maintain; then I also think that this is a very good outcome, especially for those 'others', who do not always choose to be injured. I'm still trying to find the space at the CDA to feel something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u95	I will not deny that either; I am sure that is what Mr De Hoop is referring to in the polls. There will be supporters and opponents within each political party. I expect many supporters of a ban from the Animal Party, but our party will have that mixed up; that is not all or nothing. But I think we should do things step by step to see what the effect is. I very much believe that we need to make legislation that actually brings closer to the objective we are aiming for. Once again, we will undoubtedly have another debate on this next year. We believe that we should first evaluate a normal year-end with the measures that have been taken, since we have not had them twice. At the same time, we just need to make a real commitment to this enforcement, because I realize very well that if you are on that front line and you are a paramedic, a policeman, a fireman or an ambulance worker, or you work at the municipality and you have to organize it all, you have a lot of responsibility on your shoulders. However, I believe that we also have a duty to make laws here that actually have results, and I do not need to make laws here that sound beautiful on paper, and then have the same misery as in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr Wassenberg, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr Knops and the CDA are committed to tradition. The Party does the same for the Animals, but we may then put a slightly different focus. We're putting a different focus on that old and new tradition. I have said something about this in my contribution. So we're separated, but I don't think we need to be unbridgeable apart, so I'd like to take a look at that. We're talking about a trade-off of all kinds. Mr Knops says he wants an evaluation, but we have of course already been able to see part of the evaluation in the newspaper this morning. That was the director of the Rotterdam-Rijnmond security region. It says: we have 180 reports per hour at a normal turn of the year and in recent years there have been less than 100; last year we had zero serious eye injuries. How does he weigh that evaluation? That may not be a formal evaluation, but it is, of course, an evaluation of what has happened in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u98	If you put the last two year changes side by side, you could draw some interesting conclusions from that, and sometimes contradictory conclusions. It has also been changed a few times in an interrupting debate: I think it is too short a turn to draw a kind of politically desirable conclusion, depending on where you stand in this Chamber. So I would argue that those measures that we have already taken are now actually being implemented and that we are also evaluating a normal year change. I think you should always look at the effects, and if it doesn't help, you should see what helps. But I also want to highlight that other side of the coin. If we are going to decide here that something is not allowed anymore and that it is still happening in half of the Netherlands and you have no enforcement capacity, what are we doing? I think it's called being tolerated in the Netherlands. Then you say you can't and you allow it anyway. I think that's a very undesirable situation. When I hear everyone so in the contributions right now, I see that everyone has the same goal, namely to achieve a safe old and new. But I like things that work and that have effect. In that sense, I am not at all so far away from the Party for Animals, especially as regards the traditions you have just described when it comes to old and new. Because there doesn't need to be fireworks at all. But the people who like it and can do it safely must be able to do so as far as our group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u99	I ask this because Mr Knops just said: you may have big problems here in the Randstad in the big cities, but in a very large part of the Netherlands it is not. But the director of the Rotterdam-Rhinmond security region spoke explicitly on behalf of his 24 colleagues and himself, so on behalf of the 25 security regions, also on behalf of the Limburg security region, to name just one more. So it was a general picture. So he didn't just speak for himself, he gave the national image. Then there's the Security Council. This is chaired by someone who knows Mr Knops well, namely Hubert Bruls, who is also from the CDA. He sent a letter to the Chamber stating the first sentence: for several years the Safety Council has been advocating a total ban on the sale and the setting off of consumer fireworks. They also keep track of this from year to year, so that is also a form of evaluation. How does he weigh that? That is also his own party political colour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u100	That game about political colour can be done here; I think the debate so far is very much focused on the content. It does not matter how I look at that argument at all in what political colour anyone has. Let me put that in front of you. But I also read that letter and they are very consistent in that respect. But in the end, we have to weigh things up here. Again, a number of things have happened in recent years, in the right sense. We've had two very special year changes. I don't think it's representative. I think the same thing as Mr Van Nispen: you can put up all kinds of hypotheses about that, but I also dare not say what is causing one or the other and what are explanations. I don't think anyone can do that here in the house. I would urge you to understand this a little better and then see if additional measures are needed. I do not rule that out, I say for the sake of clarity, but if we do nothing, particularly on enforcement, any action we take is doomed to failure in advance. And I would regret that, because in the end I have not heard anyone in this Chamber say that the common objective, which the initiators also have and that Mr Wassenberg supports, is not shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Knops. Then I suggest we suspend for five minutes. That has nothing to do with the VVD's contribution, but we're gonna stretch our legs. We'll start again at 9:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u102	I'll resume the meeting. I would ask Members to take their place again. I give the floor to Mr Haverbort of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u103	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking tonight about an adaptation of the Environmental Management Act through an initiative proposal by GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. Of course, I would like to begin by congratulating my colleagues on the hard work they have done. An initiative law takes an enormous amount of time and effort. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. This debate lives widely in society and comes back every year. Everyone in this country has an opinion on fireworks. Two years ago, the VVD agreed to the Fireworks Order for the safety of aid workers and residents. With the Fireworks Decision of 2020, we ban fireworks and flares. That's what we did at the time to provide extra protection for aid workers and police officers at the turn of the year and to avoid unnecessary fireworks damage. Because of the corona measures we have not yet been able to test this Fireworks decision in practice and yet cannot evaluate it. Today, the initiative proposal is before us to ban fireworks in its entirety. The VVD is not in favour of the initiative proposal as it stands today. Mr. Chairman. During the roundtable, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office indicated that the additional enforcement that would go hand in hand with a total ban on fireworks would lead to an additional capacity requirement of 30 to possibly up to 150 people. This is independent of the additional costs for the disposal and destruction of seized and illegal fireworks. The same figure is reflected in yesterday's cabinet letter. How do the initiators look at this commitment and these costs? How do they account for this in relation to other issues that require the use of scarce police capacity? How do the initiators view the licensing of all these events? Did they consult with the municipalities? In the response of the VNG we read that the municipalities are keen to be involved in the further development. There are also questions about enforcement and costs. They therefore advise to submit this proposal to the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. Have the initiators done so by now? Has there been a response from that too? Mr. Chairman. We have heard the producers of fireworks say that the cakes, jars and fountains that are currently legal and therefore not prohibited have become much safer in recent years. In addition, the sector communicates about the use of spectacles and studs and the instructions for use are printed with large letters on the packaging. To what extent did the initiators take these developments into account in their considerations? Mr. Chairman. The great social annoyance is with illegal heavy fireworks. That's dangerous. That's the kind of thing that's used to kill aid workers. Since we can't control that, parties are now considering a total ban. The question is whether this will solve the real problem. The good seem to suffer from the evils. The VVD will therefore present an initiative paper on tackling illegal fireworks in the short term. For this debate, however, our focus is on the proposed adaptation of the Environmental Management Act. How, for example, are the initiators looking at the European Pyro-Ridge Directive? What suggestions do they make to the Secretary of State to introduce the forthcoming Environment Council, for example, so that this European Pyro-Directive will help to prevent the import of illegal heavy fireworks? Mr. Chairman. Municipalities can set up fireworks-free areas or impose a local ban wherever they want. Of course, if all the municipalities have the same rules, it's easier to communicate. But not all municipalities are the same. The risk of incidents is different in a city than in a small village on the Veluwe or for example in Drenthe. Organising a big show with fireworks or illuminated drones is easier than the IJ in Amsterdam or at the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam. Why do the initiators not pay more attention to these regional differences? Couldn't local customization work better? Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group also has a few questions about the financial implications of the proposal. The promoters budgeted the compensation for the sector between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million, but do not indicate how to cover it. Can the initiators elaborate on this, as well as on the cost of the local, municipal fireworks shows? There is a lack of resources in the state budget for this too. Then how do the initiators see that covered? Are residents going to be supposed to pay for the shows? I'd like a response from the initiators. Finally, Mr President. In 2020, on the advice of the Security Research Council, we amended the Fireworks Decision with a ban on fireworks and flares. Then, after two years of corona measures, we have not yet seen that ban in practice. That leads to the question: why now? Why do the initiators not choose to evaluate the 2020 ban first in practice? Of course, we await with interest the response of the initiators. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u104	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr Haverbort says: it's actually all a little too early; first we need to look at what things like fireworks and so on have an effect. But no doubt he also read this morning in NRC the article of the director of the Rotterdam-Rhinemond security region. As I said, he spoke on behalf of his 24 colleagues, so on behalf of all the security regions. He says: all attempts to stop the fireworks miserable with old and new, such as a ban on heavy fireworks and fireworks, have hardly produced anything in recent years. If the director of the Rotterdam-Rijnmond security region says so, do you have to conclude at some point that we need to go a step further and simply have a general ban on fireworks? How does Mr Haverbort view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u106	I think I have just said two things about this in my speech. First of all, the numbers are as you can interpret them. I can also understand why the chairman of the Rotterdam-Rhinmond security region says so. But there is also a difference between the regions. I said something about that, too. I think fireworks in a big city is a completely different issue than fireworks in a village somewhere in Groningen or in the region. So Mr Wassenberg and I undoubtedly disagree on the conclusion reached by the chairman of the security region there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u107	I just said that this director spoke on behalf of all security regions, including the safety region of Limburg, including that of Overijssel, including Friesland: all security regions. Mr Haverbort says that the problem is mainly in the big city. That's only partially true. This is perhaps the case when it comes to violence against aid workers; that will undoubtedly be stronger in Rotterdam or The Hague than for example in Groningen, Siddeburen or in Sittard-Geleen. But what does happen is that a lot of people get hurt by fireworks, for example, that they sometimes haven't even turned off themselves. It happens everywhere. This is not about violence; it is just accidents that can happen through fireworks and happen every year. As I said earlier, half of the fireworks victims did not fire fireworks themselves. That's a problem we have to solve, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u108	I think Mr Wassenberg is asking two questions. In the question about the security region, he himself pointed out that the violence surrounding fireworks, which no one is for, is much more real in the big city than in the region. Let me also be crystal clear: in my view, it is true that in 2020 we decided to ban part of the fireworks, the F2 fireworks, apart from the cakes and the jars, in order to enforce and realize more safety for bystanders and residents and aid workers. We are very curious as to what this will look like in practice. After that, I am sure that we will continue to do so, as has already been said this evening, to see what that will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u109	A good speech by Mr Haverbort of the VVD. One thing did trigger me. I thought maybe it would be a good idea to think about it with each other. He states: would it not be better to evaluate that temporary general ban of the past few years first, see what comes out and then go on? But let's say that this evaluation results in that it has actually been very good; of course it could. Well, then it's a shame you're losing that momentum now. My question to the VVD is whether it could also be an option to push through this bill now. Then you also have to evaluate at some point, but then you do have a longer period of evaluation. Then, based on the overall evaluation of several years, you can see if you need to change something. I am very curious to see how Mr Haverbort views that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u110	An interesting thought from Mr Stoffer. But with a normal step-by-step approach, a step back is usually not the most appropriate option. I hear that a bit in Mr Stoffer's speech. So we would see that route differently. Let us first see what this 2020 plan looks like in practice. No one knows what that's gonna look like. No one can see into the future either. I really hope that we can have a corona-free year change with each other next winter and that that will be a great party. But let's do that first. Then we will undoubtedly find each other again in this room to pick up the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u111	I understand that Mr Haverbort does not consider my view to be an overly attractive alternative. But there is also another alternative that Mrs Van der Graaf has put in with me. It also does justice to the possible problems in smaller places, where you can't let those big professional shows take place. How does Mr Haverbort view this? Is that perhaps an alternative way for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u112	That's an interesting thought. I had an exchange of views with Mrs Van der Graaf on this matter in advance. In any case, it gives a lot of thought. I had to think of my own municipality, where a reporting obligation is common in the municipality before you start with carbid. This might have something to do with that. So we should be able to peel that thought further together to see how that works out. But that also applies: I need some time to think about it. I am sure we will be able to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u113	I understand that from the ideology of the VVD, the liberal philosophy, you are not cheering on this bill. I can see that a little bit. But liberalism... The Animal Party also mentioned it: freedom stops when you restrict the freedom of another. And the freedom of others is limited on New Year's Eve. Think of those 700,000 people with lung problems and the people in that area who are also injured. I am curious to see where Mr Haverbort's point of view is, if we have not yet reached it. When are we going to be at that safety limit that there should be a total ban? What else does that take? When are we going to be at that point if we're not now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u114	This is one of the impossible questions in the category. I am very pleased that the Labour Party recognizes and is curious about our liberal ideas. With the decision on the bans, we deliberately agreed in 2020 to get through the year-end safer, less violent and less injured. Again, we are going to experience that coming winter with a lot of interest, and with a little luck corona-free, with each other. But I'm not going to indicate where there might be a limit in the future, because I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u115	Yet you see that the decision you made, which I believe has been a good decision, results in fewer injuries and fewer people who have used illegal fireworks. Then it makes sense to take that next step now, especially now that there seems to be a reasonable degree of support for it. I can imagine you'd do that. I am simply looking for where that point lies for Mr Haverbort. He can describe it as an impossible question, but I also find it interesting to know how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u116	It doesn't change the answer. We made that decision together then. The last two years have been very special. On the one hand, there was less injury. On the other hand, there seems to have been less violence. But there were also many fewer people on the street, because there was also an advice to stay mainly at home. So I cannot possibly weigh what those figures would look like in a normal year, given the Fireworks Decision of 2020. Again, we're very curious about that. I would very much like to look at this in a corona-free year change with Mr De Hoop. Then I'm sure we'll continue the conversation afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u117	Thank you. Then we're going to listen to Mr. Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u118	The new Churchill! Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u119	It's okay. Better a smile than a tear, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u120	I was kidding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u121	She needs reading glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u122	Well, not on my story. Mr. Chairman. Esther Ouwehand said, when I walked up to her to give her a boxing and to wish her success and a pleasant game: Joost, think of the animals. Then I said back, "But I have to think about my son, too." It was funny: on the weekends I was sitting on the couch to see what debates I was going to do this week. I mumbled in front of me: the ban on fireworks. My 12-year-old boy said, "Daddy, no, don't." That made an impression, I must say. That also takes a lot of arguments off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u123	But I do have the impression that this plays in a lot of families.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u124	This calls for an interruption by Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u125	I do not know Mr Eerdmans' son, but I assume that he loves him very much and also wants to protect him. How does Mr Eerdmans look at the fact that a quarter of the injured people are precisely 12-year-old boys? Well, that's what worries you, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u126	Well, like his father, he wears fireworks. I'll take care of that. Same goes for our cat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u127	It's under the bed, too. That's right, isn't it? Those are definitely things you're talking about. As I said about the glasses, I think you can take enough measures for children to do it safely. So do we. Anyway, my little boy said, "Daddy, no, don't." I think this is the opinion of more families in the Netherlands. I love fireworks shows, I tell you the truth. All these years I was there in Harderwijk on the Rooseveltlaan, where my parents lived, also loved to light fireworks and put pots and arrows in the air. Those are beautiful memories, and I cherish them. That's what I like to pass on to my kids. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal is for a total ban on fireworks for consumers, with the exception of the F1 category, the so-called 'fake' and 'fake' fireworks, a beautiful term. After the previously prohibited F3 and F4 categories, F2 is now banned. The Netherlands would then be at the same level as Ireland in terms of firework restrictions, the most stringent country in the world so far in the field of fireworks. When it comes to GroenLinks and the Party for the Animals, old and new are actually reduced to stars and pulling ropes for ordinary people. In our view, this is not a suitable proposal. Several arguments are put forward to support this proposal. In many of the incidents around old and new, the authors say in the explanatory memorandum, fireworks play a prominent role. That sounds plausible. Of course there are a lot of fireworks incidents with old and new, but how many are fireworks related? I asked that question to the mayor in January 2020 when I was a council member in Rotterdam following the last normal year change we had for corona. Turned out what? Only 11% of the recorded incidents during the New Year's Eve were in Rotterdam's police systems as fireworks related. Of course, there are people who can't handle fireworks, but there are many more people who can't handle alcohol. Under the guise of corona, the last two years already had a firework ban in force during old and new, but there was little of that last year. A lot of fireworks went into the air. After all, it is impossible to maintain, if you wish. And what did a round of hospitals show the next day? By far the majority of recordings were alcohol- and to a lesser extent drug-related and therefore not fireworks-related. At the end of 2020, doctors and nurses of the emergency services of the Haaglanden Medical Centre indicated that the impact of fireworks victims on hospitals is very limited. Trauma surgeon Vermeulen of the Burn Center in the Maasstad Hospital indicated that between 1 December 2019 and 1 January 2020, precorona and therefore pre-fireworks ban, only 15 people were admitted to hospitals in the Southwest Netherlands due to fireworks injury. That's two per hospital. He therefore referred to the ban on fireworks as a plan for the stage. The only ban that, according to this expert practice, would make a difference to old and new would be an alcohol ban. And that is, of course, absurd and totally inexcusable and, as far as we are concerned, undesirable. He did realize that, but it indicates that a ban on fireworks for consumers is therefore very disproportionate. I'd like a response from the initiators. Unfortunately, there is massive violence during the turn of the year. Vandalism, arson, assault and, perhaps the saddest, assaulting and assaulting policemen, paramedics and firefighters; your stomach is turning. As far as JA21 is concerned, perpetrators cannot be punished harshly enough. Here, too, the question is: what solves a ban on fireworks? Do you really think that the equipment that lowers itself to this end will be prevented by a ban on fireworks for consumers? Do you think the fireworks that cops are getting kicked with are legal fireworks? What do riots, arson and vandalism have to do with fireworks at all? Turn it around: the only people who would respect a ban on fireworks are those who didn't pose any danger in the first place. I'd like a reflection on this. I call Brussels. That has been a sad epicenter of brutal violence and looting during old and new. Has the ban on fireworks in recent years changed anything about that? No. It just seems to have gotten worse. For some people old and new is a reason to misbehave. And that won't be reduced by a fireworks ban. As mentioned above, the initiators in their law exclude fireworks from the prohibition under category F1. But what do we read in yesterday's letter from the Ministry in connection with the committee debate? Most injuries are caused by heavy illegal fireworks (21%) and by category F1, the fake and fake fireworks (19%). Ergo, most injuries are caused by fireworks that are either banned or not covered by the present bill. That's special. I'd like a response. Finally, the animals. Yeah, they're interfering with fireworks. I told you, our cat is also under the bed on New Year's Eve. But we also do not need a ban on fireworks. Many municipalities already opt for fireworks-free zones, for example around flats, around hospitals, but also around zoos and petting zoos. As far as we're concerned, that's fine. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I'm going through time. I would like to thank the initiators and the support. Greetings for your efforts and for all the work. But JA21 says: attack the rioters, the perpetrators of violence and vandals, as far as we are concerned, including reporting obligations and prohibitions in the annual changes. Deploy the scarce police capacity to maintain the heavy-duty illegal fireworks. Ensure proper information on the risks associated with the firing of fireworks: put on the fireworks. And don't rob all those neat fireworks vendors and dealers. Stop patronizing me, so my son, our son, but also all the other families, can just shoot their rockets with old and new. Finally, accept that education and standards are for parents and not for the State. Keep enjoying a beautiful old and new tradition. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u128	I just have a little correction. Fire arrows are already forbidden. I think Mr Eerdmans means the ornamental pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u129	You also have baby darts. They fall within the F1 package.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u130	Sure. The image is that all these flares are still allowed, but they are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u131	No, we're talking about the fountains.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u132	I would like to give Mr Eerdmans' son a very nice new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u133	Thank you. The most beautiful thing about stabbing remains the flare, if you look at the effect. But aside from that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u134	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u135	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators and their support for this legislative proposal. There's a lot of work and time in that. You also have a subject that is quite alive in society and can bring quite a bit of stirring. We can see that here too in the debate. But it's about something. It's important that we talk about this. I quote the Research Council on Security: 'Old and new is the most dangerous party of the year in many places in the Netherlands'. He concluded that in 2017, and it still is. Take the turn of the year of 2019-2020, the last normal turn of the year we have had. Almost 1,300 people with fireworks injuries were treated in the emergency room or the general practitioner's office. Half of them were under the age of 20 and a quarter were under the age of 12. Half the fireworks victims were bystanders. And was that all illegal fireworks? No, as much as 81% of the fireworks damage was caused by legal fireworks. Half of the injury is caused by decorative fireworks. Unfortunately, that's not just the story of 2019-2020, but the story of every turn of the year we've had. In the same report, the OVV concluded something else, namely that the persistence of the problem at the turn of the year requires that all parties feel the urgency to break this pattern. The Christian Union feels this urgency and therefore supports the legislative proposal that the initiators put down here. For the past two years, with the ban on fireworks, it was again manageable on the street. This is what Arjen Littooij, the director of the Rotterdam-Rhinemond security region, says on behalf of all the other security regions in the country. Certainly, there were still problems, but the large number of fire reports there fell from 700 to 300, more than halved. The police deployment could be halved. Were there at first 1,000 agents needed on the street, this year 500 agents could spend the turn of the year with their loved ones at home. A good step has already been taken in banning the number of types of fireworks, a step that we have supported. The Christian Union fears that we cannot leave it at that. If we do not continue the ban for the last two years, there is a good chance that we will see more misery next year. More violence against cops, more damage and, above all, more fireworks victims. We will then have another debate on this next year. That's exactly the pattern we're going to have to break. The momentum for a general ban on fireworks is now, says the director of the Rotterdam-Rhinemond security region. I would like to repeat those words. This is the time to listen to police, aid workers, doctors and mayors, as well as to the 700,000 people who signed a petition to do something about this. The Christian Union wants the turn of the year and the fireworks tradition to connect people and that old and new is a safe party for everyone. A party with less violence against cops, less damage and less fireworks victims. Can there be no more fireworks at all at the turn of the year? No, as far as we're concerned, we don't. As far as we are concerned, this tradition can be maintained in an organised and safe manner, as the authors also point out. We have proposed an amendment along with Mr Stoffer of the SGP. In the bill, the firing of fireworks is only allowed for professionals who are used to organising fireworks shows with the toughest professional fireworks available. But the number of professionals is limited, as Mrs Van der Plas said. There were 265 pyrotechnicians in 2021, and that number may become tense. For all those municipalities with all these cores would be no place. With the amendment I tabled with Mr Stoffer, we also want to make it possible for the collectives of citizens to apply, under conditions, for an exemption from the ban on fireworks. We want the turn of the year to connect people with fireworks and that it's a safe party for everyone. That is why we propose that fireworks should be reserved for groups of citizens in an organised context. For example, we are thinking of a community association or a village association. They can announce the new year before and with the neighborhood after they have received permission from the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u137	I have a question about the amendment, but I do not know whether Mrs Van der Graaf is ready for it, or whether she would like to mention some more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u138	Please continue your speech and then Mrs van der Plas will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u139	That consent will have to be made subject to conditions. Conditions must be laid down for the sale, storage of fireworks and safe lighting. The mayor must have the authority to identify a location where it can be done. We should continue to work on these matters by general measure of governance. We need to think further about how to shape that exactly. As far as we are concerned, at least the VNG and the police must be involved, but also, of course, the fireworks industry. There should always be the possibility for a mayor not to grant an exemption, for example if he feels that it entails security risks. That consideration really needs to take place locally. This amendment can provide a solution in municipalities with many different cores. Mr De Hoop was just talking about Súdwest Fryslân with 90 cores. 90 municipal fireworks shows in municipalities, where finance is already under pressure: I don't see that happening. In addition, I think it is also very nice for people to take this initiative together in a small-scale way. So it also caters to a feeling that lives among our people. It also responds to the concerns of doctors, aid workers and enforcers about the current unrest and injury that can occur. I see it can work, as in the village of Ten Boer, in my own municipality of Groningen. But also in other regions of the country it brings people together when they organize fireworks in a small-scale organised context. In this way, solidarity is promoted and the nuisance can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u140	Enough about the amendment? I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u141	This is a natural break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u142	I find the amendment interesting in itself, but I do wonder. A private individual should not have more than 25 kilos of fireworks. I wonder how that insurance business goes when a neighborhood association owns more kilos of fireworks. Is that even technically feasible? What about enforcement? For such an event one must also have a permit with all the costs involved. And where are people going to buy fireworks if fireworks are no longer allowed to be sold in the Netherlands? Those are my first questions. Then how does this become possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u143	Since Mrs van der Plas' concerns often concern rural communities, I would like to say to her first of all that if there are places in the country where this can be organised in a good way, that is right there. That's what I think. I am glad that Mrs van der Plas finds the amendment interesting. She is right to ask a number of questions. I also think that this needs to be thought through. That is also why we have chosen in the amendment to further develop this in an AMvB, which allows you to take the time to do so. I also think there should actually be an execution test, and I am going to say something about this in a moment, which the VNG and the police should be looking at. I also think that the fireworks industry should consider how to look at them. Mr Haverbort just put forward an analogy with the obligation to report... I just forgot what for. Oh, the reporting obligation for carbid. I grew up in Overijssel, so I'm gonna have to be forgiven for this. I myself had found an analogy with the Easter fires for which permits are often issued, especially to local and village associations, for which conditions are laid down for liability insurance and for which such insurance should also be possible. That's a really good way to look at this. In the amendment, we do not opt for the licensing system, but rather for an exemption, because that is threshold lowering. Those are all ways to give this a place. As far as sales are concerned, the amendment states that you can regulate sales. The sale is therefore no longer allowed to everyone, but to the people who have been granted an exemption. This also requires further elaboration and reflection, including with the fireworks industry, because I also see the traders who have invested in safe storage. I believe that good solutions can also be sought locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you for the answers. I note from Mrs Van der Graaf that it is something that still needs to be crystallised, but that the amendment is already being tabled in order to alleviate the suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u145	No, that's because we really need to think this through. I agree with the legal system that the proposers have also chosen: you lay down the main line in the law itself. We think this is important..... but you take the time to work out all the details well, with all the parties who can think about this from the practical point of view. Then you also make the law enforceable and enforceable. So it's basically just to make it better. That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u146	But would it not be better, as I asked Mr De Hoop, to anticipate a possible ban, just to make sure that everything is completely in place and only then to do something? In other words, vote against the bill, work it out and then come back with it at another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u147	That is not what we have chosen now. I am very happy to be between the lines by tasting Mrs van der Plas that she might feel like it. But maybe I'm listening too much in her words, because she didn't say that literally either. We have made the conscious choice here to supplement the proposal. I also discussed this with mayors, with people from the Security Council, the VNG and the police. I notice that this is a direction of thought that could well fall into good ground, which would help in enforcement and which is a step in the right direction, but less far-reaching than a total ban. This is an intermediate step, but it is an important step to get a safer old and new one together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u148	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yeah, last question. What does the fireworks industry think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u150	I haven't talked to the fireworks business yet. I did... Well, I'm just saying that a little too soon. A few years ago, I laid down these ideas and had a whole debate on this with the fireworks industry. I said at the time that you should also discuss such a proposal with the fireworks industry, because of course this is about regulating sales in a good way. I don't think you can do that without the industry if you want to do it in a good way. This may require adjustments in relation to how it is now organised. I can imagine. But I think that's fixable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u151	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u152	I listened with approval to Mrs Van der Graaf's story. We received the amendment just before the start of this debate, so unfortunately I do not yet have a crystallized opinion on this. I do have a question. What guarantees of safety are here? At the moment, a fireworks show must be organised by people with specialised knowledge. It'll be released in a minute. It goes to associations. Does that mean that there are no more criteria or are those criteria written down elsewhere? Can Mrs Van der Graaf give me some clarity about that and take away some concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u153	I think that's exactly what you should do in an AMvB. Then it's about conditions around safe and distance. You can think about the one who lights off the fireworks: what do you ask of them? I can imagine that the fire department could play a role locally, and perhaps the fireworks industry itself, in how you do this safely. There are also villages that are already organising this and asking a pyrotechnician to monitor how this takes shape. This is not about the F4 fireworks, so it is the professional fireworks that can be turned off by those specialized people, those pyrotechnicians. We are talking here about categories F2 and F3 fireworks just before the professional terms. You're gonna have to organize that safe distance. You can also think about the moment when you could apply for such an exemption. That needs to be done in time, just to make sure that you have the fireworks you would like to use there available. In this way I hope to have addressed some of Mr Wassenberg's concerns and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u154	I am particularly asking because something is being deleted here, namely those people with specialised knowledge. That's a criterion. But Mrs Van der Graaf does think that something should come in return, that someone who supervises such a thing or such an association would have to meet certain conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u155	Yes. I know someone at... uh... I just lost the name of the municipality, but I do think that's one of the aspects you should look at. You need to think about how you want to rig that up and how you can do this in a safe way. I grew up in the head of Overijssel, in Zwartsluis. There we had a very active fire department in this area. On New Year's Day, all the children from the village were allowed to pick up the fireworks that were there. Whoever picked up the most kilos, got a present for that. That was quite nice. And a round in the fire truck. I think this can get a place in village communities, but before I make final statements about it, I think it's good to ask advice, an execution test, to the VNG, to the police, to the fire department about how you could give this a place in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u156	I've said something about that before. It's not a motion. It's an amendment. It is an amendment to an initiative law that is now before us. I have said before that we all have a responsibility here to make laws that work in practice. Now we are not in favour of the initiative law before us, but it is very clear. It is a very clear law, based on clear principles, namely: it is unsafe; there must be a total ban that applies to everyone living in the Netherlands. That is almost a derivative of Article 1 of the Constitution. This amendment goes quite far. I'm just trying to imagine how that's gonna work in practice. There will soon be a total ban. If you live in a neighborhood or street, as a family or group of friends, you submit a request to the mayor. It's about to be buried under all sorts of requests. They will receive 100 requests in the municipality for this kind of events of groups of citizens who have united, because individuals may not be able to do something anymore, but as a group of citizens you can do something and then the mayor will judge it. My question to Mrs Van der Graaf is to which the mayor must then judge that one event may take place and the other may not. And what does that say about "everyone who is in the Netherlands is treated equally"? I really think this is an amendment that you can ask yourself how we are going to implement it. It's not a motion. It is an actual proposal. That must be better thought-out than Mrs Van der Graaf's response to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u157	I would like to say to Mr Knops that mayors are currently making all these considerations. Do I or do I not allow a bonfire on the beach of Scheveningen? Can it be safe in the neighborhoods, in the villages and in the city of Groningen, where I myself live? At the moment, mayors are making all that consideration. I give them the confidence they can do that. I thought about a lot of things when we drafted this amendment. There are all kinds of questions coming up; I can see that here as well. All these subjects should give you a place. That is why I am calling for an implementation test on this amendment. What are you thinking? How will this work in practice? I have spoken to a number of people who say: this could be a way that the Netherlands can offer a solution, given the existing practice. I do not want to close all this down now in an amendment, at least not at the moment. I don't know how long this lawsuit is gonna take and if there's any other insights in between. Right now, we're choosing to put it this way. The further development will follow later. We do this together with the VNG, the police, the mayors, the security regions, the fire department and everyone who is involved and who knows about this. That's a lot of people in our country. They need to give good advice on how to do this. We want to give that a place in an AMvB, so you standardize it. I would like to add something to the point of enforcement, which Mr Knops has said a great deal about. The current situation is already untenable. It works very well to set clear conditions and to designate a specific place. Such an exemption procedure can also be standardised. That takes away the police's work, so that they can focus their capacity on dealing with the illegal fireworks, the incidents and the major problems that take place during old and new. We're not gonna solve that with a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u159	They call for an overall approach, also in parallel. We'll help them with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u160	We are not talking about bonfires and the powers that mayors have in that regard. We are talking about an initiative legislative proposal that regulates for everyone in the Netherlands a total and total ban on the use of fireworks, with one exception for professionals. I can follow in substance that you want it done by professionals, with security requirements. But that element is now released for certain groups when they apply. I'm predicting that we're about to have some kind of treadmill, where hundreds or thousands of people are going to apply for it. Then the mayors are burdened with a problem, because they may then make the balance that is not made clear in this Chamber. I welcomed the initiators for the clarity of the proposal. I really do not think that this amendment gives the desired clarity. This will allow people to turn off fireworks in half the Netherlands via a back door, while the rest of the Netherlands will not be allowed to do so. Is that what we want? Is that what Mrs. Van der Graaf wants? That's what I'm asking her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u161	I think it is important that consideration is made. I'm sticking to the bill: are we going to organize a municipal fireworks show here or are we going to give... Mr. De Hoop mentioned Súdwest-Fryslân, where it might be difficult with 90 cores to choose where that show takes place. And then the question is whether there are enough professionals to shape it there. We want to offer space in that. We can see at this moment that things are going wrong on a large scale. 1,300 people were treated with fireworks, half of whom were under the age of 20 and a quarter under the age of 12. Half of them were bystanders and 81% were by legal fireworks. We have a big problem. This proposal, this amendment, is a road to fewer victims, to fewer riots on the street, to more safety for the fire department, the ambulances and the police, to less damage, to less eye damage and hopefully to fewer deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u162	Mr Knops, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u163	Just a little more concrete, though. The neighborhood association, many of which are, or the district association, makes a request. There's 100 people coming. That's what they say on such an application form. It's reported on social media. There'll be 200 or 300. They'll call the police and the fire department. Then we still need to maintain it. It doesn't comply with the rules. A lot of bureaucracy. What exactly are we doing? That's what I'm wondering. Then we should just say: "We leave the use of the lighter fireworks in place. Let us maintain and treat the whole of the Netherlands equally. If there are wheeldrivers, we'll take it"? I do not really understand what kind of bureaucracy and regulation pressure we are now tipping over the fence at municipalities. 'Cause they're gonna be able to sort this all out in a minute. That is not the issue in the proposal of the Party for Animals and GroenLinks. But this is caused by the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u164	Then I think I can take away an angel, because it is not our intention to work with great bureaucracy here. We propose it as we propose, namely that we grant the mayor an exemption to allow it. And yes, it will then have to weigh it up. But we're gonna help him or her because we're gonna write down the terms in an AMvB. This creates a clear exemption policy for the country. Then you don't have that randomness anymore. Then you have dealt with the equal opportunities. There's something else I want to say. Because the problems of New Year's Eve aren't just fireworks. That also depends on the combination of alcohol and drugs. During this debate, I just received an e-mail from a nurse to the emergency services who pointed that out to us. I also think that is a good thing to name in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u165	Thank you. Let me take a look at the colleagues to see if there are any really new questions. Because this amendment has been discussed quite a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u166	I think this is an important amendment, which I really do have a question about. Maybe it's already been put in part. I'm trying to ask a new question. Mrs van der Graaf is quite sure that her amendment will solve a lot: less injury and all that sort of thing. She just listed that. I do not think that this is entirely consistent with her own remark that there should actually be an execution test over it. I think it is already very badly related to an initiative law from the Chamber that leads to delays. I think that's quite a curious test. This certainty does not relate to the fact that many important questions that it raises here all need to be further developed in general governance measures. That's one. My second point is this. I can find the proposal somewhat sympathetic. I just said that when Mrs Van der Graaf asked me about it. But I'm trying to follow logic. Mrs Van der Graaf is indeed in favour of the proposal. It is therefore in favour of a total ban on consumer fireworks. It's possible. We differ on whether that is wise. But we've had that debate. The amendment then makes it possible for F3 fireworks, which is already illegal, to be used by people without specialised knowledge. Now that I've read this better, I'm a little out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u167	Indeed, our amendment maintains the substance of the legislative proposal and provides an exception. It is an addition to the proposal that is now before us. I had just had a discussion with Mr Wassenberg on whether you could therefore impose conditions on the expertise of those who have to work with it. Yeah, I think so. I think it is important to think carefully about the exact demands you make. I'm also trying to keep "shoemaker, stick to your read." I think it is good to have the practice and the experts we have in our country, which we have quite a lot of people here, give us good advice on this. I don't think the execution test is so crazy myself. I also know that the proposers have a performance test. This also emerged in the written round. I would like to ask them whether they are prepared to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u168	Mrs Van der Graaf may, of course, ask the proposers. But I still think it is a bit crazy that an amendment is being tabled at 11 o'clock, which is rather radical, which can at least have great consequences and raises a lot of questions. Then I think it would have been nicer if it had been there earlier and if it had been thought about earlier with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and with all the others that Mrs Van der Graaf rightly mentions. Anyway, that's not up to me. I'm just trying to follow logic. You're in favour of a total ban on consumer fireworks. There is something in place, namely that heavier fireworks are now permitted legally and perhaps also by the local association or any collective. I simply cannot follow that very well, especially since one of the arguments that is always mentioned is that it must become easier for enforcement. Then I don't quite see why the enforcer should know which neighborhood collective in one street does have a permit to set off F3 fireworks, while a municipality down the road may not have been granted an exemption at all, and to another municipality down the road an exemption, but only for that street, in respect of consumer fireworks F2. I doubt whether this will become more unambiguous, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u169	I think it is important for the police that the exemption procedure is a standardized procedure and that you can trust that it has gone through in a good way and that you have that security. Then the police also know: here this is allowed and there it is allowed. Then they don't have to go anywhere with their limited capacity, but can focus on the incidents that exist. If they have that insight in advance, it helps them to use their capacity better to do so. I understand Mr Van Nispen and I also hear the debate. I'd be happy to consider whether you should give some of the conditions you would like to set a place in the amendment to the bill. We have now chosen not to do so and to work it out at AMvB. I have just given my argument for that. But I am always willing to listen to Mr Van Nispen when he says that he would like to have some more certainty about what will get a place in that AMvB. If that requires adjustments to the amendment itself, to the legal text or to the explanatory memorandum, then I am always prepared to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u170	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u171	I would also like to see a response to this amendment by the proposers, but also by the rulers. I have already asked them whether they are prepared to include this amendment in the implementation test they have now taken. Mr. Chairman. I have just asked whether this is the solution to every problem around the turn of the year. No, I do not think that anyone in this room thinks that this will be the case, but the annual figures from the hospitals, the annual violence against agents and the call from the fire department, the police, ophthalmologists and 700,000 citizens must be taken seriously. That is what the initiators do with this law, and that is what Mr Stoffer and I have tried to do with our amendment. I have a few more questions for the rulers. What steps are they prepared to take or intend to take in order to make the next year safer? With regard to a possible shift from the sale of fireworks to neighbouring countries, which is unfortunately already taking place under the current rules: what possibilities does the government see for agreeing with Germany and Belgium to limit the purchase of fireworks there, for example by using a resident criterion? I also read this example in the draft legislation of the proposers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u173	I hear Mrs. Van der Graaf talking about these injuries all the time, but if I heard it right, she used figures from 2019-2020. That is, of course, the year in which F3 fireworks was still legal. It's already forbidden. So you can't ban it again. The fact that there were no fireworks in the last Corona nights and the number of injuries went down has, of course, also to do with the fact that there were lockdowns. So there was no catering open, there were no parties, there were no meetings. That is not, of course, directly related to the fact that fireworks were no longer allowed to be lit off. We ourselves are getting quite a lot of signals from doctors in the emergency room, but also from nurses who say: 'Let them stop with the ban on fireworks, because we are dealing on the New Year's Eve with comatose young people who have been drinking themselves to death and people who have fallen off the bike drunk or otherwise have been injured with alcohol or drugs. That is what attention should be paid to at the turn of the year in general. Stop staring at that ban on fireworks, because that's no use to us." How does Mrs. Van der Graaf feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u174	I share Mrs van der Plas' analysis entirely, of course, when it comes to what these problems are about on that New Year's Eve night. They are not just fireworks; I have just said something about them. Drinking and drugs and their combination lead to very big problems. If that goes hand in hand with fireworks, then very dangerous situations arise. We can see that, too. I therefore agree with Mrs van der Plas that this requires a major approach. The Christian Union is in favour of a drug-free society, and I welcome every step of the way to tackling the problems in this area. Of course Mrs Van der Plas is right; in 2019 and 2020 that F3 fireworks was indeed still there and so you can no longer fully apply those figures to now. But I do see that in recent years, even during that lockdown and with the special measures that were there and which also caused a great deal of unrest in our society, fewer people have been killed. I think that's important. Then I quote the director of the Rotterdam-Rijnmond Safety Region. There it has led to half fewer fire reports, and half fewer agents were needed on the street. And that's a fact, too. So now we're thinking, "Pack it up."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u175	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u176	Yes, but in my opinion this is not just about the fact that fireworks were not allowed to be turned off; that has to do with the fact that there were just fewer movements on the street because we were in lockdowns during those year changes. Mrs Van der Graaf also says that, of course, it is not just the fireworks victims. On average, four people arrived at the emergency rooms during the last two years. That's average over all the posts, isn't it? So there are also posts that have something more, but you also have posts that have nothing at all. That's four to five. That is 2% to 3% of the total. Then it is said: that is 70% less. Yeah, from 2% to 3%. So we're actually talking about very small numbers. Each one is too much of a bit. I totally agree with that, but we should not make it bigger than it is. I would like to say once again that I think exactly: let's focus on excesses during nights like this. Those are the old and new nights, but that may also happen during a queen's night. Let us concentrate on this, because that is where the big problem lies, and not on the marking of a few ornamental pots. That's what I keep saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u177	Mrs van der Plas has not heard me say here that this proposal is going to solve all the problems. That's not what I'm advocating here. I do hope it will lead to far fewer casualties, fewer injuries and fewer deaths. So to deal with those problems on New Year's Eve, you need a lot more, but you also need to look at the fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u178	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Hagen, from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u179	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that today I am replacing my colleague Hanneke van der Werf. Mr. Chairman. The tradition of firing fireworks at old and new is unfortunately accompanied by great damage to nature, animal and the environment, fireworks damage and violence against aid workers. This is unacceptable to D66 and, as a policy, we must do something about it, starting by expressing appreciation for the initiators and the staff, who have spent a great deal of time in a proposal to deal with this problem. However, the key question remains whether this law provides the solution. After all, it is not a choice between continuing on the old ground or banning everything, but between a total ban or a partial ban. During the round table discussion, OVV President Dijsselbloem spoke clearly about the dilemma D66: the partial ban is more precise and the total ban is clearer. To make a choice, three things are at the heart of our assessment: which option is best to minimise the number of victims, which option is best to maintain, and which alternatives are there to offer in both scenarios? Mr. Chairman. First of all, the victims. On the first day of the new year, the emergency services are filled with fireworks victims again. Almost half of them are bystanders, and the proportion of victims under 20 is often even higher. In the last two years, Corona has led to a total ban on fireworks, resulting in significantly less damage and casualties. That would argue for a total ban. A fear of a total ban, however, is an increase in heavy illegal fireworks, resulting in more serious injuries. In response to questions from my group, the initiators point out that serious injuries were also less common in the past year. I have four questions about this. Have the applicants also looked at countries where a similar ban has already been introduced? How does the Minister of Justice and Security assess the risk of more serious injuries caused by illegal fireworks? What steps have been taken at European level to combat this? And should this whole ban come into effect, is it prepared to engage with neighbouring countries in order to prevent the sale of fireworks to Dutch people? Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. The turn of the year increasingly demands the deployment of agents, MEs, boas and fire and ambulance people. The story of police and mayors is known. Distinction between one bang and the other is impossible to do. They say: rather a total ban; then it is clear what we must maintain. At the same time, last year, we saw that a ban could be an excuse for some people to behave badly. The police are then more concerned with protecting aid workers and intervening in excesses than with enforcing the ban. Have the initiators also considered the behavioural effects of their proposal and how it could develop over the years? Mr. Chairman. The bill adds an article to the Environmental Management Act prohibiting fireworks of categories F2 and F3 for persons other than those with specialised knowledge. The initiators leave it to the Minister to determine by general measure of administration who is to be understood by persons with specialised knowledge. It is already the case that fireworks from the category F4 can only be turned off by professionals, but that is regulated in the Fireworks Decision. Why didn't the initiators choose to add categories F2 and F3 to that scheme? In what way should the concept of "persons with specialised knowledge" be further developed in their view? Is it true that the law allows for this to be set up more easily than it is now arranged for fireworks professionals? And I ask the Secretary of State of IenW: how does she view this? On the basis of this law, could it, through the intended AMvB, arrange for some kind of fireworks certificate to be issued, aimed at firing fireworks in categories F2 and F3? Finally, Mr President. Of course, there is a cost involved in this proposal. The applicants rightly point out the costs that will be saved by a ban. But with this there is no cover for compensation for entrepreneurs or for alternatives, such as local fireworks shows. The costs of a compensation scheme alone are estimated at EUR 100 million to EUR 150 million. What means should be used to cover this, according to the applicants? Can the Minister and the Secretary of State state state whether they agree with this assessment? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u180	I'm trying to listen very carefully, but I actually missed the choice of D66. Or have I not listened carefully to Mrs Hagen? Hasn't she made a statement on how D66 stands in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u181	I think Mr De Hoop has heard me very well, because I am setting out a dilemma. There's a debate for that. If I wanted to be for or against, I could have a voter at my seat, too, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u182	Obviously. I was very curious at the beginning of Mrs Hagen's speech. She then said: one is clearer and the other is more logical or something like that. I don't remember exactly, but she was talking about more precise. What did Mrs Hagen mean when she said the one thing was more precise? I understand that a general ban is clearer, but what exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u183	More local, I think. It's just much more precise at the point where you want to determine it, while it's more obvious when you ban it altogether. There is still a nuance in that, because we would also like to see what alternatives there are. That's exactly where our dilemma lies. I do not therefore have a very precise answer to the question as to how we stand on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u184	I'm always very, very clear myself. Mrs Hagen outlined in her dilemma that there has been less illegal fireworks in the last two years and that there has been less injury. It seems to me that it is quite logical to consider this dilemma now. What's the biggest question mark for D66? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u185	I hope you have listened to the rest of my speech. Because I have asked a number of questions to the initiators. There's just a dilemma between the damage it does on the one hand and the fact that, for example, it has to be realistic. I still don't have a complete answer to that. For example, we are still waiting for the execution test. That is why I have used this debate mainly to listen to the positions with great interest. I look forward to the answers given by the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u186	Thank you, Mrs Hagen. Then we go to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I'm replacing my colleague Madlener tonight. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's always nice to see MPs in box K. These are members of parliament who exercise their right of initiative. In that respect: compliments to the initiators! But then it also stops with the compliments, because the content of this bill is anything but appealing to the PVV. It is a fireworks ban, an initiative law of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. The question is what this law is really for. In short, in order to protect humans, animals and the environment, as the initiators also point out in the documents. Firstly, this bill does not achieve that at all. Secondly, this bill does achieve that a beautiful Dutch tradition will be destroyed in one go and the Dutch fireworks industry will be turned upside down. Mr. Chairman. It's a patronizing bill that doesn't touch either side. Moreover, the majority of Dutch people are not waiting for a firework ban at all. People love to put off some fireworks once a year during old and new, so let's keep a left-wing minority from breaking this tradition, while a majority of Dutch people want to keep it alive. Mr. Chairman. A ban on fireworks is nothing new either, because we have already had a ban on fireworks twice before, during the last two years' changes during corona. What happened then? How did that go? Well, the first time, at the turn of the year 2020/2021, there were still 400 wounded. One could say: that is a lot, given that there was a firework ban and it was also at the time of the corona measures. But the second time we had a fireworks ban last year, so, the number of wounded has increased further and doubled again to as much as 800. In other words, we had a firework ban last year which prevented fireworks from being bought, people were not allowed to have it and people were not allowed to turn it off, but the number of wounded was still increasing again. How is that possible, so I ask the initiators. Mr. Chairman. In response to this initiative proposal, the public prosecutor writes: the fireworks that are the main threat are illegal fireworks. So that's already illegal. What's forbidden, you can't ban it again. We don't need another bill for that right now. If something is forbidden, but still causes a problem, it is a question of enforcement. But instead of the initiators doing something about it, about enforcement and the like in the case of illegal fireworks, they want to actually take away their legitimate fireworks from good citizens, who want to celebrate neatly old and new. It's actually the kid with the bathwater toss. According to the public prosecutor, last year there was no less but more illegal fireworks, which are also getting bigger, heavier and more dangerous. And that, yes, when there was already a firework ban. A ban on all fireworks, while the illegal, heavy fireworks are only getting worse: how can that be, I ask the initiators? I have a few figures to support this. In 2019, without a fireworks ban, 61,000 kilos of illegal fireworks were seized. By 2020, with a fireworks ban, that quantity doubled to 123,000 kilos. Another year later, in 2021, also with a ban on fireworks, even more illegal fireworks were seized, namely 206.000 kilos. Yeah, you heard right. Summering: we have more illegal fireworks, bigger and heavier fireworks, an increasing number of wounded and all with a firework ban. I can't explain it. So now, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the initiators want to protect people, animals and the environment with a ban on fireworks. Can they explain exactly how? Then what's the effect of that? The prosecution also says that "an overall ban on fireworks will not have a direct effect on the actual risk of injury or worse." In other words: then this bill is nothing but symptom control. How do the initiators react to this? In fact, the D.A. is also warning of a waterbed effect. It will simply mean that this bill will allow more people to go to other countries, such as Germany, Belgium, but also Poland, to buy even more and more illegal fireworks in order to set them off here, as we have seen over the past year. Let us be honest, of course, this is not for the benefit of safety, which the initiators are proud of. And it is devastating for the Dutch fireworks industry, which simply sees the livelihood disappear in favour of traders abroad. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the consequences for the fireworks industry. The initiators are talking about an annual turnover of 80 million for the retail trade and 40 million for the wholesale trade. The industry itself warns that most fireworks entrepreneurs are engaged in seasonal trade and that this turnover really needs to be able to survive at all. That means that these healthy companies with this bill just go bankrupt, get their necks kicked. And it's purposeful. And let's face it: behind all these companies are just hard-working entrepreneurs, their employees and all their families, who see their income disappear. The initiators are talking about a compensation scheme of between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million. It's a tissue for the bleeding. The industry itself says that this is 'absolutely inadequate'. It would rather be EUR 420 million. That's right, I'll ask the initiators. How do they feel about that? It's quite a difference. Mr. Chairman. I understood during the preparation of the debate that there is currently no majority for this bill in this House. Good. Let's keep it that way. Let us preserve the Dutch fireworks tradition and let us also maintain the Dutch fireworks industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then we'll go to Mr. Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u189	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of short, I agree with the compliments that many people have already given to the initiators and all those involved. Turning to the content, let me make it clear that the SGP is finished with the fireworks nuisance. That's what we've been for a long time. We don't believe in the SGP, either, in driving away evil spirits from fireworks. As far as we're concerned, we don't have to. We do see that the stabbing of legal fireworks causes hundreds of injuries every year, including among innocent passers-by. For example, a quarter of the number of victims is caused by legal decorative fireworks. Tens of thousands of pulmonary patients, it has been mentioned earlier, suffer from air pollution during the turn of the year. A part of the Dutch and a lot of animals have enough of all the noise and nuisance. We must be very clear to each other that part of the nuisance at the turn of the year is not related to the setting off of legal fireworks. There is therefore simply a need for other measures. But part of that nuisance is written on the conto of legal fireworks. We want to do this, including from the SGP. But the measures taken so far do not meet, as far as we can see. We will therefore also assess the present initiative proposal with a positive approach. As a 100-year-old party, we like traditions, but fireworks policy needs to be modernised as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Eerdmans, I have no sons, but only daughters. They didn't give me any warnings, so I don't have that moral dilemma. But I do have some important questions. The first issue focuses on enforcement issues and the other on the possibility of giving more space for fireworks events by, for example, neighbourhood associations. Before agreeing to a national ban on fireworks, the SGP considers it important to have a clear picture of the enforcement aspect. You saw that during the last year's changes, when the temporary ban on fireworks was in force, there was clearly less fireworks, but it still happened. In addition, the corona measures were still in place at the time and perhaps fewer people went on the streets. This aspect is ignored in the note on the basis of the report. In any case, this means that enforcement will be a very important task. The proposers recognise that a permanent ban on fireworks rather than temporary bans require more measures to make the enforcement of the ban more effective. What does that mean for the police, the ILT and municipalities? Exactly what measures are needed? Is there sufficient capacity for that? And what contribution could special investigators make, as we requested earlier from the Chamber? The initiators have asked the police to perform a quick scan of the necessary enforcement capacity. The VNG would do an execution test. I'm guessing we haven't received those pieces yet, or I shouldn't have looked closely. I see the initiators nodding, so I think those pieces are still heading our way. I think it's very important to have that in mind. I would like to hear the reaction of the proposers, but also of the elected rulers. My question to the rulers is therefore whether they see opportunities, for example, for agreements with neighbouring countries on the sale of F2 and F3 fireworks to Dutch people. The SGP notes that part of society attaches importance to the fireworks tradition. Of course, you can stick your head in the sand, but if you ignore that, you can get it back as a boomerang in compliance and enforcement. The question is, of course, and that is a very difficult dilemma for us: how can we do justice to it in a good way? In the written round, the SGP referred to types of F2 fireworks which appear to cause relatively few victims and may be well distinguished from other types of fireworks. I understand that, from the point of view of enforcement, the initiators and the Council of State are not keen on granting exceptions to the ban on fireworks, but I can also imagine that there are safe fireworks that are clearly distinguishable from others. My question is whether it would be a passable route from the point of view of enforcement to make an exception. Or should we note that this distinction is simply not to be made up for in practice? I'd love to hear it. The authors make it clear in the note following the report that they expect a lot from organised fireworks shows by professional users. If such a show would be organized in every municipality, you need at least 345 professional users already. In the Netherlands, if I am correct, we have about 2,200 cores. Then there's gonna be a lot more. I don't think we have the 345 professional fireworks plugs, and the 2,200 definitely don't. That's why I think this is pretty hard. I am very curious how the initiators see this difficult point. Mr President, I would like to take you to Vierhouten. I don't know if you know it. I take it that Mr De Hoop knows it; I think it is almost sacred ground for the Young Socialists. A lot of people have been there at one of the campsites. Maybe the young GroenLinksers will be there these days. But something else is happening in that village. The village association organises a fireworks show every year on a football ground next to the village. Every resident can buy a share of €17.50. Companies can sponsor it. The municipality also always buys a number of shares. It's my own congregation. I am actually proud of that beautiful initiative, for which the municipality grants a permit. There's a professional company involved. But I can imagine that such an event, but in a more low-threshold form, will be chosen for setting off F2 and F3 fireworks. As far as I'm concerned, there's got to be more room for this kind of fireworks show in central places in a municipality. As far as I'm concerned, the fireworks don't have to be turned off by those extremely professional users. Under conditions, there should be room for village and neighbourhood associations or local fireworks clubs to arrange this on the basis of a permit. Yesterday I was approached by Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. We have discussed this for quite a long time, and together we have tabled an amendment to give shape to this possibility of exemption. In the interrupting debates with Mrs Van der Graaf, I have seen the dilemmas that exist. We see them too; we have also talked about them. Our approach is that we can give it good hands and feet with such a general measure of governance. As far as we are concerned, this is a golden middle road which would, on the one hand, do justice to the objections to fireworks and, on the other hand, do justice to the part of society that is very close to the fireworks tradition. I would very much like to hear how the proposers, but also the rulers, look at this. Are the proposers prepared to take a positive look at the amendment in conjunction with the VNG and the police? Do they want to ensure that the UNG takes the said proposal into the execution test that is still coming our way? I think that this fits very well in the working method committee of my group chairman, Mr Van der Staaij. We are looking not only at the legal soundness of amendments, but also, above all, at their feasibility. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I believe that tackling illegal fireworks should continue to be a priority. I would very much like to hear from the rulers how they are working on this problem with renewed energy, which I think is the biggest problem. I am also thinking of the booze and drugs that have emerged earlier. In my contribution I have focused mainly on the fireworks themselves. If I remember correctly, I also heard Mr Knops say: would it help to consider that heavy fireworks as a weapon under the Act of Arms and Ammunitions? Mr President, that was my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u190	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. And finally, we are going to listen to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u191	I hope you guys are still a little excited. It's almost 11:00. We'll be right through it. Just a few more minutes. I'm gonna blow! Sorry, silly. First of all, of course, the compliments to the initiators for submitting a complicated legislative proposal which is quite a loose end. I'm also complimenting the staff. The people behind the scenes who are never in the foreground also work very hard. That was the last compliment I'm going to give on this proposal tonight. You noticed, of course, that I am not in favour of this bill. Citizens of the Netherlands, and especially the fireworks enthusiasts of the Netherlands. A knife is not a dangerous weapon. If you cut a piece of meat with it in a safe way, there's nothing to worry about. However, when someone uses a knife in the wrong way or starts stabbing someone, it is dangerous. That's not because of the knife an sich, that's because of the person who uses it. Knives in a knife block or in a classroom don't just fly around to injure people. I hope we all agree on this. The same applies precisely to decorative fireworks. Mr. Chairman. We're having a debate here on fireworks. During the turn of the year, the vast majority of the Netherlands sits together with friends and family. They watch the annual New Year's conference at night, have a drink, have a bite to eat, go to gourmets. And at 0am they go out with an oil ball to stab off a few ornamental pots, have a glass of champagne with the neighbors on the street and enjoy the beautiful fireworks. This is how most of the Netherlands celebrates the turn of the year. Let us not forget that and pretend that the turn of the year in the Netherlands is one big mess. There are a number of excesses, such as burning cars, rioting, destruction, violence against aid workers and firing heavy, illegal fireworks. The people who just celebrate the turn of the year with normal sense, I want to put a heart in the ring. They're gonna get hurt by that little group of weirdoes. Unfortunately, that's always the case. I have to hand the anti-fire lobby one thing. By influencing public opinion for many years, often with outright disinformation, it is now simply called normal decorative fireworks in one breath with violence, destruction and riots. That's totally wrong. "Fireworks must be prohibited, for riots, destruction and violence." The ornamental pots that we are now allowed to cast off by God's grace have nothing to do with the excesses during the turn of the year. No matter how terrible, the single hand and the few fingers that are blown off at the turn of the year are not due to the fireworks that are just allowed. The few dead, no matter how horrible, is not because of the ornamental pots. They're caused by heavy, illegal fireworks. People who get eye damage during old and new, have often also illegally used heavy fireworks. And that's already forbidden. You can't ban this again. For those who use legally smaller fireworks, we need to bet much more on the fireworks. Victims care about this. We also introduced the car belt once to prevent injuries. We didn't abolish the car. More and more people wear a bicycle helmet to prevent injury. They're not putting the bike out the door. If the injury is caused by the ornamental jar, there are often alcohol or drugs in play, or there is unsafe firing of fireworks, non-compliance with safety rules or no wearing fireworks. If they had worn fireworks, they probably wouldn't have ended up in the emergency room. If they had just turned off safe fireworks, they probably wouldn't have ended up in the emergency room. Mr President, the nuisance of the bang in the days before New Year's Eve is not caused by the legal decorative fireworks either. This popping up for the allowed time comes from people, often children or young people whose parents seem to be okay with their offspring bringing despair to the neighborhood, and from people who don't care about the rules. Fireworks are already forbidden. You can't ban it again. Fireworks for old and new, New Year's Night, are already forbidden. You can't ban it again. That just needs to be maintained. Cracking, setting fire to cars, smearing aid workers with fireworks, destroying: it's already forbidden. It just needs to be maintained. It has nothing to do with those ornamental pots you buy from the bikemaker or the garden center. It has to do with mentality. It has to do with poorly-educated young people, poorly-educated people, who have no moral sense whatsoever. Let's invest in that! Why do millions of people in the Netherlands have to pay for this? Two thirds of the Dutch are against a ban on ornamental fireworks. Why do the fireworks vendors have to pay for this? Because a relatively small group of people is anti fireworks, should most of the good-willing Netherlands, which simply enjoys the fireworks tradition once a year, be punished? However, I would ask the Minister how the next year will ensure the safety of our aid workers and how the excesses, the illegal fireworks and the violation of the rules will be maintained at the turn of the year and what is necessary for that purpose. Because that's what this is about. Not the ornamental pots, and we all know it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the initiators. Would you like to withdraw this bill and put it on a safe society, put energy into reducing alcohol abuse, especially in this kind of nights? Because that is what the Netherlands in the majority really needs. One final question to the proposers. I have seen that the internet consultation has resulted in almost 15,000 responses. Of those, 10,000 people are against the bill. In my quick math, that's 82%. I am curious to see what the proposers have done with the input of the internet consultation. Thank you, that's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u192	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. A brief question from Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u193	Mrs van der Plas believes that the ornamental pots are not the major problem in terms of the unrest and the security issue. I ask Mrs van der Plas how she looks at the fact that many fireworks victims are victims of legal decorative fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u194	As far as I'm concerned, it's very simple. Read the instructions for use, use a fire fuse, put on fireworks and keep your distance. I think the number of victims will go way down. It often just has to do with insecurity. One is in a bit of a roaring mood and wants to be a little tough maybe. Yeah, I get that. If you just stick to the rules, it can happen one day, but people also fall off their bikes every day. It could happen, but I think it would stop a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u195	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u196	I thank the initiators and the support, the spokesmen, the gentleman in the public gallery and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. It was a nice sight to see someone who followed the whole debate. In consultation with the initiators, we are going to determine a time to follow up on this legal treatment. You'll hear that, of course. I thank the support and close the meeting. Get home!
