ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the debate on the Act on the Adoption of the Fourth Extension of Temporary Measures Covid-19 (35979). I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as colleagues in the Chamber and visitors to the public gallery. It's very nice to have visitors again. I would also like to welcome the viewers at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt for his contribution. I would like to discuss the following with my colleagues. We had two debates on corona not so long ago, of course, and I would ask colleagues to really focus on this issue and on the arrangement, which we have just agreed to discuss at Mr Omtzigt's request. I would like to agree to really leave other discussions out of that, otherwise we will be repeating debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u2	I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement began so hopefully with the opening sentence: "The democratic rule of law is the foundation of our society." If you read further, however, there is something missing from that agreement. These are fundamental rights. Without fundamental rights, there is no democratic rule of law, because if you do not protect them, you have arbitrariness. That is also the reason why we have unfortunately been canceled because of an internal corona contamination still waiting for some beautiful paintings of the Constitution here, on the wall of the House of Representatives. This is not about the birth of the king, but about the principle of equality that colleagues submit an initiative law, or about the right to property, the right to association, the right to assembly, the right to privacy and the right to family life. There is a second thing missing from the coalition agreement. There is no chapter on corona policy. There is also no paragraph or paragraph on the long-term corona policy. It doesn't say anything about the strategy. Moreover, in addition to 300 million for pandemic preparedness and a piece of extra financial assistance, this minister will not be called upon to make any extra money available for the corona policy, even though it has already cost 80 billion. Today we are talking about an essential part of the strategy. That's the Temporary Law measures covid-19. I don't really know any other laws that stand for "temporarily." As a tax spokesperson, I do know temporary tax increases, and I can assure you that they always last forever. That is why this law states that it must be resubmitted to the Chamber every three months. That's not wrong. There is a major violation of fundamental rights. This also means that the government must be as cautious as possible in dealing with violations of these fundamental rights. A number of motions have been passed on this and I wonder what happened to it. One motion concerns the fundamental rights test. Each measure adopted must be subject to a review of how fundamental rights are affected. The second motion is about a discussion with vaccinees and non-vaccines. What do these people expect? How are they in there? For the gaps that we see in society are deep and wide, and can continue to fade for a long time. That's not a few thousand protesters anywhere. That's millions of people making different choices. Democracy only works when minorities are protected. I'll go over the two things that are going on today. Are we saying yes to this extension? The Minister is already looking at me: the extension was from 1 December to 1 March. I believe that GroenLinks is going to propose that we should have the extension submitted in advance. I think it would be useful to talk about it earlier. And if you look at me, I will look at this differently than if this extension had been presented at the end of November instead of now. If we vote against this law next Tuesday, the law will expire at that time. Not with retroactive effect, but at that time. And are we saying yes or no to the sudden shortening of the time limits of the corona pass? I'm talking about halving the corona repair certificate to 180 days and shortening it; until now it's unlimited if you have a double vaccination but from now on it's nine months for proof. Let me begin with the test on fundamental rights. Is there an emergency at the moment? At the beginning of the pandemic there was an emergency. There was a major excess mortality that started in Brabant. Thousands of people died extra and at the end of last year there was still a period of high excess mortality. Over-death means just tens of thousands of families who have to bury people. So that's serious. But at the moment, according to the CBS, there is under-mortality. The Omikron variant, partly because you are vaccinated and less often get sick, eventually leads to a few people dying extra a day. Is the care overloaded? Yes, it is very burdened but there is no emergency. On December 16th we were shown a graph of the RIVM. Today, without measures, there would be 4,000 people on the ice and 2,000 with the measures we would take. There's 200 of them. If in your estimate you are 90% to 95% wrong, then the model is wrong or something is wrong. The only thing we don't know 100% for sure is whether there is long-term damage to health. Do we know how long long covid lasts? Do we know how bad that is with the omikron variant? In all honesty: we do not know that; that is not to be said with certainty. It is therefore a question of whether this law is necessary at the moment. As far as I am concerned, there are two possible answers to that. The first answer would be that it makes sense to have this law. This would be the case if the government were to be very reluctant to use the measures underneath. That would be the case if they called their Irish or Danish colleagues, who, whenever possible, scaled down the measures. Denmark abolished the corona ticket in September, introduced it again in November and abolished it again yesterday. They say that they see how seriously these fundamental rights are restricted and that this should not last a day longer than necessary. With this they retain the support, because they don't know what's going on in the pandemic in six months or a year. They hope, of course, that the pandemic will be over, but you don't make evidence on hope. If the government would say that, it could extend the law, but the Dutch government seems to be doing the opposite. There are two toolboxes. I'm going to use a quote from the Prime Minister now. The first toolbox contains measures that do not affect civil rights: good ventilation in schools, CO meters and mouth caps everywhere for visitors in nursing homes and hospitals. This is happening very slowly in the Netherlands. Compared to other countries, we are simply lagging behind. These are exactly the kind of measures that require a lot of planning and which require hard work. That didn't happen enough. In addition, the box of which the government says: fill it up; throw in 2G, throw in 3G and let us enter a lockdown every now and then. We were the only country in the Union with a lockdown-like measure in January. In the list of 50 countries in The Economist, we were in place 50 as the last; we were the country that had the most restrictions on normality in November. So we had more restrictions than China, but in China normality is different. We had the most limitations to normality. That's not where you want to stand in a pandemic. My question to the government is therefore: why do we still want this law? Do we want this law to use it as much as possible, or are we going to enter it now? Are we also going to subject all the measures we have taken to a fundamental rights test? And do I hear why it's necessary? If that is not the case, then the government has not complied with its legal obligation to review fundamental rights. Mr. Chairman. What fundamental rights are these? Then you must remember the right to a meeting. You can't meet a lot of people. Fortunately, that number is now slightly higher. Of course, that hurt a lot at weddings, at funerals or just at parties that got canceled. You are also talking about the right of ownership, for example the right of ownership of the cafe owner. If he has to refuse a third of his clients, that could be the difference between a normal existence leading a business and a business going bankrupt. A government that forbids this kind of business or even closes a store is seriously affecting property rights. There are also some social and cultural rights. I could look at D66s for that. Shutting down a cinema or a theatre, preventing people from visiting these places for a long time, and actually closing or not making available indoor sports accommodation for people who do not have 3G evidence, is a serious violation of their rights. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what direction he intends to take and whether, with the current state of the pandemic, there is, therefore, an emergency situation such as that of November, but the current one is such that this law would be necessary. That includes a second question. At the beginning of the pandemic, the government put corona on the A list. This means that it is a disease that is severely contagious or can disrupt the entire healthcare system. That's what it did at first. But the mortality of corona is now much lower. This is due to greater immunity in society and better treatment methods, and there are other reasons for this. The fatality rate was above 1%, but now seems to dive to 0.1% or 0.2%, according to British research; according to the Dutch figures it may be even lower. Then it comes close to a flu. How does the government reconsider whether or not to place or not to maintain corona on the A list? Mr. Chairman. The second is to limit the validity of the corona ticket. That won't be necessary. As mentioned earlier, Ireland and Denmark have abolished it. Spain does not use it in many regions. That's where the region determines how to use it, and that's where it's actually only used as a travel scheme. There's one more thing. Why don't we? Why does the government choose to say in the answers to Parliamentary questions that within a few days half a million people, including a lot of nurses who have been double vaccinated before 1 May but have not received a booster and people who have been ill six months ago lose their corona admissions? I would say: government, if you do it this way, then you are sure that you are destroying the support within the Dutch people for measures in fast-track shipping yourself. Come back from that and come up with a plan to reduce and not implement the corona measures, like Ireland and Denmark, within a few weeks. That is why I supported the JA21 motion and the SGP. Mr. Chairman. I've already referred to the RIVM models. The RIVM model is so special that as a statistician I could say something about it, but I would prefer to refer to what the police think of the RIVM models at the moment. The NCTV documents, which we received from the coordinator of security in the Netherlands, state that the police are challenging the models of the RIVM. The police say: it's actually crazy to think that people who don't have a corona pass don't crawl together. I've been to football clubs and I can tell you that if you close a stadium, people with 50 men will sit in an unventilated living room and watch the game with all of them. That's very cozy. There's also quite a bit of beer involved in the region where I live. Of course, that's not great "proof" against infections. Probably the stadium is even safer. The police say the measures are counterproductive and ask for an adaptation of the models. If the police ask, who would I be to not do that? Mr. Chairman. Since the RIVM models need to be adapted, I also ask for something else. That is to have the motion on over-death not carried out by the RIVM and the CBS, but set up by an independent committee of scientists, so that we can see what killed these 30,000 people and where serious health damage has occurred. I am not asking to blame anyone, but I am asking to be able to make the right choices at the next stage of the pandemic and perhaps also to help a number of people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Omtzigt for his clear story and good questions. Mr. Chairman. "How can we set up political institutions to prevent incompetent or bad rulers from doing too much damage?" I'm not talking about this minister, because I've been watching him. This is a quote by Karl Popper in his book The Open Society. It was one of the central questions he asked. In two thick pills he described how an open and free society is the only place where people can really be fundamentally free and where people can develop. But that open society must be protected. It's never finished and it's not self-evident. If he's talking about enemies, they're not just enemies from the outside. The enemies of democracy are also those who undermine it from within. Popper wrote about the democratic paradox, the paradox that democracy can be put out of play in a democratic way. That is one of the reasons why we must set up the democratic rule of law in such a way that it can take a hit. We do this, among other things, by ensuring that judges and institutions are always independent, that the free press can do its job and that elections take place freely, but also by including human rights in our Constitution. Our democratic rule of law is very valuable, but it is also quite vulnerable. Mr. Chairman. Popper taught me a lesson: that our democratic rule of law is never finished and is never taken for granted. He also taught me that we need to be alert to parties and processes that undermine our democratic rule of law. He also taught me that we should be careful not to degrade the democratic decision-making process ourselves. That's my heart cry today. That is why I welcome the fact that we are once discussing a law which is the basis of many of the measures we have discussed in the last few years and that we are actually talking about fundamental rights. Two years ago, the corona crisis was an acute crisis. There was a shortage of mouth caps, a shortage of hospital beds and also a lack of pandemic experience. As a result, the cabinet drew all kinds of powers. That was also very important in that acute crisis, and it was obvious. The cabinet also had to comply with Article 22 of the Constitution, which is the duty to promote public health. But now we are almost two years ahead and it is time for recovery, and I am talking not only about the crisis, but also about democratic recovery. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it can no longer be explained that this approval law already entered into force on 1 December, while we are only now dealing with it. And that didn't allow the Chamber to extend the Corona Act by December 1st, but that it did so by royal decree. This simply does not fit in with a democratic decision-making process. That is why we are tabling an amendment today to restore the democratic decision-making process. This is a fundamental recovery, in which it is again the Second and First Chambers that have to approve the extension of the law before it enters into force, and not afterwards, as is the case in the debate we are having today, on a law that has already entered into force on 1 December. My question to the Minister is simple. Does he also see that the decision-making process should be different? Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are not yet there with this amendment, but it is a first step towards democratic recovery. I also hope that we can return to normal democratic decision-making, one where the cabinet makes a proposal and then the Chamber discusses it, before Parliament finally makes a final assessment. My question is whether that is what the Minister is looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u6	My appreciation to Mr Westerveld, who, in this new phase of the pandemic, is at least now looking for a way in which the Chamber can be in a position to do so, unlike in the first period. I share that quest, but at the same time I also remember how the minister's predecessor had ended up in a sort of purgatory between First and Second Chambers. He spent days there, between the Second Chamber and the First, because the First Chamber had a certain view on how this extension should be reviewed. And that poor minister riding his bike back and forth, because of course he wanted to do both Chambers of the States-General in full justice. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Westerveld how she sees it. If the Chamber pronounces this, but that's possible... I don't know what kind of welcome this will have in the First Chamber. Has she thought about how we can give that a sensible follow-up in order to eliminate that option of hellfire as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u7	I think that's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u8	Purgatory, excuse me, otherwise it's gonna be very... It's getting more exciting! I'm a Protestant, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u9	From a democratic decision-making process to purgatory, that is an interesting development. But I do recognize what Mrs Bikker says, because we have, of course... That was not me in this Chamber, by the way, but my predecessor Kathalijne Buitenweg. She also tried, when the first version of the Corona Law passed through the Chamber, to allow the Cabinet to make the best possible decisions, but to ensure the democratic control of the First and Second Chambers. That trial was repeated in the First Chamber. The First Chamber also said that if far-reaching decisions are to be taken, we must have a role in this. There were several preliminary and follow-up procedures under that law at the time. Our proposal now is that we make that role of the Chambers even stronger, by giving both the First and the Second Chamber a role before the law enters into force. Both the First and the Second Chamber should agree, before the law is automatically renewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u10	With that you actually go to a system as we know it by an ordinary law, namely that first the Second and then the First Chamber look at a law. That is my follow-up question to Mrs Westerveld. Wouldn't it be appropriate... It was promised that there would be a legal look-through, as early as December. In view of all the developments, we can also imagine that this has had to wait. But there would be a legal insight: what should be in the ordinary Public Health Act and how long is such a temporary law still needed? Because we're writing incredibly interesting state law together, on which people can promote, I think. But I'm still wondering if we should get into this exercise right now. It is a search, because I do share the question of how we are doing this as a Chamber in a good way. Wouldn't it make sense to hear that from the Minister before we enter into a discussion between the two Chambers of the States General?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u11	I understand the question. I remember that six months ago we also had a debate on the extension of the law and that when several colleagues pointed out that we also said that 'we have a temporary law, but in fact it is not at all so temporary'. Now, hopefully, we are in a situation where we will no longer need this temporary law, because we no longer need to introduce all kinds of emergency measures every time. So I understand Mrs Bikker's question. I agree with her that you don't have to remodel a law if maybe in a few weeks that law won't be necessary anymore. I'd like to go through with that with the Minister. The question to him is: what are his expectations for the coming time? I do not have a glass ball, nor do I have a minister, but he may be a little better at assessing the extent to which we still need laws in the near future to introduce certain measures to protect our health. I can see him nodding. I think there will be a very nice answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u12	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to continue with the task of the Chamber. I wanted to say that our job as a chamber is to check the cabinet properly. It is also our job to protect fundamental rights. To be honest, it can and should be better. If we look at the last year and a half, then the Chamber has not always looked closely at what its tasks are. We are therefore allowed to put our hands in our own bosom every now and then. Mr. Chairman. In November, I filed a motion to conduct a large-scale investigation into 3G, 2G and 1G. That was the TU Delft report. But also in November, so before the TU Delft report was there, there were parties who said: do us that 2G law. Whether 2G was effective seemed to matter much less in this Chamber. It was mainly about the speed with which we, as a Chamber, had to put a stamp on it and the speed with which we had to deal with it. That wasn't the first time speed won it with care in the last corona crisis. During the preparation for this extension law I had to remember a few times about May 2021. Then we treated the Corona Test Certificate Act as a Chamber. That law of May preceded hundreds of field labs. Advice was sought from the Council of State. You had all kinds of advisory committees, too. A series of D66 amendments transformed that law from coronatest certificates to coronaaccess cards. So testing became tickets. But those tickets didn't precede a field lab. No opinion was sought from the Council of State and there were no advisory committees. My question is simple: does the Minister agree with me that you should not deal lightly with far-reaching measures that restrict constitutions? I would also like to ask the Minister how he looks back on the original legal treatment of 2G and 3G in the workplace. Does he agree with me that the nine days of preparation that we then received as a Chamber because we had to talk very quickly about that law was really too short? I would also like to ask him: if the long-term plan comes from the cabinet, how do these laws get a place in that plan? Do they get a place in that long-term plan? Is attention paid to the democratic decision-making process? Mr. Chairman. In the debate surrounding the corona tickets, I made a plea to look forward, not only to the summer, but also beyond that. The debate was then in May. I remember very well that at the time the Minister said that we would no longer need any corona measures after the summer. That prophecy didn't turn out to be too prophetic, we know now. Even though this minister does not have a glass ball, I would like to ask him the following question. I would like to ask him when he expects us to move away from the measures. When are the measures no longer proportionate? When have they become unnecessarily obstructive and so we do not need to renew the measures? The question is still very specific: when has this temporary law, which has not been so temporary for more than a year and a half, come to an end? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a number of questions and comments, partly on behalf of my colleague, Mr Kuik of the PvdA. Both GroenLinks and the PvdA have always stated that if you make far-reaching decisions, there must be a legal basis under them. That is why we have always supported the extension of these laws. Corona hasn't left yet. Although the omikron variant is less sickening than previous variants, we still see a lot of pressure on the care, we are dealing with towering numbers of infections and we are still ready to let go of everything. When is the turning point that the usefulness and necessity of this law no longer proportionate to the epidemiological situation? Furthermore, my group and those of the PvdA find it difficult for the corona ticket of nearly 500,000 vaccinated Dutch people to lapse, because they have not yet achieved a booster. This is, of course, entirely true for young people, who in some cases have not yet been able to reach a booster. So I'm curious how the Minister looks at that. I know, however, that it has been laid down in accordance with European rules for travel within Europe, and we cannot change that, of course, but we do lay down the rules for tickets in the Netherlands. So far, two vaccinations, recovery or a test have been enough. Of course it's better if there's a booster, but still it's a lot to do for many people at one stroke, because this really comes as a surprise to deny unboosted people access to locations. Of course, that has everything to do with the fact that there is no fine-meshed test infrastructure yet. This debate may not be about that, but I would like to point out to the Minister that that can be a nice way. Mr. Chairman. Then one last cry of hearts. We talk about it more often, but there are just people who can't be vaccinated and tested. I know that the Minister said in the previous debate that he would make haste with a solution. I just want to emphasise that this really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u14	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Baarle from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u15	Thank you, Madam President. A domestic communication: I am replacing my esteemed colleague, Mr Kuzu, in this debate. Mr. Chairman. A lockdown: closure of the catering industry, closure of schools, maximum group size and closure of childcare facilities. That's all on penalty of fines. That's what makes the law we're discussing today possible. It is a law that allows the government to restrict basic fundamental rights and to restrict freedoms on the basis of corona, virtually per decree. It's about big containments that can have huge consequences. Today, the question is whether we should extend it. The answer from DENK is: no, we absolutely should not do that. DENK does not consider it acceptable to give the government this enormous form of power at this time. DENK has a number of arguments for this. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the necessity. It is simply not necessary to abandon this great power to the government. There's no reason to base your policy on fear or panic anymore. We've been doing that for too long. It has been clear for a long time that the pandemic situation with omikron is completely different from the other variants. The average omikron patient admitted to hospital is about three to four days earlier on his leg and needs significantly less intensive care. A Norwegian study shows that the risk of ending up in hospital in case of infection with omikron is 70% lower. Almost nowhere is there really a code black in healthcare at this time. While omikron has been grabbed around us for two months, has been dominant for four weeks and is two to four times more contagious than the delta variant, according to several experts, the figures are totally uncompareable to the previous waves. It is therefore wrong to apply this law again to the current situation. These far-reaching powers no longer fit in with the current pandemic situation. This is also demonstrated by foreign countries. When the Netherlands was the only country to close on the basis of total panic last December, other countries were still fully open. What happened? We didn't see the doom scenarios in those countries, so no overcrowded ic's and no exhausted hospitals. Now that enormous power is still attached to the government to announce a lockdown by decree, it is therefore no longer necessary as far as DENK is concerned. In the United Kingdom, Finland, Denmark and some Spanish regions, all measures have even been abolished. They've seen enough. More countries will soon follow. The combination of a high vaccination rate and a high number of infections leads to a higher level of immunity. That is, of course, not the aim of this policy, but it is a fact. Take the United Kingdom, which has for some time been banning the measures. After a short peak, the number of infections and the number of hospitalisations fell dramatically there. Experts now expect the UK to emerge as one of the first countries to emerge from the pandemic. That's light at the end of the tunnel. The WHO has even expressed the expectation that the whole of Europe will be in an endemic phase at the end of March as a result of omikron and the higher vaccination rate. That is why there is no longer any need to resort to a power of government to introduce, by decree, massive restrictions on freedom such as school closures, which are more harmful than benefits. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second argument: the lack of proportionality. The measures in which the Temporary Law confers jurisdiction on measures covid-19 are no longer proportionate. Take the last lockdown, which has done more damage than has had effect. Sufferingly, Van Dissel and the government also admitted that. The Minister is now spreading graphs on the worrying situation of our young people. The physical activity has fallen to an absolute low at the time of the lockdowns. According to researchers, the lockdowns in 2020 alone have lost as many as 46,000 healthy years of life. And then it's not even clear how many years the last lockdown has added to it. During the lockdowns and school closures, the mental health of our people has also been seriously affected, and of young people in particular. The number of suicides among young adults has even increased by about 15% in the last year compared to previous years. The school closures are likely to have caused irreversible learning disadvantages. Mr. Chairman. DENK considers that, in this situation, with the pandemic, it is no longer proportionate to leave such measures, which can be introduced by decree, in the toolbox of the government. If it turns out that the rest of Europe was completely open last December, did not suffer from any overload in hospitals and, above all, saw the level of immunity rising, then we can no longer speak of proportionality. Then we speak of disproportion. There are lighter measures, such as good ventilation, a good hygiene plan and the provision of newly developed medicines in case of possible contamination. There are other measures, and that does not make this law proportional. Mr. Chairman. Argument three: the support. Many studies show that there is no support for corona policy and for tough measures. A survey carried out a month and a half ago shows that only 16% of the population have confidence in corona policy. Only 16%! To put that in perspective, 16% of the Parliamentary Assembly is only 24 seats. That would only be D66. With such a low level of support, decisions should simply not be pushed through. As representatives of the people, we are here to make decisions on behalf of the people. If people don't want it anymore, you just don't have to do it anymore. Mr. Chairman. The fourth argument: it is also time to say goodbye to this law in the context of democratic control. Although the Minister can no longer make decisions on the basis of emergency regulations, this law puts the House of Representatives in front of a fact every time. Indeed, the law still ensures that very heavy decisions on restricting freedoms are taken in a way that avoids really good parliamentary control. It's still post-control. The fact that we are now discussing the extension decision of this law, while the extension has already started in December, is, of course, a sign of this. Mr. Chairman. It is also not sufficiently transparent. The law is not sufficiently defined on the basis of which the cabinet has to make a decision. The cabinet can take measures from the loose wrist and does not have to justify itself on the basis of this law. Think of the inexplicable differences in opening hours. Think of the exclusion of catering and the cultural sector during relaxation. Think of the illogical closure of outdoor sports. DENK wants full parliamentary control to be restored. That is one of the reasons why we are opposed to the extension of this law. Mr. Chairman. I come to the fifth argument. How long are we going to extend this law? Are we going to talk about the eighth extension, the twentieth extension, the twenty-fifth extension, without actually having a real long-term vision and solution? Do we still have to give this government and this minister a carte blanche with this law in order to use and extend that temporary law over and over again? DENK has been asking the Minister for a long-term plan since 2020. And we're still waiting for a solid long-term plan with perspective. As far as DENK is concerned, it is a very bad thing that we should give the government these enormous powers and power without real prospects and a long-term plan being offered. Mr. Chairman. I come to the final argument. Another reason DENK is against the extension of the law is that this law makes it possible for the cabinet to maintain the terrible corona access pass. D66 already asked for it in the note following the report. But if we look at what science says about those corona access passes, there's no reason to go through with this anymore. More and more experts have expressed reservations about this exclusion policy. Research by Follow the Money already showed that there was no scientific basis at all to legitimise the introduction of a corona admission certificate. Two weeks ago, a study by TU Delft, commissioned by this minister, showed that a 3G or 2G policy has little effect on the infections. More and more experts have their reservations. It is therefore incomprehensible to DENK that the cabinet still wants this instrument in the toolbox. What good is a toolbox full of blunt hammers and broken screwdrivers? You shouldn't have that in there. If you apply for a scientific research and then your hypothesis turns out to be wrong, then you stop working from that hypothesis. Mr. Chairman. DENK sees, in view of all these investigations, even more than ever before, because since the beginning we have been opposed to this project, there is no reason to continue with 2G, 3G and the corona tickets. It is actually a shame that this minister indicated that he intends to hold on to 2G and continue with it, because he did not like the results of the earlier investigation. 2G and also 3G just have to go in the trash. 2G doesn't work and needs to get out. And 3G definitely doesn't work, so that has to come out. Is the Minister prepared to withdraw these miserable measures? Mr. Chairman. Another consequence of the corona pass is that half a million people will no longer have access to society because of European harmonisation. From one day to the next, they're undesirable. DENK asks the Minister not to allow this and to oppose it at European level. Is he willing to do this? Mr President, in conclusion. The measures in this law are not necessary and proportionate, and the law cannot be explained democratically as far as DENK is concerned. It will be a very difficult process to glue the huge divide in society and to go back to normal. If you continue to place all these great powers on the government to take such drastic measures to join society, that does not contribute. As far as DENK is concerned, we are not extending this law, we are going back to a normal system of parliamentary control and we are depriving the government of the power to close society down by decree. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr... Oh, there's been an interruption by Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u17	I just heard Mr. Van Baarle make some comparisons. Denmark is a very much mentioned country today. That is a bit of an apple comparison with pears, because they had a lot of measures that we have not taken. They're quitting these strict measures now. I heard you make a plea for that, too. That's also because they have a higher vaccination rate and a higher boost rate. There were therefore a number of conditions which allowed them to do so. I asked your colleague last week, too. You have been working on a long-term strategy for two years and I hear you say what you do not want today, but what do you want to do to keep society open?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u18	First of all, let me respond to the first point made by my honourable colleague, Mrs Paulusma. The measures abolished in Denmark and the United Kingdom have been proven ineffective. In the past it was said that one of the differences between the Netherlands and those other countries was the coronapas, but now we know that the coronapas does not work. That argument has therefore lapsed; let us establish that with each other. I hope that D66 will also be convinced that this coronapas does not work, that we should not enter 2G and that 3G should also go into the trash as soon as possible. Then there's your follow-up question. When it comes to the long-term strategy, DENK has always insisted on good preventive measures. That's where this cabinet really drops a few stitches. I would like to mention, for example, the subsidy measure to organise good ventilation in schools. In other countries that is much better arranged. In Belgium, this subsidy scheme is being used much better and the basic infrastructure for ventilation in schools is much better in order. That is at least one example. But I also call it better informing people about what you can do in the home situation to prevent infections. I believe that there is also a huge profit to be made in the long-term vision of communication. Let me give you a third example. In the past, DENK has made smart proposals to make ventilation and air quality measures available as soon as possible in the hospitality sector, so that catering businesses can check whether air quality is in order. These are three examples that should be part of the long-term vision as far as DENK is concerned. I think I'll serve you at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u19	Thank you. I would ask you to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u20	Those were very nice words from Mr Van Baarle. He certainly finds me by his side when it comes to prevention. Returning to Denmark, the vaccination and booster rates are many times higher. That's why Denmark is now 'open'. Our national vaccination programme is actually a preventive programme. If you then make a plea for prevention, do you agree with us that it is precisely this commitment to vaccination and that booster injection that would be a very good preventive measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u21	DENK is in favour of a complete free choice when it comes to vaccination. Our major objection at the moment is that there is an urgent need for all those measures that are being introduced. I mention, for example, 3G, but also 2G, of which parties such as D66 and this minister are very much in favour. Our objection is that there is an urge on people to be vaccinated. We are against that. What we are in favour of is that we inform people fairly, that we give the right information and that we offer people the possibility of actually being vaccinated, provided that that is a free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u23	Mr. Chairman. At the time, I voted against the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and against any extension, because the measures were not proportionate, ineffective and because the temporality of the law was not guaranteed. In fact, the law is full of measures that are demonstrably harmful to public health. BVNL will therefore vote against this fourth extension. By the way, Corona shouldn't be on the A list either, but my motion to remove corona from that A list has just been rejected. Mr. Chairman. All the aforementioned arguments for this law have now been shriveled. This temporary law was intended to contain the spread of the virus by means of measures, in a proportionate and effective manner. But no measure has so far had any demonstrable effect on the spread of the virus. With the arrival of omikron and the towering number of infections, containment of the spread has become a complete illusion. Omikron is everywhere now, and luckily, because it is our salvation. No measure will prevent the spread of this variant. Vaccines do not do that either, because vaccinees are as contagious as unvaccinated. That is not so bad at all because healthy people hardly get sick of it. The concern about our undersized ic-capacity as a ground for this law has also disappeared. Even the explanatory memorandum of this law has become obsolete on this point. It still says that the number of ic-recordings continues to increase, while the ic-recordings have been falling steeply since 2 December and there are barely 200 people on the ic-recording. There is also decoupling: despite the high number of infections, the ic's are emptying. Sending on the number of infections was already a wrong strategy, but with omikron it is completely pointless. Moreover, my suspicion was confirmed that these figures are artificially high. A third would be even wrong: not by but with corona. There appears to be a perception problem. Our perception of a terribly dangerous virus is the result of false registrations, excessive testing with dubious PCR tests and the continuous fear propaganda that is being poured out on us. Mr. Chairman. The second problem is the so-called temporaryity of this law. We have already arrived at the fourth extension and if I read all the explanations on the law section, we are just beginning. The Minister writes that he does not rule out the need for further extensions. I quote: "The Cabinet currently prefers to extend the debt relief if necessary, if it continues to extend the provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 until the Public Health Act has been revised. The cabinet is aware that this means that it is possible that there will be further extensions of the Twm. However, in the opinion of the Cabinet, the temporary nature of the measures is respected." This is an unimaginable misdemeanor. The cabinet is therefore unjustly hiding behind Mr Hijink's motion, which called for an end to the rule of temporary laws and instead incorporated the Wpg into a framework for combating pandemics. Now that motion is being used to extend the temporary law permanently. In the note following the report, Hugo de Jonge writes: 'Mr Hijink then indicated that a proposal for an adaptation of the Wpg would have to be made after an extensive evaluation, and I was then able to see that motion in such a way that the evaluation would be carried out first and that, if that evaluation is appropriate, the Wpg would have to be adapted accordingly'. The previous Minister of VWS is therefore actually saying that the Temporary Law will continue to take measures until the end of July: first evaluate, then start a change of the Wpg law and then repeal the temporary law. But that cannot be the intention of a temporary law, with such far-reaching measures. That temporary law was introduced in order to take temporary emergency measures and not to wait for an evaluation, and certainly not to start a whole new legislative process and close it for future pandemics. That could take years. Does the current minister agree with BVNL that the planning of his predecessor for the repeal of the temporary law is contrary to the temporality of that law? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to address another fundamental objection to this extension. The extension will extend the limitation of our fundamental rights. Now that the foundations for the temporary law are being crushed, we hear a new argument in the debates to continue with policy in particular. The VVD reported in a written round on the extension of this law "... that, unfortunately, life with the coronavirus may be necessary in the future to have measures in the toolbox in order to be able, as soon as there is a national or regional outbreak, to use them quickly to break down outbreaks immediately." A toolbox in which the VWS Minister can shop to restrict fundamental rights to his heart's content: this is totally unacceptable. Corona policy and the corona laws are tools that violate our fundamental rights. The temporary law and the temporary arrangements that are attached to it make that possible, and the almighty State continues to restrict our fundamental rights. I will mention a number of them. Article 7: the right to freedom of expression. Criticism of the corona policy is dismissed as fake news and you are removed by social media. A care worker and a wedding officer were even fired. Article 9: the freedom to meet with a group of people. Testimonies against the corona policy were banned or literally broken up. Article 10: the right to privacy. The mandatory 1.5 meter reduces this, not to mention checking the medical status through the QR code. Article 11: The inviolability of the body. That article has been violated by the mouth cap obligation and the aggressive compulsion and urge to vaccinate everyone. Article 14: the right to property. That article has been damaged by the entrepreneurs who saw their businesses go bankrupt as a result of the corona policy. Article 15: the right to freedom of movement. That's contained by the night lockdown and the quarantine obligation. Article 19: Right to work. That's contained for a lot of people. I would like to mention, for example, the closing of the cultural sector. What is the alternative to this profession? I thought we were gonna do it together. Article 20: the right to income. This has been affected by the months of closing shops, restaurants and fairs and banning events. This happened during Christmas, the time when many entrepreneurs had to make their annual turnover. State aid compensates for the damage only marginally. Article 22 (1): the right to health. This is a very special one in this list, because this article is used to push through the corona policy but the health gains do not outweigh the demonstrable health damage caused by the corona policy. The mental health of young people, the closure of gyms, the weight gain, the scaling down of regular care: it destroys our health, thus also affecting the fundamental right to health. And the government has done this consciously, given the report on the 620,000 years of life destroyed compared to 100,000 years of life gained. Article 22 (3): the right to social and cultural development and leisure activities. That article is contained by closing theaters, cinemas and gyms. Finally, Article 23, the right to education. This fundamental right is also contained in a very far-reaching way, by online lessons, by sending classes home in positive tests and by the quarantine obligation of pupils and teachers. The learning disadvantage is immense and for many vulnerable students it is impossible to catch up. Mr. Chairman. Enough is enough. It's done. There is an absurd accumulation of bans and prohibitions that run counter to our fundamental rights. It's killing people. Young people commit suicide, catering entrepreneurs no longer see a way out and the cultural sector is dying. It is in no way persuasive that, because of a few 200 corona patients on the ic's for almost 18 million Dutch people, so many fundamental rights are being violated for so long. To this minister, therefore, the question whether he can indicate the serious reasons for holding on to that accumulation of fundamental rights violations for nearly 18 million Dutch people. And then I'd like to hear valid arguments about proportionality, effectiveness and temporality. Mr Omtzigt tabled a motion on 3 November, which I co-tabled, to review corona measures on fundamental rights. The motion was dissuaded by the cabinet and rejected by the illustrious company of the four coalition parties. Mr Van der Staaij previously introduced a law that would allow EU treaties to be adopted only by two-thirds majority. In line with this, BVNL wants laws restricting fundamental rights, i.e. a law like the Twm, to require a two-thirds majority. BVNL also wants the restriction of our fundamental rights not to be pulled out of the toolbox by the minister of VWS with a thin ministerial arrangement. As far as we are concerned, the violation of our fundamental rights is now coming to an end as soon as possible. The temporary law also provides for the possibility to withdraw the law in the interim. Maybe we should. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the corona pass. BVNL opposes the use of the corona access card. Whether it's 1G, 2G or 3G, it's not working and we need to stop. It's a discriminatory, miserable drug. We are therefore not in favour of negotiating the time limits for discriminatory access tickets, but if you have to say something about them, then we are doing so now and we would like the deadlines to be extended. At the time, following a motion by BVNL, the time limit for the recovery certificate was extended from six to twelve months. As far as we are concerned, this period goes to infinity. If you've been through Corona, you're done. But as far as we're concerned, this doesn't need to be regulated by a corona pass. Self-responsibility and common sense should be enough. Mr. Chairman. For the rest, BVNL will also submit the amendments tabled by Van Meijeren and Van der Plas. Let's stop this madness as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u24	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u25	For the sake of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u26	I wonder if I have listened correctly to what Mr Van Haga said: all laws restricting fundamental rights should be passed by two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u27	You can see that fundamental rights are now being restricted by ministerial regulations and extensions that have actually lost their basis. This is now happening on the basis of a simple majority. It would be a good idea to consider that this type of far-reaching intervention should indeed be approved by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u28	I have been very pleased earlier with a bill submitted by Mr Van der Staaij about a two-thirds majority that would be necessary if you were to give away powers as a country, for example to Europe. I can imagine that very well, but this proposal by Mr Van Haga, for example, affects all the laws we have in criminal law. We also lock people up. That is a very far-reaching restriction on their fundamental rights. We do that for a reason. Does Mr Van Haga mean that we should say of all these laws, including those in criminal law, by two-thirds majority? Wouldn't it be wise to say that we have the States-General before that, so two chambers that test? At that time, there has also been a step-by-step assessment by many parties together, even this cabinet does not have a majority in the First Chamber or that consideration of fundamental rights has been made right. I am also going to talk in my own contribution about whether that balance has been made right, because no, I am not uncritical about that either. However, I think it is important that we establish together that fundamental rights can be restricted in the States-General if it has passed through two chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u29	It's a well-known fact. It's also a difficult dilemma. However, we are also in the exceptional situation, at least I have never experienced this before in my life, namely that fundamental rights are restricted by a simple qualified majority. I just read them all. We've been chased out of our normal lives with a storm that is unprecedented. I have argued since March 2020 that, if you look at the statistics, the basis for this did not exist. If you see what measures have come to us, continuously, on the basis of weird models, weird tests and weird anxiety psychosis that apparently exist, it would be good to at least need a larger majority before we impose a curfew or a lockdown on people and more or less oblige them to be vaccinated. I think that goes a long way. I think we should think better about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u30	You have sometimes heard me express criticism, but always in the knowledge that we live here in a democracy and that a majority of people make decisions, and I hope that they also take account of the views of a minority. I will always stand for that and I will always make that assessment myself. I hear Mr Van Haga doing two things in all his criticism of things. On the one hand, he says: I wonder if democracy works well. He's pushing it. His solution is then one of which I say: every law in criminal law has the same dilemma. I have never heard Mr Van Haga complain or say that this would be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u31	No, of course you have a point. But in some cases democracy is not really resilient. You can do very big things with a very small majority. That's what's happened in the last two years. The massacre caused by a small majority, without any respect for the minority who opposed it, is enormous. So I do not think it would be bad at all to demand a somewhat larger majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u32	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u33	You have also heard me critically on a number of occasions. Minister De Jonge didn't always look very shiny at that at the time. That's not the point at all. But I'm really protesting against remarks like "bloodbath." Yeah, there's been a search here in the Chamber: how do we get through this pandemic? Yes, there is a difference of opinion, including Mr Van Haga. We've exchanged enough about that. Sometimes we agreed. Sometimes we didn't agree. But a bloodbath? Sorry. There are many times in history when there has been a massacre. Then you can say that, but here a majority, based on the insights, has thought that this is the best way to get through the crisis. That's really something other than a bloodbath. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u34	If you ask the average catering entrepreneur, I think he does use those kind of words. Even if you ask the average oncologist or cardiologist, I think the same words are used. There has been a scaling-down of planned care, so many cancer patients have not been diagnosed and have not been treated. The same applies to people with cardiovascular disease. That is all to write on the conto of that simple majority, who probably made these decisions in the best of honour and conscience. But this was done on the basis of statistics that were at least wrong, and on the basis of models that now appear to be completely incorrect. It's going a long way. I think that, at least in this kind of crisis situation, better democratic guarantees would be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u35	Because it is about statistics and models: figures from the CBS show that in 2020 and 2021, even with the restrictive measures, there was an excess mortality rate of some 30,000 people. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u36	That excess mortality is a tricky point. Several parties, including BVNL, have already asked for this on several occasions. Mr Omtzigt has recently tabled a motion on this subject. That needs to be looked at very carefully. In the previous debate, we talked about registration. I believe that Mrs Westerveld herself made a comment on this. I fell off my chair when I realized that two years after the debate I had with Hugo de Jonge on this matter, it turned out that it was just completely random. So the registration is wrong. The models are wrong. And, indeed, there is a certain excess mortality. I think we're all in agreement that that needs to be figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u37	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again we are talking about the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Even though that was difficult for us, in recent months the Christian Union Group supported the temporary law with restrictive measures, even if those measures were restrictions on freedom and even if they infringed fundamental rights. But we've always tested it against proportionality. Why have we provided support so far? Well, because public health and the protection of vulnerable people weigh so heavily that the restrictions were justified. In doing so, we have always emphasised two things: temporaryity, i.e. during the pandemic, and proportionality. Because if the government limits freedoms, it must be proportionate to the goal and it must always be considered whether this can be achieved by less far-reaching means. This applies to the whole of Twm and to the individual measures. This has also been made explicit by the Chamber at various times, by emphasising the temporality and by the Bikker test on the proportionality of the individual measures. That is and remains essential for my group to consider all these measures around this law. At the moment we are in a grey area, because times have changed since the Council of State gave its opinion on this bill. That was November. I therefore ask the Minister, first of all, how he looks at the accuracy of this opinion, which is also used by the Chamber in assessing the current decision-making process. I also ask the Minister how he sees himself in the next few weeks. We are in a grey area, where other countries, such as Denmark, are already continuing to abolish all measures. At the same time, however, I do not want to be careless and lift all measures now. That is what my group really supports, that we are looking at what is feasible at the moment, even when we are talking about this vulnerability, that you are not taking hastily steps that you would grieve for afterwards, or as the Council of State put the yo-yo policy on it. At the same time, there will be a moment when we say: yes, now the temporality of this law is really worked out. The freedom that we have limited of citizens, of whom we have also asked to turn in that little bit, precisely in order to protect the vulnerable, so that care lasts, we must also give back, in order not to harm the relationship of trust that we also have as a government, even if we introduce these far-reaching measures. I would therefore like to ask the Minister at what point he wants to go back to the current law, the Public Health Act. We were promised a legal review in December. I don't see how that worked. I am very curious to see how the Minister intends to follow up on this, because we have limited fundamental rights, but always only by emphasising that temporaryity, with the promise that we will put an end to it as soon as possible. What is the Minister's view of this in the near future? Even when we are talking about a new extension, which I hope will not be necessary, but I would like to have that discussion on time. If the epidemiological situation is actually more favourable in terms of disease burden and hospitalisations than it was before, and I think that is true if we compare it with November, then that test is getting heavier, which is why I am putting this in the direction of the government with emphasis. With regard to shortening the national corona ticket, Mr President, one more question. Could the Minister explain again how he sees this distinction between vaccination, recovery and booster vaccination and why it should have implications in the number of days? It is short notice for those concerned who have a shorter period of validity. We also read reports about half a million Dutch people who have gotten into a different situation quite quickly. Does the Minister see opportunities to give this group a little more time or does he have other solutions in mind? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the question that Mrs Westerveld asked about people with medical vulnerability and impossibility in this area, I also get mail from someone who has received a third shot because of medical vulnerability, which does not count as a booster, and who is now in trouble. Is the Minister familiar with that? Would he at least like to come back to that, or in some other way, to this group, which just faithfully takes the shot, when necessary, so that it doesn't bother him? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u39	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me, this debate is actually divided into two parts. One of these is the issue that is now on the table: to extend the temporary law that makes it possible to intervene during this pandemic. I can be very brief and concise about that question. Not only would it be unfair not to be able to intervene at the time of a pandemic, but it would be contrary to the oath we have all taken here as representatives of the people. The Constitution is clear about the public health role we have as a public authority. I quote Article 22 (1): 'The public authorities are taking measures to promote public health'. We must do justice to that. But that brings me to the second part of my speech. I have seen little of this duty in the last two years. That doesn't affect the decision. The possibility of action cannot simply be lifted, but we must talk about how we deal with that responsibility. I have been mentioning the problems surrounding the chosen strategy for some time now, as well as the dangerous and serious risks that are being taken over and over again. The extension of this law therefore feels a bit like a necessary power that unfortunately ends up in the wrong hands. Because with the chosen strategy, which responds to group immunity, we have immersed ourselves in an eternal cycle. As soon as there is a millimetre space in the eyes of the cabinet, often against OMT's advice, we open the place with a lot of euphoria. The contagions then rise and the cabinet intervenes again if the ic-capacity is compromised. That is already the sacred grail from day one: the ic capacity rather than the actual prevention of infections, which, of course, also increase the chance of ic uptake. Then we start again from the beginning, waiting for the next unrealistic millimetre of space, ready for the next launch in the destructive group immunity marathon, a marathon that is covered over the backs of exhausted care personnel. In addition to the incredible damage that this causes in the field of public health, I am going to go a little further in the field of public health, which is another huge problem: credibility. The Council of State is right to point this out. People feel euphoria over and over again because they think they can again, for example the owner of a small catering shop or the artist whose collection can be visited again. Over and over again, this euphoria becomes flattened after a few weeks. This leads to disappointment, desperation, suspicion and ever less capacity for effective follow-up to the measures. I'm just wondering: how can this be the outcome every time? This is accompanied by a blatantly embarrassing communication from the government over the past two years, up to now. This has the support for measures that can effectively protect public health as snow for the sun disappears. It's turned people, groups of friends, families into opposites. People don't even want to talk about corona anymore. It leads to incredible polarization. It's inimitable, confusing, exhausting and, above all, pissed off. Mr. Chairman. In that case, we will not escape a broader ideological debate. All these considered risks of human life, mind you, are all a political choice. From day one, we could have decided collectively, together, to do everything in solidarity to protect people from what was then a completely new virus. But that choice was simply never made. We have taken a different path, knowingly. During the very first, for me legendary speech, I will never forget the one that the Prime Minister kept from the Tower, the word "group immunity" fell several times in a prominent way. Group immunity, said the outgoing Prime Minister at that time. There were absolutely no obvious signs of injury: infections had to be spread based on the capacity in hospitals. As a result, we would create group immunity over time, while there was not even any scientific evidence that this was possible at all and we did not have any insight into the long-term effects of the virus. Although it is now denied that we have adopted such a strategy, in the hope that our memory will be played as easily as that of the Prime Minister, the facts speak for themselves. We have very recently reopened society, hoping that a combination of boosters and infections will lead us to an endemic phase. It is the next game of roulette with human lives, which is always described as "exciting" during press conferences. And that while the number of infections was already rising. Try to explain this: on the one hand, rightly, continue to tell us how dangerous and unpredictable the virus is and how uncertain the long-term consequences are, and on the other hand, are becoming more and more flexible and more infections. By doing so you consciously or unconsciously communicate that such an increase in infections in itself is not a problem. In this way, the basis for action continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u41	An interruption by Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u42	I can very well follow the beginning of Mrs Simons' speech. The SP was at the very beginning of the outbreak, in March 2020, one of the first parties to object to the strategy of group immunity. In the meantime, of course, things have changed. We have vaccinations and boosters. People who get infected get much less sick from the virus. There are also many fewer hospital and ic recordings. Mrs Simons says that the cabinet should still steer as few infections as possible. What would that mean, then, in concrete terms, for the measures that are now being taken and have been taken in recent times? And how are we going to keep doing that in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u43	I do not think that Mr Hijink has heard correctly that I am now saying in my speech that we still have to hammer zero covid or contain it completely today. We have indeed reached a stage that looks very different from the first, but we also do not know what the future will bring. We are now pleased with the situation with regard to this variant. It has not been said that we are not going to welcome new variants. We still don't know how corona will develop. My fear is mainly in the timing of euphoria. If we now think that we can say with certainty that omikron is the last variant that we are dealing with and that it will develop into an endemic variant, then, I think, we are taking too big an advance on what the future is going to bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u44	That warning is, I think, justified. I do not know whether there are many parties who actually think that this will be the very last variant. Anyway, it doesn't matter. I do hear a great contrast between Mrs Simons' answer and the speech she made. In my view, that was the real aim of continuing to focus on reducing the number of infections. That would have been the best strategy at the beginning of the epidemic, which indeed has not been followed for too long, but I still miss it... because you are actually saying that you think that what is happening now, with the measures and with more than 100,000 infections today, is acceptable at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u45	No, I don't think that's acceptable. I believe that you should at all times try to achieve at least as little contamination as possible, because with as few infections as possible, you will end up risking as little hospitalizations as possible and therefore as little as possible ic-recordings. I do think it is time, at the stage in which we ended up, for us to start looking for a long-term strategy, which is less dependent on day-to-day prices, i.e. on ic-recordings, and taking into account different scenarios. It is time for us, as a Chamber, to do so, too, and I believe that one of the speakers before me, as I have said, is part of the shaping of this strategy. Then we can discuss different scenarios with each other, with which, at that moment, in the reality that prevails at that moment, today is the omikron and that can be something else in a few months' time better anticipate or respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u46	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u47	Yeah, I have one last question, then maybe very specific. I don't mean that annoying, but it's just really not quite clear to me which way BET1 would like to go. Would Mrs Simons, if she were currently in box K, take additional measures to reduce the number of infections, so that we go from the 100,000 to, I don't know, 50,000, 10,000 or 2,000? Or does she say: no, I would wait in this situation and see what happens to the tax in the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u48	Firstly, if I had been in trade-k, I would have chosen a different strategy from day one, which would have given us a different starting point today. But that's woulda, shoulda, coulda. Mr Hijink also asked me about specific measures. I understand that Mr Hijink does not think that is quite clear about strategy. And a strategy is broader than a single measure here or a single measure there. It is indeed about the weighting between different measures, but it is mainly about the question of where you are leaving from. If you leave with a view to ic-capacity, you will come to a different strategy than when you leave with a view to as few infections as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u49	You will continue your speech. Oh, Mr. Hijink, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u50	For correction. I did not ask for specific measures such as closing down the catering industry, sport or I do not know what. But would Mrs Simons at the moment take measures to reduce the number of infections by far?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u51	Oh, yeah. But then you come back to the nature of the measures. A measure may be a lockdown throughout the country. A measure can also be more investment in source and contact research that we have never actually done in the Netherlands, so we have not been able to contain local fireplaces. There is therefore no single specific response to a specific measure. As far as BET1 is concerned, it is really a strategy issue. I will continue my speech, including your request, Mr President. As I said just now, it amounts to a broader ideological debate. We have never really had that debate with each other in this Chamber. As can also be seen from a number of extensions of this temporary law, we have always joined as a Chamber to the policy of this cabinet. It is then a question of who ultimately pays the bill for the choices made by both the Chamber and the Cabinet. Those are the people at risk. Whether or not they become infected is a matter of life or death for them. For two years they have been forced into isolation because they have not been able to count on a government that has also taken their interests seriously. There is another answer to the question of who pays the bill. Because while the whole country has been exposed to the virus for weeks by deliberate policy, it remains awfully quiet around lung covid. Fortunately, there was a round table last Monday, in which patients also spoke. That's very nice. In a position paper Long Covid Nederland describes the seriousness of the situation: that more and more children experience complaints, sometimes prolonged, and what the consequences are of the consciously created fireplaces at school. We talked about it many times during the last Corona debate: care workers from the first wave have been at home for two years. Symptoms range from organ failure to cardiac arrhythmias. Anyone can have that bad luck: young, old, at risk group or perfectly healthy, at least according to the standards of our society. Mr. Chairman. That makes the risks deliberately taken by this law so poignant. In the hands of people with the right will, we can use this law to save lives. According to BE1, we should do the same. So here's what I'm saying again. Yes, I will agree to the extension, but I call on the Cabinet, like the Council of State, to finally deal with this responsibly. Start with a solidarity approach aimed at protecting public health. That is what I would like to see in the vision, I also say in the direction of Mr Hijink: the bigger story and a new strategy. That is not only our moral and legal duty, but also certainly that of the cabinet. I'll hold the cabinet to that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u52	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u53	Thank you, Mr President. More and more Dutch people ask themselves the question: how many times do I have to be vaccinated before I get my freedom back? The confrontational answer to that question is: you can get injected until you weigh one of us, but you will not get your freedom back with it. We've been promised so many times. Week in, week out, we were told that a vaccine would give us our freedom back. In fact, a vaccine was the only thing that could help us out of this crisis. It has been over a year since the first injection was given. Soon millions of Dutchmen made a prick appointment. They didn't do that because they themselves ran any significant health risk, but because they believed that the members of the cabinet were telling the truth. For example, our then Minister of Health tweeted: "Prick by Prick" we get our freedoms back. We would need a 70% vaccination rate and then we would finally be rid of all those horrible measures. So you'd be very selfish if you didn't get vaccinated soon. But the members of the cabinet weren't telling the truth; they were lying. More than 86% have been fully vaccinated and even 97% have antibodies. Still, we keep sucking from lockdown to lockdown. Step by step, with two steps forward, one step backwards and another two steps forward, the Great Reset is realized. On 1 July last year, the then Health Minister told me that the suspicion of vaccination as a way out of the crisis would be a danger to public health. He said this literally, while the view that a vaccine would never get us out of the crisis was not only my view, but also that of many professors, scientists and other experts, people who are considerably higher qualified than the Minister of Health and who are also specialised in relevant fields, such as virology or immunology. Surely it is despicable to call opinions that are shared by so many experts a danger to public health? An apology would therefore be appropriate. I would have liked to have been wrong; how I would have liked to have admitted my wrong in a free country today. But unfortunately, unfortunately, I am right and I am here today in an unfree country to hold a debate on yet another extension of the freedom-limiting corona measures. Not me or the many experts who feed me with their information, but the Minister of Health was the one who was spreading disinformation all along. We're being lied to and cheated on on the assembly line. For example, the vaccination certificate was claimed: voluntary is voluntary, so voluntary is not secretly mandatory. According to Hugo de Jonge on April 22, 2020 at EenVandaag. It was also claimed that it was a misunderstanding that there would be benefits for people who were vaccinated. Again Hugo de Jonge, on November 11, 2020, in Het Parool. It was said that people should never feel forced to prove that they were vaccinated. Again Hugo de Jonge, on March 21st last year, against the NOS. It was claimed that vaccination would be the key to our freedom. Hugo de Jonge, on September 13th last year, on Twitter. It was claimed that the QR code would cause us to be rid of the one-and-a-half meter rule; that was why we got that QR code. Hugo de Jonge, at the press conference of 14 September 2021. It was claimed that taking or not taking the booster vaccination would not affect the validity of the corona admission certificate. Hugo de Jonge, on November 22nd last year, on Twitter. We at FVD, who warned that every three, six or nine months later we would be in the turn for a new shot to keep that green tick, were of course not contradicted in content, but simply thrown away as conspiracy thinkers. Mr. Chairman. I could go on for a long time, but the point is clear: lie after lie after lie. Each week ten new lies are added to keep that one giant lie alive, the giant lie that the corona measures would be intended at all for the protection of public health. The new Minister of Health has also shown that he did not hesitate to push freedom-limiting measures through ruse and deception, for example last week, when he was manipulating the results of TU Delft and was lying about the effectiveness of the corona ticket. It raises the question why all that lying would be necessary. If we were actually dealing with such a life-threatening virus and the freedom-limiting measures would be effective to protect us from it, would it not be necessary to lie about it all the time? Mr. Chairman. Asking the question is answering him. We are not dealing with a health crisis and the measures need to change the agenda. Today we are talking about the fourth extension of the so-called Temporary Law measures covid-19, the emergency law, in fact an authorisation law under which ministerial regulations, i.e. without legal treatment, can take far-reaching measures to restrict fundamental rights. This is a method which runs counter to the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy, but in view of the temporality and special circumstances, the Council of State and other proponents believe it would be legally permissible. The law would only apply for three months and then automatically lapse. This Chamber did not smell any trouble when it became clear that the government had created an opportunity to extend that emergency law for three months over and over again. In fact, anyone who warned that the government was given a lot of power with this and that it was only the question of whether the emergency law would really be that temporary was called a conspiracy thinker or a wappie. The damage that has been done to our society in the meantime cannot be expressed in words. Older people who died in solitude. Families ripped apart. Entrepreneurs who have watched their life's work go up in smoke. The suffering that has been caused, the grief that has been done to people; it cannot be described with a pen. And all of this supposedly for a virus that is not much more dangerous than a heavy flu and, as it mutates, only becomes less and less dangerous. "But it kills people, you know," is often said. That's right: on average about eight a day; yesterday five, the day before yesterday two. By comparison, an average of 13 people die every day because they stumble. A multitude of them end up in the hospital every day after a trip. Only those figures are not published daily on a tripe-ashboard and widely measured in all media. Beaches are still not forbidden and not on every corner of the street hangs a large sign saying "stay at home, together against tripping." We don't get urgent advice not to leave stuff lying around to protect ourselves and others from tripping. The average age of people dying from corona is almost 80 years for men and 84 years for women. This is higher than the average life expectancy in the Netherlands. So no matter how hard it may sound and how sad every death is, these are people who could have died without corona at any time from any corona, rhino or influenza virus, as thousands of old and vulnerable people have died in every flu wave of years and days. "But many people get seriously ill and care is almost impossible" is often the following argument. Luckily, how many people get sick isn't so bad. Of the average 68,000 people tested positive per day, an average of 11 end up on the ic per day. That is 0.016%, if you would assume that those positive tests are actually all infections, which of course is not the case. The fact remains that most people don't even know if they have corona if they don't get tested, because they simply don't have any complaints or at most a snot nose. There are currently around 200 people on the ic with corona. Mét corona: it's just the question if they're lying there because of corona. These are also almost all people with underlying ailments or severe overweight. The mean BMI of corona patients on the ic is around 30, i.e. the average corona patient on the ic suffers from obesity. So if you wanted to ease the pressure on the ic, you'd encourage people to eat healthy and exercise enough, not stay home and order fast food, while gyms are completely or partially closed for half of the year. Or you would logically scale up the capacity of care, but that too does not happen! In March 2020, it was said that we cannot just open a can of ic nurses. But now we are 22 months further, while the training to ic nurse lasts 18 months. This raises the question of how many additional ic nurses have been trained. Answer: zero. Not one! In fact, the number of ICU nurses has decreased. No efforts have been made to increase the number of entrants, no recruitment campaigns, no salary increases, nothing at all. The care capacity could have been increased, but apparently this was not wanted. Why wouldn't people want that? I fear because there would be no more arguments for further rolling out that totalitarian control state. The ambition to enforce that control state is demonstrated, above all, by the latest extensions of the emergency law. The first version of the emergency law already contained the most far-reaching restrictions of freedom that our country has known since the Second World War, but even these were not enough to restrict freedom on several occasions. There had to and would be a digital corona passport, a corona access card, which then became mandatory in more and more places. If it is up to the cabinet, it will become mandatory in such essential places as the workplace and in education. To the extent of disaster, it is also increased to 2G. Although the cabinet has announced that it will put this plan off for a while, it refuses to withdraw the proposal. Imagine if I had told you three years ago that today we should all have a digital QR code that is linked to our personal identity, and that we would have to scan all day long to get in somewhere. You would have laughed at me. If I had told you that it would be necessary to reduce the pressure on the ic's, you would have referred me to a specialist. Yet today, this is the sad reality: millions of Dutch people who do not meet the government's access requirements, which may change at any time! It is a matter of stigmatisation, discrimination and exclusion from social life. You'll be obedient or you'll be out of it. We're being enslaved by the government. Fortunately, more and more people see that the corona access card does not make any significant contribution to public health. The pressure on the cabinet to abolish this horrible drug as soon as possible is increasing. That is why I have tabled four amendments today. The first amendment aims to abolish the corona access card everywhere and for everyone in the whole. It's possible. If it happens, you will see that it has no significant effect on the epidemiological situation, but it makes our society much more pleasant. I know that there are parties who have been misled by all the confusion that has been sown and doubt whether it is wise to abolish that whole corona admission ticket at one stroke. I also welcome those parties with three less far-reaching amendments. They will only be put to the vote if my first amendment is not adopted. This is an amendment to at least abolish the corona ticket for children. We all know the poignant stories of children who can't go to the cinema with boyfriends or girlfriends and come under enormous social pressure to be vaccinated. For adults, social exclusion is often a disaster, but children should not be burdened with it at all. It is completely unacceptable for children to go for a vaccine because otherwise they will be excluded, not because it has medical advantages. I hope, however, that there will be broad support for this amendment. The same applies to my amendment to abolish the corona ticket at least for all places in the outdoors. We all know that the risk of contamination in the outdoors is virtually nil. Again, as far as FVD is concerned, the corona ticket is always and everywhere abolished for everyone, but as long as that does not happen, we can at least ensure that people can still grab a terrace. Finally, I tabled an amendment to abolish the corona ticket in gyms. Sporting ensures a better physical and mental condition and is of great importance for a healthy lifestyle. It is therefore precisely in the interest of public health to keep sports as accessible as possible to everyone. The previous Minister of Health sometimes seemed to enjoy bullying and harassing unvaccinated people by first saying that they can't go to the bathroom when they sit on a terrace, and then even taking that terrace completely away from them. It tends to sadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u54	There is an interruption by Mr Van Wijngaarden, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u55	I'm just gonna come back to the point of those kids. I think we agreed that we should try to limit ourselves a little bit to the law that is before us here. I understand that there are some explanations, but nowhere is the point that is being made here, namely that children should be subjected to vaccination and can only enter with evidence. So I think it is not really a choice for the people who are following this debate and parents with children to do some kind of moody and scary thing here by suggesting things that are not being proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u56	Mr Van Wijngaarden is obviously not even aware that I am not talking about measures being proposed, but about applicable law. Today, kids without QR code can't go to the movies or McDonald's. Today we are debating the extension of the corona measures. The emergency law states that these measures can be extended and abolished in part. That is why I have put forward concrete proposals to abolish certain measures. This fits perfectly within the bill we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u57	Well, well, apparently we've read another bill. We can talk louder and louder, but that doesn't make it true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u58	The bill I am discussing here today is the fourth adoption of the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. Article 58ra of the Public Health Act, which is part of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, provides that the corona admission certificate applies to children from the age of 13. I suggest that this should no longer apply to children. This fits perfectly into the bill, so that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u59	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u60	Mr. Chairman. The new minister can now show himself on his human side by giving his opinion to the Chamber. If these reasonable amendments are not recommended, which I regret to take into account, then that proves all the more that the Minister does not put the importance of public health first at all. A QR code has nothing to do with public health. It serves only the interests of the globalist elite, who pursues a Great Reset. I am referring to a new social and political order, in which the decision-making powers of national states disappear and political and economic decisions are taken by a world government, a New World Order. This is in the interests of the major key players, corporate states, NGOs and international organisations, but contrary to the interests of ordinary citizens. Step by step, the globalists are drawing more and more power and control towards them. But more and more people see it. More and more people don't take it anymore and revolt. That gives a lot of courage, not only in the Netherlands but in many countries. We are seeing more and more countries where the pressure has already increased so much that all measures have been abolished. Think of Denmark, England, Ireland and Spain. People can live normal again, without a mouth cap, without a 1.5 meter, without a QR code and without maximum group sizes. Turns out it's safe. The disaster scenarios that would occur if you cancel everything at once, turn out to be nothing. In Canada, too, a fantastic freedom movement has now emerged that seems to be unstoppable. Many countries will follow, especially the Netherlands. Here in the Netherlands too, things are tilting. The extension of the measures we are discussing today will still be adopted, but the mass that is no longer participating is growing every day. This is even apparent from information from the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is included in the final execution test on the corona policy. Resistance to the policy is increasing and is almost irrepressible. It says literally that the police see a more structural and organised avoidance of the measures and that, as massively announced actions of civil disobedience take place, there is no repressive action against them. This shows once again how effective civil disobedience and other forms of peaceful protest can be. That's why I call on everyone to hold on, keep going, never give up. We're winning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u61	I hear quite a few inconsistencies in Mr Van Meijeren's story. I would like to ask him what he is now saying about the fact that a number of measures are being abolished because the epidemiological situation gives rise to this. That shows that democratic control works, doesn't it? If we say together, for example, that we do not want a 2G law or that we want changes to this temporary law, then democratic control and the House of Representatives are doing their job, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u62	I believe that the measures, as I have also mentioned in my speech, are being tightened up step by step. Then it goes two steps forward and two steps backwards. It is now clear that it is not or hardly related to the epidemiological situation. In all these measures, whether it be the mouth cap obligation, the introduction of the corona ticket or even the 1.5 metres, there is no causal link at all with the decrease or increase in the figures. It is more likely that the measures will harm public health than they should be. What is happening here in Parliament is, I am sure, for the most part a stage. Every now and then a hand is supposed to be put out and we are made happy with a dead sparrow, for example, when the Minister promises after a very long debate that the corona evidence will not apply on the terrace. And two weeks later we hear: oh yes, it will still apply on the terrace. I am glad that you still have confidence in this Parliament, but I have seen that drop to a low point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u63	That's not my point. I have also expressed some criticism in my speech of our own role in the Chamber, but it remains that measures will not be introduced if we decide by majority that a number of things cannot go on or if we, by a majority, recite a number of measures to the cabinet. Instead, you hang up a big story about some sort of globalist elite that would guide me and others here. This is simply the democratic control that is doing its job. If we say that a bill does not go through, then that bill will not go through, as it should in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u64	That would be the case in a democracy, but I would like to say to Mrs Westerveld that a great many measures are no longer taken by the Dutch Parliament. Take, for example, the EU regulation on the Digital Green Certificate or EU plans to require a digital identity for all EU citizens. There's no bill for that in this parliament. We cannot vote against that. There is nothing we can do about it. In this respect, you are right and the Netherlands is not a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u65	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u66	No, I didn't say that. Mr Van Meijeren is bringing in all sorts of things now. This debate is about measures that have been taken. In fact, this is about a law being renewed and about measures being taken in the Netherlands, including to protect public health. My point is that if we decide by a majority that a number of things are not going to happen, we can call back the cabinet. That's how democracy works. That's my point. That has nothing to do with globalist elites or civil disobedience. That's how democracy works and how it should work. We must work together to ensure that it continues to work this way in the future. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u67	Finally, Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u68	In addition, Mrs Westerveld loses sight of the fact that dualism is no longer properly guaranteed in the Netherlands. It is not that there is a clear separation between the cabinet and the Lower House. Ministers sit on their laps with political groups. Everything is being set up in group meetings. Due to tight agreements, there are therefore also constant coalition parties that can block everything, even if a large opposition is against it. Even when it comes to measures that are not in any...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u69	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u70	I recognize that. In fact, I have just made one point in my speech that groups sometimes say that they support legislative proposals when we have not even had them. I made a point of that. Only, what I'm saying here is that that has nothing to do with a globalist world elite. This is because we have to take our job seriously, that there must be dualism in this Chamber and that we must work together to ensure that our democracy continues to function. That's what we're responsible for together. We do this by setting clear rules, by taking our task seriously and by controlling the cabinet properly. Let's keep doing that here. Let us indeed ensure that in this house we are dealing with the measures and not pointing to third parties who seem to have a finger in the mouth. That's what we're gonna do. We must be proud of our task, we must ensure that we carry it out properly, and we must continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u71	Mr. Van Meijeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u72	It is clear that there is an international agenda to force that QR code everywhere. It is no coincidence that, after having been able to beat all kinds of viruses in normal ways since time immemorial, a QR code would be needed at once in all countries. It also turns out that many members of the cabinet have very close ties with the World Economic Forum and lie about it, here in this Chamber. We have already drawn attention to this on several occasions, and yet you continue to close your eyes to it. But it is quite clear that measures which the Great Reset, like Klaus Schwab proposes, are taken under the guise of a so-called virus. For example, that corona access card, which leads to a digital identity, can be traced directly to the plans of the World Economic Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u73	Thank you. We're done with this subject now. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV. I suggest we take a five-minute break afterwards before we continue with the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had corona last week, and not exactly mild, but it was gone very quickly. The tricky thing was that I couldn't go to my workplace all week and have a bit of a messy contribution today. But I hope I'm forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u75	Sure. I'm glad you're back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u76	Thank you. I'm glad to be back here, too. We are discussing today the extension of the restrictions on freedom and the shortening of the validity of vaccination and recovery certificates. In this house, such a thing is always accompanied by a statement of reasons. We received this on 23 November from former Minister De Jonge. It was unique for Minister De Jonge that this explanatory statement was only two and a half pages, because we are used to something different from him. When preparing for the debate, I read the block on OMT advice and forecasting models. He writes: "These forecasts present a more unfavourable picture for the coming autumn and winter months than previously modelled, according to the OMT opinion. Furthermore, the OMT indicates that there is a greater degree of uncertainty with regard to previous modellings, with also a significant increase in hospital and ic admissions not excluded. In the opinion on the 128th OMT, the OMT states that additional measures are needed as soon as possible to reverse the further increase in hospital and therefore ic intakes. These additional measures must, according to the OMT, be taken to slow down the transmission of the virus." And that's how it's gonna go on for a while. This was the reason for the extension decision and for the debate we are having here today, but we all know that these forecasts and models have not been delivered. My question to the Minister is therefore: if the reason for the extension of the decision has come to an end, why do we continue to do so? It has not been said that the situation in hospitals can no longer get out of hand. We all know that in the UK there are about five times more people per capita in the hospital with corona than here. In his old role, the Minister made the right analysis, namely that structural investment in ic capacity and hospitals is needed. I wonder why that's not the line being followed. Why are we still looking at the new key agreements contained in the new government agreement, in which hospitals face new savings rather than structural investment? Once again, it may still go wrong in hospitals, but then I think that the Minister should also be working on the structural scaling up of ic capacity and hospital capacity, as he said in his old role. If necessary, he'll set up emergency hospitals. If anything goes wrong with Omikron, it's gonna go wrong real fast. If there are fewer cases in the ic's, you might need a milder alternative, in sports halls, the RAI or whatever. If the minister thinks things can still go wrong in the hospitals, I'm asking him to take action so we can get ahead of it. I would like to talk very specifically about the Public Health Act and all the possibilities it contains. I notice that the toolbox, as it is called, is mainly a panic box. We have had a situation in the Netherlands for two years where ic capacity is half less than the average in other European countries. This capacity has not even increased to the average in European countries, to around 2,000. We've got a panic box that crawls into tools and tools that don't work properly and which then locks the whole country, as happened during the last lockdown. But after two years, it's still unclear what the workings of the things in the toolbox are. On the one hand, you can do very concrete things, such as raising hospital capacity. The correct ventilation will reduce contamination. That's also proven effective. Stoken, which has become priceless, works too. There are things that work, but they're not in the toolbox. There are things in the toolbox that are hard to prove that they work, for example the 1.5 meters. This is specifically referred to in the Public Health Act as "the safe distance." I find it very special that the safe distance is currently counted at 1.5 metres. The main route that corona takes is the route of infection through the inhalation of each other's breath. If you stay at a distance of 1.5 meters, I can imagine that the chances of you breathing each other's breath and possibly inhaling corona are getting smaller. But we all know the experimental settings that show that, if you don't ventilate space properly, those virus particles can also float over a much greater distance and infect other people at a greater distance. That's why I think it's really a mistake to mention the safe distance in the Public Health Act 1.5 meters. So I actually think this should come out, because it is a much more complex whole. You don't just need the distance to not breathe each other's breath. If the space is properly ventilated and if it is fired, if it becomes affordable again, you can come a long way with regard to safety in that situation. For example, a RIVM report recently showed that the number of infections in nightclubs could decrease by up to 70% if only current ventilation guidelines were observed. That saves quite a sip on a drink if we now stand with our nose in the direction that we still want to open things up again. Then why don't we bet on the right ventilation? Then the closing of public places: closing of outdoor spaces, parks, fairs, fairs, markets, you name it. All this takes place in the outdoors. It is very strange that it is also in the new Wpg that contact in the outdoors is still seen as a danger. The risk of contagion with corona in the outdoor air is virtually nil. There was already a major investigation in China at the beginning of the pandemic, with only one case known among 7,000 cases. Also in the weekly states of RIVM, only a small proportion of these infections are known where they have taken place. Of those quarter million infections, of which we know about where they took place, the outside air is not mentioned once. If you can close all kinds of things in the air in the Wpg, you'll have that tool lying around in case you're in a panic and, I don't know, want to smash a nail with a hammer, but it's not gonna work. It's nonsensical and unnecessary. For example, there are more things that are not working properly, such as the duty to cover mouths. Let's face it, more than 37,000 tests have been carried out on mouth caps. The big common denominator of this is that if you examine them in experimental settings, they can actually block the breathing of each other's breath and therefore also work in preventing transmission and that with FFP2 masks there is a lot more chance of reducing that. But if you're going to make a rule that you don't have to do it here in the Lower House, for example, but you do in the public gallery, what are you doing? After all, at the end of the day we were in places where we had to and in places where we didn't have to. Then we go home and we know that two thirds of the infections still happen within the household. Then you also have one of those tools in that toolbox that is actually not very useful. With regard to the extension, we are mostly at an ideological crossroads. We can see that very clearly. The United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, Switzerland, Finland and parts of Spain ban all corona measures and stop everywhere, especially with corona tickets. Other countries go through with it or do a little bit more, such as Austria when it comes to vaccination. I see, above all, an ideological crossroads. In the Minister's answers to the questions, I also see that he is still on the ideological view that we should continue on the basis of those corona tickets; that is what he keeps saying. I think that's a wrong choice. It has all taken long enough to maintain restrictions on freedom. For example, I also mention the 6 million people who did not choose to take a booster shot. That was their choice, the choice of over 6 million adult Dutch. If everything continues, the green check mark will expire by Friday at the first 540,000. I don't think you can do that. I think you should also see the positive things: 92% of the 60-plussers did get the booster. I am actually asking the Minister what kind of danger he sees. That booster had to be picked up. 92% of the 60-plussers did. Where does he see the big bears on the road now? I really want to hear that from him. Then shortening the vaccination certificate. My time is fast, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u77	Yeah, you're doing great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u78	Yeah, I asked a lot of questions about that. For example, the EEA is questioning a fourth shot, because it is afraid that people's immune systems may become overloaded. But when I ask, the Minister just answers that he thinks he's gonna offer a fourth shot. If you keep doing that kind of thing and at the same time shortening the duration of time, you're actually going to continue on the basis of corona tickets. Then I don't see any good in it, and then I don't see it coming to an end. If, for example, our own Sanquin, so our own blood bank for our own population, says and sees that the protection and antibodies in people who have been through the disease decrease less than in people who have been vaccinated, then I find it very strange that the deadlines for the recovery certificate are shorter than those for the vaccination certificate. Yet the Minister says: we have agreed to do so and we do so at European level. Finally, I have one more question, Mr President. Each time the Minister says so I'm going to look in my pieces for the list of questions that we need to make right. His argument is that the cabinet has chosen to make it right with other countries in Europe. But there are still many different deadlines in Europe. Denmark quits, but Belgium, Germany, France and Austria do not apply the standard nine-month period for the vaccination certificate and a six-month period for the recovery certificate. So the argument that the other countries are doing it and we must do it is no longer valid. So I ask the Minister to stop using the corona tickets, so that he does not have to cut them down. But if he wants to go through with it, let him at least make sure that we make our own rules, because so do Germany and France. We can simply say: we will allow the recovery certificates and the corona tickets to be valid for the time being, and we will see how things are going to develop in the Netherlands. Perhaps we will then choose the ideological path of Finland, Denmark and Spain. Then at least we don't have to fight all these fights and we're a little bit on the way back to our old normal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u79	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then suspend the sitting for five minutes, then move on to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u80	I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u81	Mr. Chairman. How temporary is a law when the fourth extension for this Chamber is a routine matter? As far as JA21 is concerned, there is no such thing as self-evidentity. My group wants a hard time before the end of the measures. It must be made clear when the measures are finally over, even if they are "temporarily" labeled, just as Finland and Denmark have done. If we can do it there, we can do it here. I would like a response from the Minister to the need for a hard time to scale down the measures. That hard date is of great importance to my group. Our country craves it. How long are we gonna string entrepreneurs, students and athletes around? The possibility of dramatic scenarios is becoming increasingly less credible. That line breaks once, because the rack goes out. Does the Minister see that different experts can think differently about the same circumstances? And does the Minister see that policy makers are supposed to make a trade-off that sees beyond virological expectations and epidemiological models? Is the Minister prepared to scale the role of the OMT? For some time now, this Chamber has been calling for a better balance between medical, economic and psychosocial interests. This seems to be a good time for that. Enough is enough. No wonder that schools, companies, sports clubs, culture and catering en masse report to politics. The feeling that it's been enough is gaining strength. These are the days of the corona crisis in which the pandemic clears the field for the endemic phase. Feeded by social and economic pressure, the cabinet is already working on alleviating the measures, but still with the hand brake of this non-working corona access card firmly attracted. Extension of the Twm is part of a crisis. Keeping this crisis law in the air because it's so convenient for the toolbox doesn't fit the current situation with the omikron variant. Does the Minister agree with JA21 that the Twm is appropriate to an epidemic, but not to the endemic phase we have now entered? Vaccination reduces the risk of hospitalization. For JA21 it is a means to contain corona, based on voluntaryness. I am therefore shocked by the unhindered threat of vaccination by the Council of State. The opinion dates from 10 November 2021. I say "dates" and I add "dates." For my group, this has never been a solution. In the current situation, it is certainly indefenable. We have been repeatedly confirmed that 2G and 3G do not work, except in the laboratory. We know of the decreasing effects of vaccines, of permanent infection after vaccination and of booster pricks that are unfortunately less effective against omikron than against the previous variants. More than half of the population has not yet had three vaccinations and has not even officially been adequately vaccinated. However, there is still an opinion from the government's main advisory body. This suggests that there is a choice between lifting the measures on the one hand and requiring vaccination on the other. That's very bad. Will the Minister expressly distance himself from the false contradiction between people who have been vaccinated and those who, for various reasons, are not? Mr. Chairman. Giving up power is harder than pulling power at you. That appears to be again with the extension of the Twm. The cabinet stresses that maintaining the Twm does not mean actually imposing measures. For specific measures, a balance must always be made between necessity and proportionality. This is an instrumental point of view, because it is not just about the actual application of the measures. The point is that they can be hit. It is about an emergency law that provides the basis for deep intervention in privacy. It's about fundamental rights. We consider them so important that Article 1 of the Constitution is chiseled in front of the House of Representatives. If Article 1 is granite, then the subsequent rights and freedoms cannot be based on quicksand. The Twm is an emergency law for a state of emergency. Does the Minister agree that an emergency law should be repealed when the state of emergency is over? Will the Minister confirm that the assessment of the extension of the Twm should not be based on whether measures are actually being taken, but on whether the situation further justifies the basis which makes it possible to take these measures? It is too early to make a final assessment of the measures taken under the Twm flag. However, the cabinet manages to link every lockdown and curfew with a strong conviction with a decrease in the number of infections. JA21 regrets that the credible justification of measures is always subordinate to the desire to keep the toolbox as full as possible. Research after research shows that the ctb hardly works. 2G doesn't work either. JA21 doesn't want a delay. JA21 wants to adjust. Does the Minister agree with my group that the government should not fill a toolbox with deep-grabbing powers and powers, just because it is so convenient to keep them in hand? The extension of the Twm disrupts normal relations between parliament and government. In the request for an opinion to the Council of State, the cabinet writes: "When taking measures and considering their impact on citizens and businesses, the epidemiological situation and the social and economic aspects of measures, as well as the manageability and explainability of measures (in terms of communication and behaviour) are considered in each case." Mr. Chairman. It is no longer the circumstances that require renewal. It is the models that demand renewal, because it can always go wrong. They are scenarios in which anything is possible, except to say goodbye to exceptional power in a situation of crisis. With that clinging to uncertainty, my group is ready. For JA21 the time has come to return to the old normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u82	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is the House of Commons acting like lamb or like lion? I was reminded of that when Mr Van Meijeren was speaking. Are we gonna lie on our backs with the legs up, because we wouldn't have any influence on the corona policy, or are we gonna use the lion's mighty leg to stop the cabinet if it does the wrong thing? I found it unfortunate that the Forum for Democracy, Mr Van Meijeren, gave the impression that we had nothing to say here, just on the day that this minister, under influence and pressure from society and under pressure from this House of Representatives, was forced to remove the 2G law. I think that's an important moment. I also think that you should not talk so condescendingly and think about your own position, but that you should use that position to control this cabinet, adjust it and, if necessary, send it away, if you feel the need as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has said several times that we are facing a new phase of the pandemic. As far as the SP is concerned, this new phase must also have consequences. It must have an impact on the way in which we are fighting this crisis. We've had a discussion before about when we should have an OMT opinion. Do we have a debate here first and then there will be a press conference or do we do it the other way around, as was always the case? That is the kind of discussion we need to have right now. We have to get out of crisis mode, as a parliament, as a political one. We must combat this pandemic, the epidemic, in a different way. We no longer see sending the press conference to press conference. We need to tackle this in a different way, a more structural way. We can see that this is not sustainable. Mr. Chairman. I remember that we dealt with the emergency law on the corona measures, as it was popularly called. That was in October 2020. Mrs. Van Esch is nodding. I just checked it out. Mrs Van Esch had then asked for 30 minutes, unlike the Forum for Democracy, because that party did not participate in the whole debate, but that aside. So that's our role. An amendment by Mrs Buitenweg was adopted in the debate on that law. This amendment regulates the procedures applicable to the arrangements submitted by the Cabinet if a particular measure is to be taken. That amendment contained Article 58c (3). This is about the question: when exactly are we going to put in the urgent procedure, where a measure is going to go into effect, but the House of Representatives will only be able to discuss it afterwards? We've been counting for a while this week. In the nearly one and a half years that we are working with this law, the cabinet, in particular Hugo de Jonge, the predecessor of this minister, has called on the emergency procedure 32 times. That is, of course, extremely common. It is far too often when you consider that many of the measures taken should have been taken much more carefully, in good consultation with and under good control of the House of Representatives. During the same debate, I tabled a motion to work not on the basis of emergency legislation and emergency legislation, but to come up with a structural adaptation of the Public Health Act. Mr Van Haga already referred to that motion. He's right when he says that the Cabinet is actually using that motion to not amend the Public Health Act. The law needs to be evaluated first. The crisis policy needs to be evaluated before we can achieve a more structural approach. That is, of course, incorrect; that evaluation could have been made a long time ago. We've moved on through a year and a half, so we're not gonna wait until the Cabinet evaluates once, so we can get a decent approach and get that law amended for once. Mr. Chairman. The question we must also ask today is: are the measures that are being taken actually proportionate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u84	I did mention that motion in my speech. The previous minister gave a certain reading. Can I draw your attention to the fact that the Minister wrongly used that reading and that your reading is a completely different one, namely that an evaluation must be carried out, but that we should not do so in this way, so that it happens with so much delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u85	That's right. Then we have to go back to the debate in October 2020. That's when I filed that motion. The Minister asked, "How am I supposed to read this motion?" Should the adaptation of the Public Health Act come very soon, or can we first look back at how we have worked lately and then come up with a proposal for adaptation? That seemed a logical order to me: first to see what went well and what did not go well and then to make an adjustment. Only, of course, that does not mean that you are going to sit down and evaluate or not, which means that we now have to extend the crisis law for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u86	So, in conclusion, that motion has been abused... That may be a bit of a big word, but in the end that motion is now being "abused" in order to take much longer. That was not the intention of Mr Hijink's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u87	I don't have to make my own motion that important. I do not think the whole approach to this pandemic depends on the evaluation of the Heink motion. I don't believe that. Furthermore, the motion was incredibly good, though. In general, I simply think that the evaluation could have been there by now. It just needs to be done quickly. It's not okay if you run the country on the basis of emergency legislation for two years. That seems incredibly unhealthy. Mr. Chairman. How proportionate are the measures still? Then, for example, it is also about the corona pass. A lot has been said about it. The SP wants an update. Mrs Bikker asked for that too. We want an update from the Council of State on legislative proposals on the corona tickets that are now in place. I ask the Minister to make that request to the Council of State. Whether or not that should be about 2G, we should see. But I think that the Council of State is updating the opinion, also because, of course, circumstances have changed enormously. The law may have remained the same, but the circumstances have changed enormously. We also read this morning, of course, the Minister's letter on 2G and the bill on that issue. We have been somewhat surprised at the request made by the Minister to the House of Representatives, namely: hold on for a while. I have to say it right. He asked the House of Representatives to uphold this law for a while: "Leave him somewhere and let me do some research to see if we can do something about it." The SP Group doesn't approve of that. That's not the way we have to deal with this law. There's a lot of pressure from society to stop this law. There is also a lot of pressure from the Lower House to stop this law. In my view, it really has become a symbol: a split swarm throughout the corona politics. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that don't go on research for months until you find another figure that fits your own objectives, but just look at what is happening in society. Look at what's happening here in the House of Representatives. Look at what happens to the new virus variants and acknowledge that this measure simply doesn't fit in with that anymore. We have an investigation from TU Delft. It says that the effectiveness of 2G is very limited. There is no need for new research at all, as it already states that under other circumstances, i.e. if the difference in protection against the virus between vaccinated and unvaccinated people would be greater, 2G might be more effective. The problem... It's not a problem. The point is, it's going the other way. More and more people become infected and build up a natural form of protection. A lot of other people have been vaccinated and have also had a booster. They have also built up more protection. So he is not going to find the direction the minister is looking for, because the reality is that more and more people have developed a form of protection against corona. That will only become more in the coming period. In the eyes of the SP, the effectiveness of 2G will be less than more. I see my time is running again, so I'll keep going. I would like to return to a quote from this minister's predecessor, Hugo de Jonge. He said at a press conference on 26 November: 1.2 million people have not yet built up protection against corona, but by the end of this winter everyone will probably be protected, either by vaccination or by the virus. He also said at the same press conference: that means that we have built up very high levels of protection against the virus. I think this is a sensible language, even if you see with the omikron variant how fast the number of infections is increasing and how many people are getting infected at the moment. Also look at the vaccination rate and how many people have been vaccinated and boosted. Then you can only see that the protection against the virus has actually only grown. Then we have to talk about the exact percentages. This includes the validity of the corona admission certificate. My predecessors have already spoken about this. In the coming week, more than 0.5 million people are at risk of losing their corona admissions because it is no longer valid because their vaccination has been administered more than 270 days, nine months ago. We really think it is a bad development that it is going this way. This means that we are now going to say to people who are vaccinated: you are no longer participating in society unless you are tested. But that is not what you can expect from people who have kept to the rules, who have been properly vaccinated, but who will be denied access to the café or whatever? The figures below are not particularly convincing either. For example, the Minister writes that after two vaccinations, i.e. basic vaccination, the protection against hospitalisation is still 85%. That's really high: 85%. Of that you would say: you can take another risk with that. What does a booster do? It increases that percentage to 97%. On the basis of these figures, the Minister then concludes that this is a justification for depriving these people of the corona ticket. We consider that to be extremely dubious. The risk of ic uptake is much lower. According to the figures presented by the Minister himself, the primary vaccinations protect 93% from ic intake. So we don't see at all why you should shorten that term. One more question about this. The number of 540,000 refers to the number of people who lose the coronapas after vaccination, but of course there is also a group that has a coronapas based on a proof of recovery. My question to the Minister is: how big is this group, which is threatened by the new rules, to lose the coronapas? Mr. Chairman. I think we should talk about confidence in vaccination policy, also as a result of this type of proposal. The corona entry card started last year as a temporary measure. I still hear Minister De Jonge say: "We're going to use that for events: think of Lowlands. After that time, we won't see the corona evidence again." Still, it didn't stop. However, we now have the situation that so many people are at risk of losing their pass. I really think you should be very careful about that. I think the cabinet should choose. Or you want to stay in crisis mode, keep emergency legislation. Or, and I think the Minister has said this before, we need to get out of crisis mode. But that means that you have to get rid of the crisis measures, that you have to go to normal, regular legislation, to the Public Health Act to deal with the crisis in a decent way. This also includes the fact that the cabinet makes it clear to what extent measures still fit the objectives of the cabinet. What are the targets? Protecting the vulnerable? Well, we don't know exactly, because there's so many people infected now that we actually have no idea how many people are really gonna get sick of it. Keeping an eye on the virus? We have no idea how many people are infected, where the virus is going, where the infections take place. The BCO, the source and contact research, hasn't been done or barely done for months, because it just can't be looked at anymore. Control the pressure on care? We see that the number of recordings is now increasing. I think Mrs Agema has said some sensible things about that. What is happening at the moment is really not without risk. However, one cannot say that the reality of increasing contagion is still somewhat related to the objectives that the cabinet has set for itself, whether it is protecting the care or being able to monitor the virus. I don't think you can hold on to both when you look at the numbers we're seeing today. So what would the SP want better? Clear goals, more peace in policy, less variation in all kinds of different regimes. For example, we talked about opening hours: do you have to close at 10 p.m. or close at 8 p.m.? We have been very busy here in the House of Representatives over the last year and a half with this jam on the square millimeter, when you can wonder if that is the way we still want to fight the virus. More clarity is also good for the sectors that have been affected by the measures for so long. We suggest we do that. After two years, the crisis policy is really ready for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing whether, in the current situation, the corona law and the accompanying corona ticket should remain. We therefore have a contribution consisting of two parts, first of all the corona admission ticket itself. Let me be honest and clear: the Party for Animals was against that corona admission ticket and remains against that corona admission ticket. In fact, we only see more reasons than ever to stop. I'm glad the Minister seems to be getting that insight when it comes to 2G. But why doesn't this minister simply withdraw the 2G plans completely, we wonder? He is now saying that he is going to look for a way to make it a proportional measure, but that is really the wrong order as far as we are concerned. So you're gonna look for arguments to get a plan going anyway. If this minister doesn't see anything in 2G, what makes his estimate for 3G different? Why is he still convinced of that 3G model? In this way, the Minister continues to hold on to the means of access tickets, which seem to work in theory in particular, while in practice this does not prove to be effective and even causes damage by excluding people. Effectiveness, proportionality, justice; almost everyone seems to agree at the moment that it is not sufficiently substantiated, yet it remains. There is little left of the temporaryity promised at the time. I therefore have a number of questions for this Minister. Is it true that the Public Health Act states that a vaccination-based entry permit should provide a similar chance of transfer to a negative test? To what extent is this still going on, if the RIVM even indicated in December that the protection of vaccination against transmission with omikron has fallen to 21% without booster and 60% with booster? In short, is the use of the QR code still in line with the requirements of the same law? Of course, vaccination helps, especially against hospitalizations. But if you were already in favour of the ticket, wouldn't these be the figures to support the fact that people can be denied access to life if you support it? And then, of course, even more in principle. We are really wondering: what is the purpose of the ticket? Is that still limiting the number of infections? If, on the one hand, we accept that there are more than 100,000 infections a day, it cannot be maintained that limiting infections is still so important that we allow society to be divided about them in this way. What are the latest insights into false safety at the moment? We warned about this during the introduction. Does the Minister share the analysis that when people with green ticks have entered somewhere, they will not comply with the rules in force? The feeling that it is safe, then simply prevails at that time. Finally, on the admission ticket: temporaryity; I have already mentioned it. What is left of the words that were said about this, for example, at the beginning of September? The then Minister of VWS said that the corona admission ticket is a measure that is deployed as temporarily as possible. The Prime Minister also said that this measure is temporary and hopefully very temporary. At present, only little of these words seem true. The memory of the promise of temporaryity is also addressed to parties who say that it is just nice to have 2G or even 3G in such a toolbox. More parties were talking about that today. As far as we are concerned, you are not dealing with such far-reaching fundamental rights-limiting measures. They are not nice to have, especially if they alone have negative effects by announcing them, contribute to polarisation or, for example, cause people to be deliberately infected. As far as we are concerned, a government that restricts civil liberties also has a responsibility to the citizens to do everything in their power to lift those restrictions as quickly as possible. As far as we are concerned, a government that restricts civil liberties must do everything in its power to ensure that it is never again. Which brings me to the extension of the law before us today. At the beginning of the pandemic, it was important to let go of the undemocratic emergency regulations we had at the time and to deal with the corona crisis legally properly. Mr. Hijink already talked about it: we had 30 minutes in October 2020 to discuss that law. It was also very necessary to discuss this law properly, because from one day to the next it was necessary to take far-reaching measures against the spread of the virus. And rightly so, I'm gonna say it again. But then came the cabinet, I say it in all honesty with a dragon of a law in which the minister of VWS drew a lot of power. After a lot of criticism, that law was amended then, but certainly also after amendments by coalition and opposition, Mrs Buitenweg's amendment was mentioned here, here in the Chamber that law finally came into force. I say no more dragon, but as far as the Animal Party is concerned it is far from as good as it should be. That is why we voted against and will continue to vote against this current Corona Act. We're against that corona law, because as a government, you can't restrict civil liberties if you don't do everything you can to prevent it. There was and still needs to be a good law which, as far as we are concerned, regulates two things well. The full involvement of Parliament must be guaranteed in advance and prevention must be used. Even then, we indicated that. As far as we are concerned, both the prevention of new zoonoses and the improvement of broad public health are essential, but both are not yet regulated. Let me ask you again: when is the comprehensive approach to improving public health? When will there be a firm plan to prevent, for example, the avian flu from going around and mutating so that it can pass from human to human? When can the Chamber simply get the plans of this cabinet before a press conference and debate them again? Because what happened recently was exactly the opposite. The Chamber got the OMT report way too late every time. As Mr Hijink said, the Minister used 32 times in this Chamber the urgency procedure which was intended only for real emergencies. We have also looked up the same information that the SP had requested. And the Chamber was confronted each time with fulfilled facts. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. It is essential that the government simply re-presents its plans to the House of Representatives, which is the subject of the debate and then simply implements the policy. Or, as far as we are concerned, how they intend to organise the press conference is up to the ministers, but let me give them a tip: please use the right figures. Let's get back to the normal procedure here in the Chamber and get rid of this emergency law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u90	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u91	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. For the fourth time, the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is now being extended. The extension gives the law a structural character. As far as I'm concerned, that can never be the intention. It is beginning to appear that it is useful to extend the law over and over again, because a lot of curved, polarizing, non-working and freedom-limiting measures can hang over our heads. However, there is no more emergency. What is there is a violation of civil rights, such as the ban on access to normal social activities such as an amusement park, a café, a theatre for a large group of people who use their fundamental rights by not being tested. Parties can't like that here or they might think it's really stupid, but these people just have that right. That right, especially in the situation we are now in, can never be reason to exclude these people from normal society. Yes, the "normal" society, because the society we have now is not normal. How proportional is all this still? How long are we gonna go through with this? Mr. Chairman. I can list many more measures that have led to a great deal of suffering throughout society with this now unnecessary emergency law, but I will now try to concentrate on the reason why I believe that the emergency law should not be extended. Besides, also 2G should definitely be off the table. No delay, set-off! Get rid of it! And as far as I'm concerned, that horrible coronapas is coming along fast. Mr. Chairman. The covid pandemic turns into a covidemia. It is a virus that is nestled in the population and will remain in society, as many viruses have done before. It is a virus that lives up when people's resistance decreases, as many viruses have done before. The endemic character of covid calls for the emergency law linea recta to end up in the trash, so that it only becomes a bad memory of a terrible time. Of course, a terrible time. I do not deny that people have become ill and have been ill. I don't deny that people have died. I do not deny that there are people who have been complaining for a long time. Nor do I deny that care has been postponed. But let's not deny that many people have become depressed, that more young people are in psychological distress, that the suicide rate among young people has increased, that children have had psychosocial problems because they were no longer allowed to go to school, that entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt, and that children were told: you can't go to grandma and grandpa, because you can make them sick and die. What emotional burden has been placed on these children? Even UNICEF rang the bell with us: what are you doing? Words matter, even in children. Let us not forget that families, associations and groups of friends have fallen apart. Let us not forget that there has been a division in society that is unprecedented in this century. Mr. Chairman. Returning to the law: the endemic nature of the virus requires that the House of Representatives be able to decide in advance on measures to be taken and not afterward. The so-called follow-up procedure should only be used in a crisis situation. I have tabled an amendment to this effect together with Mrs Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga. In view of the previous speakers, I am counting on broad support. Although covid still controls our lives, we are lucky to get out of the crisis. The cabinet writes that a disease becomes endemic if it remains at or below an acceptable level for a longer period of time without significant measures. What does this mean? So what do we find far-reaching measures and what is an acceptable level? How many hospitalizations is that? How many ic-recordings is that? How many positive tests is that? Can the Minister state what the aforementioned sentence means? 'Cause this is kind of fuzzy. We read in the report that adapting the Public Health Act is part of a long-term strategy, but as far as I could see this morning it was still not on my desk. The report also states that the Cabinet is aware that this means that it is possible that there will be further extensions of the Twm (Temporary Law measures). No. Triumph no! A long-term vision, please, but no more extensions, which are no longer necessary. Get rid of the emergency bill! Down with 2G! Get rid of the coronapas! That's enough. It's done. It's time to live again. It's time to heal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u92	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u93	Madam President. Since the start of the corona crisis, the SGP has stressed that legal corona measures should not go beyond what is strictly necessary. This calls for a continuous, careful consideration of freedoms, rights and interests. The SGP supported the introduction of this temporary corona law in the crisis phase because it provided better guarantees than the emergency regulations in force. For example, the temporary law contains provisions on the democratic legitimacy of the measures, the involvement of parliament and municipal councils, and a review framework to assess measures proportionality, necessity and effectiveness. Furthermore, the temporaryity of the law was expressly provided for: up to three months with possibility of extension. Today we are discussing the fourth extension of this law. That extension shall cover the period from December 2021 to February 2022. It's been almost two years since the corona crisis broke out and a lockdown was declared for the first time. At the present stage, the SGP considers that even greater restraint to take far-reaching restrictions on freedom is needed. In line with the epidemiological situation at the moment, where the omikron variant causes many infections but leads to much less long-term hospitalisations, the SGP has long insisted that the responsibility of society should be more addressed. We have therefore tabled a motion for a step-by-step reduction of the corona measures in the last Corona debate. Mr. Chairman. The most important measure the SGP wants to get rid of as soon as possible is the corona admission ticket. We have not given any support from the outset to include this measure in the law. That was also reason for us not to support an earlier extension. This instrument is not sufficiently effective and proportionate. I ask the Minister when the coronapas will be abolished. It has just emerged that there is an extension of the law with 2G measures. We are, of course, talking about a postponement in the government's letter, a step in the right direction, but we have also tabled a motion which says: it is now time to move forward, not to postpone it any longer, but to postpone it; let it not be part of this law. We are still advocating this and would like to put this motion to a roll-call vote shortly. Mr. Chairman. The government advocates the fourth extension with the argument that, for the sake of certainty, a toolbox of instruments should be ready, should the situation deteriorate again. We are critical of that argument, because it is very easy to maintain far-reaching powers as a precautionary measure. In view of the very profound possibilities offered by this law, we consider this to be too far-reaching. We shall also vote against this extension, taking into account all this, as we did last time. I would ask the Minister to look at how things are going with this temporary corona law, in the government's perspective. Is the expectation that there will now be a further extension? Can the Minister outline the prospects for the phasing out of measures and the dismantling of this legal construction of the temporary corona law? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions about the ministerial arrangement on the change in the period of validity of the corona access card. In fact, it was agreed that we would involve this in this debate. The reason is understandable: hundreds of thousands of people lose the green check mark. Is this not at the expense of legal certainty, I ask the Minister, now that people were first told that a shot would be valid indefinitely and now two restrictions are added? You need to get a booster and it's valid for up to nine months. For young people between 12 and 18 years of age, the validity of their vaccine certificate expires anyway. They cannot yet get a booster shot in many cases and will therefore have to be tested. Work on a tailor-made solution is my final question when it comes to this ministerial arrangement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u94	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The number of infections has exploded, but so far the hospitals, and certainly the ICUs, remain a piece of army than before. And yet the Minister says that it is too early to say with certainty that we can abandon all measures without affecting public health. Mr. Chairman. This Law provides for temporary measures covid-19 to be used or not. In the past, we have seen what it does to people if we let go of the measures too early, and then have to re-introduce them. We saw that when we didn't have to wear the masks anymore. When the number of infections increased again, it turned out to be useful to start wearing those mouth masks again, as well as abolishing the one-and-a-half meter distance measure, which then came back again, but the mind is out of the bottle. That is why I think it is right to abandon the basic rules and the ctb only if we are sure that this is really justified. And that is why it is so important to look at a long-term strategy, that we do not live from crisis to crisis and always have to take inexplicable ad hoc measures. Then about the validity of the corona pass. It is a good thing that we are discussing this today, because shortening this period of validity is not a decision that the cabinet can take without discussing it with the Chamber. The Minister wants to go with the European Union when it comes to the number of days that the proof is valid, because that gives clarity. However, I read in the Minister's letter that a scientific basis for this period of validity of 270 and 180 days is not precise. But what are these numbers based on? Can the Minister explain that for once? The paper ctb is still less valid; 90 days only. The Minister replied to a written question that the digital ctb could modify data of validity without the intervention of the user and that could not be done with a paper ctb. But there's also a QR code on the paper evidence. Whether the digital or the paper QR code is scanned, doesn't it matter? These data come from the same data file and can therefore be modified. Can the Minister explain to me again why the paper evidence is still less valid than the electronic evidence? I also welcome the commitment made by the Minister in the previous debate, namely that he will check whether the people using a paper ctb are automatically sent this evidence. Is there anything he can say about that? Finally, Mr President. Everyone thinks differently about this law and about all the corona measures and the corona pass. But what we all agree on and what we want most is a society without any obstacles. Until that is possible, I will at least agree to this fourth extension of the Twm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u96	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. Then I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are once again considering the much discussed corona law. That is a democratic law, in which all measures on corona are anchored. And now we are debating the question: do we want to stop extending until 1 March? As far as my group is concerned, it is far too early for that. Let me put it first: it's a law that I'd rather lose than be rich, because it's a very far-reaching law. But the pandemic isn't over yet. Someone in this room said it before: we are in a grey area. We are currently taking a risk as the Netherlands, because we are relaxing while the infections are getting worse. Less than a week ago, we were in this Chamber talking about the political considerations we are making. Today we have voted on the various proposals. Now I hear many groups asking the same questions, while I actually hope that this Minister is working very hard to outline to us what the coming months will look like. There is a great need for clarity and perspective for entrepreneurs, culture makers, young people, the catering industry and also for me. I also wonder: how long do we have to live with measures? I would therefore like to have the debate if we have that perspective. For now, I'm focusing on extending this corona law. I support it until 1 March because the situation is still very uncertain. Removing everything immediately would be too fast. That doesn't just say science. We also see it in other countries. I am very curious about the plans for the rest of this winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u98	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs. Agema, PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u99	I am curious about the ideological direction that D66 intends to take. Does it choose freedom, such as the United Kingdom, Denmark, Finland and parts of Spain? Or does it still support corona tickets and 2G, such as countries such as Germany, France and Austria, and the path of mandatory vaccination? We are now at a crossroads in Europe. Countries choose different directions. Which way does D66 want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u100	I hope that will not surprise Mrs Agema, because that is the direction of society open, as long as possible and not back again. I don't want to tell any more schoolchildren that the school's closing anyway. I do not want to say to the cultural sector: we must close the curtains again. We choose freedom, an open society. Mrs Agema struck the comparison with Denmark, among others. That is now removed from the measures because it has done a number of things that we have not done. But we choose freedom and an open society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u101	At what time does Mrs Paulusma have that in mind? At the moment, it supports the extension of restrictions on freedom, the imposition of restrictions on the use of masks and the imposition of rules in public space, in fairs and markets corona tickets and the extension in secondary and higher vocational education. When? If Mrs Paulusma does want the ideological direction of freedom, when does D66 want it? Because the moment D66 stops supporting the policy, it's also done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u102	I refer to the words of Mrs Westerveld, who said in her speech: I do not have a glass ball. I don't have any. I think Mrs Agema and I actually agree on quite a lot of points. We want fewer people to get sick or suffer from corona. As far as I am concerned, the measures have been imposed. Unfortunately, I do not have a glass ball, so in this case I sail to what science says and also see in countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u103	We all don't have a glass ball. Corona holds us all in a hold much longer than we wanted. But we also see that the so-called tools in the toolbox have not provided any relief either. Despite the corona tickets, the positive tests went through the roof. We also see now that the correlation between positive tests and ic-recordings is completely gone. It could still go wrong. I know, and I don't deny it. In the United Kingdom five times more people per capita are in hospital than here. But when does D66 say: it is now done with these measures? I understand from Mrs Paulusma that she wants freedom too, but when does D66 want freedom? You don't need a glass ball for that either. I want it now. I want the Minister to do something structural about the ic capacity and maybe do something about emergency hospitals. But I want it now. Then what are the preconditions for D66... or else I'm wasting all my interruptions. What are the preconditions for D66? When does D66 choose the path of freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u104	Madam President, perhaps you would like to help me to answer all these questions properly in one interruption. It's not a hobby of ours, is it? I hear Mrs Agema say: a lot of people suffer from this. I get those e-mails and we also think this is a struggle, every day. It is always very relevant to us, too, what science does to us and what experience experts do to us. That is a kind of guidance that allows you to conduct policies in a crisis. And yes, Mrs. Agema, we're in another phase. That's why I just said it's a struggle, but I still don't have a glass ball. As long as we have this level of infection, we don't know if there's another variant and I talk to new patients with lung covid every day, I want to be a little careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u105	Mrs. Agema also asked about the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're trying to help me, but this isn't helping me enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u107	When's D66 going on? Of course, I am not going to deny that there are problems with lung covid, especially in view of all those caregivers who had to do their job unprotected during the first wave and who had to deal with lung covid. Thirteen carers have also died from it. So, of course, I'm not going to trivialize that, but I'm talking about the situation now. Now that we are at a crossroads in Europe, are we going ideologically towards freedom, such as Denmark, Finland, Ireland and the United Kingdom, or are we going to continue to extend those corona tickets, 2G and those things? I see D66 on that point so far. D66 supports the extension of the corona access tickets, the extension and all the measures currently contained in the toolbox, for which scientific evidence is lacking. So at what point is D66 going to take the other exit? It is a very important question, because then we will be done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u108	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u109	When D66's out, we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u110	I would very much like it to be so easy, but I think you share that with me that corona is something that has surprised us every time. I'll speak through the chairman, excuse me. Mrs Agema is therefore asking to mark a point on the calendar. I'm not gonna do that because we don't know what's left in the barrel. I am not saying that we should lock up for the rest of our lives, but I liked what Mrs Den Haan just said: the biggest disappointment in society may be that we keep closing up and closing up. I just want us to open up and stay open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u111	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u112	We've never been free again. Since March 2020, we can't hug each other and shake hands. So it's a little disproportionate to say here that we open and then close again. We've never been open again. We haven't been allowed to hug our loved ones in two years. Those are the rules that apply now. I didn't ask for a date. I didn't ask for a date. I asked about the terms. There are 200 people on the ICU right now. Surely it cannot be that we live in a country where we can't even handle it, that 17,5 million people are faced with restrictions of freedom? Children are lagging behind in school as well as young people doing vocational training. There are so many children and young people who have mental problems and even suicidal tendencies. This is because we have 200 people on ICI in total panic situations in this country and there is no structural increase in ic and hospital capacity. When will it be ready for D66? It is not a date, it is a date, it is a date, it is a date, it is a time and it is a framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u113	I agree with Mrs Agema that we need to invest, not just in the ic but in the whole chain approach. If Corona taught us anything, it's that we have to invest in the front. That is not a condition to open, but it is one of the lessons learned. That is why I would like to have the debate on the long-term strategy, because then we in this Chamber can also debate the conditions that allow us to get rid of the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u114	There are several colleagues who want to make an interruption. In conclusion, Mrs Agema, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u115	This is really false. D66 doesn't want to invest. I have tabled a motion here, like other colleagues, to increase the ic capacity structurally to at least the European average of 2,000, but D66 always votes against it. The situation in which we have come to terms with the main agreements, which have led us from five years before the crisis to the crisis of 914 ic nurses and which have seen 16 ic's close, is not being improved, because the D66 government agreement has new basic agreements and another 1.5 billion is being cut out of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u116	Thank you. Your story is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u117	So if D66 claims to want to invest here, my question is when?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u118	We don't agree on this. No, I don't think we should just invest in the ICUs. It has to be in a chain approach. There is also a large amount of money reserved for this in the coalition agreement. I am very happy to work with you to ensure that we are pandemically better prepared for another pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u119	D66 indicates to be in favour of extending the Corona Law. They are therefore in favour of placing the powers still on the government to take these major measures which restrict freedom. In the written round of the bill, D66 indicated that it was in favour of the extension of this law, because they considered the section on corona tickets so important. I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma, who speaks on behalf of D66: why is D66 so for these tickets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u120	I also said in my speech that we are voting in favour of extension, because we simply know too little and are in that grey area. That makes us say yes to extension now. But I will be following this Minister very critically and asking about the long term, because then we will no longer have to have this kind of debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u121	Mrs Paulusma does not answer my question. It was one of the first things D66 mentioned in the written preparation of this bill, namely: we consider it important to extend this law, because then we will also extend the corona tickets. It's a simple question: why is D66 so for those corona tickets? Or isn't D66? Then we have a unique situation and then we can abolish it, because it is a measure that leads to division and it is discrimination against people who have not been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u122	I'll leave the conclusion and correlation with Mr. Van Baarle. We always participate in every written round. We are also at every debate, because we have many questions, are critical and look at the corona access card as one of the means. Believe me, if we don't need it, it'll go out tomorrow. Then you can make a correlation and say we push it through. No, we're curious, and that's why we're asking questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u123	Finally, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u124	Again, D66 is not clear. Again, I say through the President, you do not give a clear answer to the question. Are you in favour of these corona tickets and should we continue to do so? I refer to the research that shows that it is not effective, or should we stop now because it is a measure that leads to exclusion and is not scientifically substantiated? Give me a clear answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u125	I'm afraid I'm not going to please Mr. Van Baarle. It's never been an end in itself for us. It never will be. It's a mix. If that mix, this part, is needed to stay open, then we will discuss it and debate it. We've also asked a lot of questions. We are waiting for the answer and then we are going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u126	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Van Haga. I think he had an interruption, didn't he? Not that I'd like to invite you extra, Mr. Van Haga. Looks like it now. In the meantime, I will give Mr Van Baarle the floor, because I think he would like to ask another question. But no more repetition, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u127	No, really rounding up. I try to put the question very clearly, because there is still no answer from D66. Given that there is scientific research to show that the corona admission ticket, 3G and 2G are not effective, and given that it is a measure leading to exclusion and vaccination urge, do you believe that the corona admission ticket is still effective and that we should do so? And...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u128	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u129	And I don't want you referring to the minister. Or do you say, no, we shouldn't? I think it's a very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u130	Thanks to Mr. Van Baarle for the question. The investigation you are referring to is also the investigation into the current situation in this crisis. I say that I will also repeat that we do not yet know what another variant is, what this winter is going to do and what this minister's long-term plan is. I don't want to rule things out in advance. I think an instrument in this box has given rise to enormous debate in society. I also feel responsible for doing something about it, but at least this is not helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u131	Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. I would like to ask colleagues not to always ask the same question; you can also work together, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u132	Yeah, we work with everyone, of course. If D66 wants to violate fundamental rights, I have listed them all, then there must be a state of emergency. I would like to hear from Mrs Paulusma what she thinks is a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u133	Thank you for the question, Mr. Van Haga. In my speech I deliberately mentioned the grey area. We have taken measures to sustain a crisis. I remember very well that when I was working in the hospital and this happened, we were all staring at each other and asking, "What's going on here?" I wasn't in the Chamber at the time, but I can imagine the atmosphere here was the same. And yes, we are now in a grey area. That calls for a very careful consideration. That also calls for a response from the Minister. On that basis, as far as I'm concerned, we'll look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u134	That gray area is weird. That in March 2020 people panicked, that is possible. Mrs Agema just said something about that. That for the greater honour and glory of the people who then made those decisions. I didn't agree with it at the time either, but okay, you can. But now we're not in a gray area anymore. There's 200 people on the ICU. Isn't it completely ridiculous, as Mrs Agema just said, that with so few people on ICU, out of a total of 17 million people, you still speak of a state of emergency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u135	Then I'm gonna repeat myself. Because I just said in my speech: we're in a grey area. Mr Van Haga can't deny that the figures are really going through the roof, that there is probably also a change and that countries around us can now make relaxations because they had much stricter rules. I want to open society as much as Mr. Van Haga does, but that has to be done safely. I am standing before all those people who are still on a waiting list and all those people who are vulnerable and sitting at home with an immunity problem, so they haven't been able to go out for two years. It's a very precarious balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u136	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u137	Yeah, finally. The grey area should not consist of Mrs Paulusma thinking that perhaps, with a very small chance, another variant is coming, or that the infections are high, while they do not lead to problems in the care. They're not here anymore. It's over. So you can't say there's a state of emergency, because Mrs Paulusma might expect that. That state of emergency is no longer there. When that state of emergency comes again, I'm the first to say: fine, then we're going to come up with something new. But at the moment there is no reason to maintain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u138	That's not what Mr. Van Haga and I are gonna agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u139	Yes. Mr Hijink, SP, and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u140	I think D66 and the SP agree on the importance of vaccination. It is very good that thousands of people in our country have not been hospitalized because of these vaccinations. We are very concerned about the regime whereby the validity of the QR code expires if people have not taken a booster. In fact, this means that the first 0.5 million people who have had the first two vaccinations will lose the QR pass this week, while the Minister's own figures and the justification show that these people also have 85% protection against hospitalisation. I ask Mrs Paulusma to what extent it is still proportionate to punish the group of people who have done the right thing and send them to the test street in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u141	The word "punishment" would not be my word. It is very easy to say that we are equivalent to European rules, because it is easier. That committee has been advised by science. She says you're better protected, less ill, less hospitalized. We now see it in young people who don't. The booster shot is effective. I repeat once again, but if science proves that we are better protected, therefore less pressure on care and less risk of long covid, then I think that is a legitimate principle to apply in the rule we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u142	But that's a false argument. Of course, science about this kind of thing isn't absolute. That the booster works, I'm sure. That's why you're protecting people better, I'm sure you are. But the question is whether the increase in protection, that increase from 85% to 97%, justifies the whole group, which now has 0.5 million people but in the coming months... This is about people who were last vaccinated in April last year. In the coming months, this group will increase from 0.5 million to many millions. Those are people who have all had two vaccines and haven't had a booster. That's gonna be a really big group. How long and with what justification do you want to say to that group that, although according to the figures of the Ministry itself 85% have protection against hospitalization, we still take away their QR code, which means they no longer have free access to the catering industry and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u143	I hope people are still gonna get that shot because you see what it does. I certainly do not underestimate the percentage of 10. That's a lot. I said earlier in my speech that it was a struggle for me, too, every week that we are standing here for a corona debate and not talking about the long term, but having this debate with each other. You asked the Minister quite rightly and I am very curious to hear his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u144	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u145	Let's talk about the rise. Of the importance of boosters and the importance of vaccination, you don't have to convince me. I am concerned with the limited profit in risk reduction.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On an individual level, that is negligible for a lot of people. If you're under 50, you've already had a very small chance of being hospitalized. With two vaccinations in your pocket, that chance is much smaller. And with Omikron, a variant that leads to fewer hospitalizations, the chances of you ending up in the hospital are even smaller. On an individual scale, you cannot say to someone who is at the gate of a café, with good decency, that he should be denied entry with two vaccinations in his pocket. I'm just missing the argument underneath. I also think that D66, before it passes into such far-reaching legislation, should have some damn good arguments to point people at the door for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u146	Finally, Mrs Paulusma. Then I'll give someone else the floor. I hear a lot of repetition, every time in the questions, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u147	Mr. Hijink and I share the importance of vaccinations. You're right to say less hospitalizations. That is also due to two vaccinations and a booster shot. However, I will continue to mention the struggle I mentioned to Mr Hijink. And I'm very curious about the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u148	Mr Omtzigt, then Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Van Meijeren. I also call on these colleagues to ask a new question, including in the case of the second or third interruptions. I often hear three same questions. But you're not gonna do that, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u149	I'm gonna try, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Paulma has just said that the countries that have now relaxed have also taken much more stringent measures. Can I know what stricter measures Denmark and Ireland have taken in the last month, so that they can now relax?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u150	I'm very glad Mr. Ommzigt is always so sharp. I mentioned a number of countries with stricter measures, and I mentioned a number of countries with higher vaccination and booster rates, and Denmark is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u151	Denmark has a slightly higher vaccination rate than the Netherlands, Ireland a similar. But I mention these countries because Denmark closed the restaurants and pubs at midnight between mid-December and mid-January. Ireland closed them at 8:00 p.m. There's a late version of midnight. You know this: a different drinking behaviour; both countries can do some of that. In Denmark, you couldn't get together with 50 people at once. Neither country closed hairdressers nor closed entire categories of shops. I'm just trying to point out that these countries are seeing, in your view, the same sharp increase in corona contamination as we are seeing here. I am therefore curious: what more stringent measures have they taken in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u152	I think I was just explaining this, but I am very pleased that Mr Omtzigt is now naming all these different rules and measures in the different countries. This also indicates the enormous struggle that each country has had over the past two years. Is that struggle always... Mrs Westerveld asked about that. We've been under enormous pressure of time, have we had enough time to judge that correctly? We may be able to think differently about that, but what you say also shows that it has robbed us. Perhaps we should have prepared ourselves better for that, as Mrs Van Esch has often advocated here. But it has, of course, totally robbed us and everyone has tried to do something about this with a lot of good intentions. Not to interfere with more measures that affect society, but to ensure that as few people as possible became ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u153	Whether as few people as possible have gotten sick here, I'd like to talk about that another time. We were completely surprised two years ago, but we were no longer surprised in December. I refer to these two countries, because Mrs Paulusma said earlier that these countries had more stringent measures. They have not had stricter measures in the last month. No way, in any way. Denmark and Ireland have made conscious choices. I am not saying that we should do that, but I was just surprised by Mrs Paulusma's remark, which said: if we are going to relax, then we must be sure that we are going to keep it up. Denmark has chosen exactly the opposite method. Denmark has said that at a time when we can relax, we are relaxing, but we are also telling our people that there can be another wave. Then it may be annoying, but we are not going to sing songs of: we are forever off the masks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u154	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u155	The Danish Government was more serious about this than the Dutch Government, let me just say. The question is: is Mrs Paulusma prepared to follow the same strategy and, at the moment that can be done here, to relax a number of measures? Is it prepared to do so, without making the mistake again, and she is quite right to say that we are never going to take measures again, because we do not want to do so? Is Mrs Paulusma willing to relax or does she not want to relax until she is sure, absolutely 100%, that the whole corona pandemic has ended?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u156	I hear Mr. Ommzigt say a lot of things. We share the frustration about that song. Well, I guess I'd better give him that. Denmark has reversed everything a number of times. They went back into a lockdown and then opened up again. I really want to do everything I can with this Chamber to prevent that. And no, we're not gonna wait until Corona's over. Freedom is also about responsibility and about the space we can take together. It's just that we're still too excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u157	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u158	Denmark didn't go into a lockdown. At noon you close your cafés and restaurants... I don't know which Danes have called that a lockdown, but even Danes can live very well with that. It is a beautiful country, by the way; I would advise you to live in Copenhagen. I had a lot of fun there. Really, there hasn't been a lockdown there. So they didn't go all the way back. They've done their best to relax. They canceled the corona admission ticket in September. They saw the increase and introduced it again in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u159	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u160	They introduced a number of restrictions back then. Do you share the view that Denmark has simply consistently assessed in a reasonable way what they consider important in terms of fundamental rights? Are we prepared to do the same kind of evaluations? It is right that you should say: we have learned and we do not want to make the mistake of saying that there will never be any action again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u161	Before I say that I agree with Mr Omtzigt and that it will be another whole thing... What Denmark has done was careful, regardless of the word 'lockdown'. I think that's a lesson that we... I'm not saying that. I'm saying that before it's in a movie again, we didn't do it carefully, but I think we can learn things from Denmark. That's how we can learn things from other countries. I don't want to live there, but it would be nice if we could get to the stage they're in. But again, I find that too exciting now, because the area is still too gray. I didn't mean to say anything about the minister when I said "the area."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u162	Thank you. I'm going to see Mrs. Van Esch. Then Mr Van Meijeren and then Mrs Westerveld. Would you like to go through this point, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u163	Yes, because something Denmark has done differently than the Netherlands is committed to more tests. Unfortunately, we have not been able to do so lately. This is partly due to the fact that a number of parties in this Chamber merely focused on the introduction of a 2G ticket. I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma if she agrees with me that it is wise that we should step away from that, that we should also focus on much more tests in the Netherlands and that we should at least have a good test capacity instead of continuing with the focus on 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u164	Mrs Westerveld, we've always looked at the combination of things. Could fine-meshed tests have been better? Yes. I agree. I expect this Minister to make a number of proposals for this in his long-term strategy. It's like the chain approach, which I just mentioned, and are pandemically prepared. This includes accessible testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u165	Of course, that's not entirely true. The D66 group was always very much in favour of introducing 2G. Even before the bill was sent to our Chamber, the D66 Group said: we agree. My question is: do we have a relationship with the law we are discussing today? Do Mrs Paulusma agree with me that we should move away as soon as possible from far-reaching measures that violate our freedom of movement and which in practice prove to be disproportionate, that we must, of course, prepare ourselves for a situation in which the virus can emerge again and that testing is a much better strategy. Does she agree with me that we should go that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u166	It is a pity that Mrs Westerveld is also stuck in 2G. That has never been the goal in itself for us. I think that everyone in this crisis had a subject that they might have run a little faster on. But it has always been the mix of measures for us. It's true what you just said about something else: I don't have a glass ball. I'm looking for a mix that we can and can stay open with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u167	Maybe that's what I'm looking at: I'm curious to see what D66 is like against 3G, which goal is D66 when it comes to 3G. Fortunately, we have put 2G on the long track and perhaps it is: a postponement comes. But 3G is still there. We, too, do not see much point in this. We know that its protection is no longer so good and that it offers false safety. We know it doesn't solve the problem of the infections. So I'm curious how D66 looks at 3G.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u168	We are going to have the debate on this, so the question is not really within the order of this debate. Perhaps very briefly, Mrs. Paulusma?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u169	I am not saying this in order not to do justice to Mrs Van Esch's question, because I appreciate her question. Also this, 3G, is not an end in itself. If we don't need measures to open up, I'm really the first. But I would like, also for society, a form of assurance that we remain open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u170	It is indeed in the law, so I am not referring to a subject that does not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u171	Correction: it's in the law. It was actually a request not to repeat last week's debate. That's what I should have said. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u172	I'm not going to talk about prevention. I promise. I did that last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u173	Too bad. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u174	Too bad, huh? But I'm sticking to that. I find it special to keep something in the toolbox that we know is not effective, that it may lead to vaccination urge and that it leads to division in society. We even have scientific research that shows that 3G isn't going to help us either. So I will stick to the same question: why should we stick to a measure that we already know is not working?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u175	Well, then I'm a little surprised. Corona ambushs us every time. There's a different variant every time. That is why we must also be critical and have a very good debate about what works and what doesn't. In the meantime, the toolbox has taken a different shape and doesn't even fit in this building anymore, and we keep forgetting ourselves there. Every time we use a measure from the coffin because it has been scientifically proven that it works in a variant or because the OMT, which fortunately we are going to expand with a lot of other people, who advises measure, we are still in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u176	Mrs Van Esch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u177	That's right. But we are also in the process of taking measures that are in the toolbox that we decide here with each other that they do not work, that they are disproportionate and that they lead to division into society. Then we have a move to just say: it's no use, so let's stop. I don't see the target of 3G anymore. We've never seen the target. You could still say that the target was once lower infections. Well, that target is completely gone. So I'm actually going to keep asking the same question. I'm gonna ask him one more time and I'm gonna stop for real. I don't know what the purpose of D66 would be to keep 3G.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u178	The risk is that I'm gonna give the same answers over and over again. 3G is not an end in itself. We want society to remain open, that schools remain open, that people can visit their parents in the nursing home, that the cultural sector remains open and that entrepreneurs can continue their life's work. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u179	Thank you. Mr Van Meijeren of Forum for Democracy and then Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u180	Mrs Paulusma said earlier in this debate that she strongly supports preventive measures. I mentioned in my speech that the average BMI of all corona patients is on ic 30. So those are people who are seriously overweight. If you think that preventive measures should be used, then it is very obvious to encourage sports and certainly not to make it more difficult. May I assume that with D66 Mrs Paulusma will at least support my amendment to abolish the QR code for gyms?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u181	Look, measures. That's what I just said. We don't take measures to interfere with society. That's what we do to keep the number of infections as low as possible. I agree with you that lifestyle, how you are raised, how you grow up and what school you go to has a very big effect on your health. Should we bet on that? Yeah, all of them. And do we have to do that now? Oh, yeah. But there are no measures to bully people. They're also here to make sure we stay healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u182	I understand. Staying healthy is one of the things you do by exercising. Hence my question whether Mrs Paulusma will support my amendment to make gyms accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u183	My colleague Van der Laan has also made a plea here with the VVD spokesperson to regard sport as an essential sector. So we share the same observation that sports is very good. What we differ on is that there is an opinion, including from the scientific point of view, that says that measures help to ensure that the disease does not spread like that. It would be my preference not to start sports right away. So that's what we're sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u184	Finally, Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u185	Does Mrs. Paulusma have any idea how many infections occur in gyms?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u186	We are going to have a discussion here because the gentleman would very much like an answer to the question whether or not I support a motion. We think there are measures and we think there is something about prevention. Between those two things is a precarious balance. That is what we must debate in this Chamber, and we must make an effort to do so, but I am not going to give you the answer you very much hope for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u187	Then I'll give you the answer. There's no science that recommends stopping sports. These measures are not based on anything. There are no or hardly any contaminations in the gym, while sports reduce medical consumption. It prevents cardiovascular disease, prevents obesity. So that precisely a measure such as sports is made more difficult by D66, that it is made harder to go to the gym, cannot lead me to any conclusion other than that you are not interested in actual prevention at all and you do not want to make the Netherlands healthier at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u188	I'd like to distance myself from the statement that D66 says sports causes corona. It's about bringing people together in a room, which makes us infect each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u189	I hear Mrs Paulusma refer a number of times in the context of 3G and 2G to the fact that her party regards science and science-based policies as very important. I recognize myself in that. That's what our parties share. However, I ask myself the following question. Today, the director of the Mr. Hans van Mierlo Foundation, the scientific institute of your own party, said quite clearly that the Ctb should be abolished as soon as possible. How do you weigh this statement by the director of the scientific institute of your own party in the context of this scientific discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u190	I thought, "Wow, what a nice party we have!" So this is possible. You can just take the conversation critically with each other, even if you think you need social media for that. I thought, "Wow, that's great!" We are not always in agreement, as in this Chamber. That's why I'm a member of D66, because there may be a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u191	I think that is a very nice weighting in itself. It is indeed nice if there can be discussions within a party. But again, I think a scientific institute is very good at making a scientific weighting. Does that change Mrs Paulusma's position on 3G or 2G?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u192	Not on one tweet, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. We too were critical of the report and we also had many questions about what science shows. I think that's the gremium in which we need to discuss this with each other and not the social media account of the director of our scientific institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Tielen van de VVD, instead of Mr Van Wijngaarden. It's very nice that Mrs. Tielen was ready in time. She was busy with the survey. Go ahead, Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u194	Mr President, I hear it's an anticlimax for some, but I'm back. The closed preliminary talks that we held today with the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into natural gas extraction in Groningen are back on track. I would like to thank Mr Van Wijngaarden for observing it for me. Mr. Chairman. There we all are again! The R-value of the corona debate is beginning to significantly exceed that of the coronavirus. I think this is the third time in 14 days. On the one hand, I understand, because the dilemmas we all experience belong in the debate in this Chamber with this minister and each other. The VVD Group supports the extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which entered into force on 1 December and runs until 1 March. That's in four weeks. We want to move forward step by step and we see that these measures are still necessary. It's four weeks now, but we're probably gonna talk about it again in a couple of weeks. After all, prevention is better than cure and with a cool head, a warm heart and the hands out of the sleeves we try to make sure that the coronavirus loses its grip on our society. It seems to be, but when I look at today's contagion rates, I'm still shocked. Anyway, that's what we predicted. At least in last week's debate, the Minister announced these figures. We also see that it's not bad with the hospital admissions and the ICU recordings. This has also been discussed in a number of interrupting debates. But they're starting to catch up. That's why we have an insecure feeling and we don't say head-on: drop everything off, we open everything up again and we move on. We wait every week for updates of the scientific input to the models. On this basis, we make sensible decisions that can be explained to the people in the Netherlands. On the one hand, there are people in the Netherlands who say: it cannot be over for me soon enough. On the other hand, there are also people in the Netherlands who still have a bit of fear of the virus, because they have experience with it, because they have residual symptoms or because they suffer from it in their immediate vicinity, for example as a care worker. My question to the Minister is in particular: how do we explain this well to the people in the country and how do we ensure that the measures are unambiguous and almost predictable, so that we can move forward step by step? Last Wednesday I asked the Minister in the debate whether Minister Dijkgraaf would like to talk to the associations. My question is whether that has already happened. In any case, I have seen that the Minister of Justice and Security's commitment to carnival has been followed. But there we are a bit... Carnival takes place rather than this temporary law expires, so a little pressure. Mr President, it is only together that we learn to live with this virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u195	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I'm suspending for an hour, including dinner break. We'll meet back here at 8:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u196	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the Adoption Act, fourth extension of temporary measures covid-19. We ended up on the first term on the cabinet side. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport for his first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get some order in my papers. As you know, we have seen a marked change in the picture of the pandemic in recent times. We're seeing a virus variant that's spreading incredibly fast. This also leads to an enormous number of infections in the past period and a continuing increase, including in recent days. In the meantime, we are used to numbers as mentioned earlier, of 80,000 and more per day, once even with an outlier of 100,000 per day. That was also due to continued reports of contagion. We can also see that this variant is happy, I can say that it is less sickening, greatly helped by the accumulated immunity, by recent infection or by previous vaccination and booster injection. In that setting, therefore, there is an excellent time for thinking about a long-term policy. I will inform the Chamber about this at the end of the week and I will come back to that later. Mrs Westerveld referred to a glass ball at the beginning. No one has a glass ball, but of course we can try to think a bit ahead about what contours we are actually going to talk about. That is what the Academy and the WRR have done before, and that has also happened abroad. Originally, a number of different scenarios were taken into account. One scenario, a very favorable scenario, is that the virus completely extinguishes. Unfortunately, after two years, we have to note that this is not happening and that the chances of that happening in the coming period are virtually nil. Another scenario is that we continue to experience peaks and declines, with a more or less sickening virus. Another scenario, right at the end, is what is called "a continuous struggle." That is almost what we have had for a long time in the last two years. The longer the situation takes as it now looks, with a rapidly spreading variant but with less disease, the more likely we will end up in a scenario in which we are dealing with a variant with a high respiratory infection, a cold virus that is not very sick for most people. It's too early to say that it's going to be certain, but the longer this period lasts, the more likely you'll eventually get out of it. So I say this with great caution, because what are the chances of a new variant coming from somewhere that is seriously sickening and against which the built-up immunity protects much less? That opportunity is still real, but is gradually decreasing. So you have to prepare for those opportunities, but you also have to dare to think carefully ahead: and what if we are dealing with another situation later? In this respect, I would like to return to Mrs Westerveld's remarks and Karl Popper's comments. Another well-known statement in Karl Popper's book is about conjectures and refutations, beautifully described with theories and hypotheses based on all the knowledge you have at a certain time and the testability, but also the probability that it will be rejected at a later date. On the basis of the current data, therefore, we are careful to see a certain direction, but the chances of it being rejected are real. So in that respect, we are looking very much at the situation now, and at the predictability now. We are also looking in all the settings at the proportionality of measures; this was already reflected in the debate last time. So we are also looking at the possibility of abolishing things again, and at free choices. I have already mentioned before that for me the free choice is also explicitly the free choice to decide for yourself whether you are going to be vaccinated and whether you are getting a booster etc. Only choices at certain times can have consequences at a certain stage. But they're free choices. Let us then begin with the temporary law and the questions that have been asked about it. We are talking here about the bill for the fourth extension of the Twm. This concerns the period from 1 December last year to 1 March this year. Unfortunately, due to the current epidemiological situation, it is still necessary to have a legal basis for action. That foundation offers the Twm. Without this Twm it is not possible to take the measures contained in the ministerial regime, such as limiting group size, maintaining regulations for...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u198	I can see that Mrs Agema wants to interrupt, but I would like you to continue with your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u199	Yeah? Okay. The measures are thus, for example, the retention of guidelines for 1.5 metres away and/or the use of a corona pass. Prior to the adoption of the fourth extension decision, the OMT was asked for its opinion. At the time, the OMT recommended keeping the possibility open to take measures, due to the epidemiological uncertainties and the possible resulting hospitalisations. The epidemiological situation in which we found ourselves was also one of a possible increasing number of infections. Prior to the adoption of the fourth extension decision, an opinion was also requested from the Advisory Section of the Council of State. This section agreed with the Government's view that a fourth extension was justified. Finally, on the content of that fourth extension. In accordance with the undertaking given to Mrs Bikker, the reasons for the need for this provision have been identified in each article, partly supported by the OMT opinion. In doing so, it was chosen to abolish a single basis, namely the former basis for rules on the use of publicly available facilities, a now repealed Article 58j (1) (c). That provision had never been used. So much for my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u200	The Minister stressed that he was in favour of voluntary vaccination. Of course, the entire House of Representatives wants that, but he also said that it was not free of consequences. Take those corona tickets, which are also in this law and are therefore renewed by this law. People who aren't gonna make it to the third prick haven't done so far. more than 6 million people haven't been able to access cafes, restaurants, outdoor terraces, amusement parks, playgrounds, saunas, wellness, solar studios, recreational transport, tour boats, party buses, parties, performances, performances, flow events, fairs, fairs, fairs, congresses, professional sports, indoor sports, gyms, cultural places, cinemas, theatres, concert halls, music lessons, painting lessons and rehearsals for singing, dance and theatres. Those are the obstacles, so the things you won't have any more access to if you're among the more than 6 million people who aren't getting a booster at the moment. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u201	What Mrs Agema said at the beginning was: no more access. And at the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u202	No, I said no unobstructed access. We used to go to the cafe unobstructed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u203	People can still go to the cafe. They then only choose a different route, namely through a test in the period of 24 hours before that. Those possibilities are in the current use of the corona pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u204	But the Minister did not understand my question. I was talking about "unobstructed access" like we used to when there was no corona. So I was talking about the normal situation in this country, where you can just go to a café, just go to a restaurant and all just use these things and also non-essential shops, whatever that may be; I think every store is essential, otherwise it didn't exist. All these things, games locations, casinos, sports competitions, fairs and congresses: nowhere can you get unobstructed access. This is already the case for a whole group of people, but from Friday onwards 540,000 people will be added whose corona admissions will be cancelled. More than 6 million Dutch did not reach the booster. They have made the choice not to reach the booster. How does the Minister intend to ensure that all these people no longer have unobstructed access to cafes, restaurants, fairs, you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u205	I think that we will be discussing this a number of times in the further discussion. At the moment we are dealing with an unprecedented number of infections, an unprecedented increase in numbers. This number will increase much further in the coming period. We are already at that point, but we have recently relaxed very quickly in two tempi. At the same time, this will also give rise to considerable pressure on care. The number of patients we had in the past period was still low, but let's take for example the hospital intake in numbers of patients per day. That was 100 a day, but we can see it's been over 250 in the last 24 hours. This follows the measures quite briefly. Some Members of your Chamber have also indicated that we really need to take it into account that it is going up. The words I have already used have also been repeated, namely that it is a 'thought-out risk'. In that setting, it makes no sense to continue to adhere to certain measures. One of them is the use of the corona pass. That's what we're doing with 3G right now. That 3G basically gives everyone the opportunity to access wherever they want and where the ticket is requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u206	The Minister may be throwing numbers at us and trying to scare us all, but how does he come up with the claim that the corona tickets work to reduce the number of infections? He went so far down on this point last week with that 15%. At that time, Mr Hijink picked out all of this neatly. There is hardly any benefit to be expected from the corona tickets. My question was: how is he going to do that? How is he going to ensure that the 6 million people who didn't get the booster shot, those 540,000 people whose corona ticket expires on Friday, no longer have unobstructed access to cafes, restaurants, museums, fairs, fairs, fairs and fairs in a free country like the Netherlands? How's he gonna do that? Then the second. Let's say the minister's gonna say again, yes, I'm gonna take care of that with those corona tickets. Is he familiar with the Christmas party in Malaga where 173 intensive care nurses and doctors were present? They were all tested and all had three vaccinations. So it was a combination of 2G and 1G. Of the 173, 70 were infected there. What security does corona permit provide when 40% of those present are infected?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u207	As already indicated, there are two options for every Dutchman who wants to do so. The first option is to get a boost vaccination. Today you can walk in many places in the Netherlands directly, without an appointment, to get them. The capacity is spacious. The second option is to get a test certificate. For this there are more than 900 locations in the Netherlands where you can go directly. Those are the two options. As for an incident in Malaga, I'm not familiar with it. I don't know the details. I can only say that there is no absolute protection from another test or another vaccination. Absolute protection does not exist in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u208	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u209	I do not know about the Minister's memory, but he replied to me today or yesterday in reply to Parliamentary questions: yes, I am familiar with the situation in Malaga. That is what the Minister really replied to the questions put by the House. So that's not very strong, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u210	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u211	I think that the whole of the Netherlands, perhaps not the whole of the Netherlands, is eagerly looking forward to the moment when the new minister will bring us all together again instead of keeping us apart. We're looking forward to him bringing us back together. We're at an ideological crossroads. We see that the United Kingdom, Denmark and Finland are all moving towards exit. They're going back to normal. It's not like people who don't get a booster can't even go to the cafe anymore. You can also see countries throwing the beech into it, such as Germany, Austria and Australia. I would like to ask the question on behalf of the Netherlands when this minister, who is to give us the hope that we will one day simply together in the pub, in the restaurant or anywhere else, will bring us back together again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u212	Mrs Agema's questions cover almost all the aspects that have been asked before and which I have here. So I'm sure I'll come back to that. What Mrs Agema is actually asking is when we can get rid of all the measures. When can we get back to the situation as we knew it until 2017? I've just been trying to sketch something with reference to the glass ball. But can I say it exactly? No, I can't. Mrs. Agema can't do that either. No one here can. Let me just say that I share with you that the sooner we can, the better it will be for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u213	There's a group of over half a million people the minister himself says they're gonna lose their QR code this week. It's about vaccinated people. They've received two vaccinations. The Minister writes in his own reply that these people are still well protected from serious diseases and deaths. The research has also been done at the time of the delta variant, so also at the time of a variant which we can now assume has resulted in more hospitalizations. The Minister replied that the people who had the primary vaccination still have 85% protection against serious illness and hospitalisation. With these figures in mind, 85%, which, according to the Minister, provides adequate protection against hospitalisations, I wonder why he is going to treat this group as being unvaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u214	Mr. Chairman. These are questions I've already had. I'm trying to answer them neatly in order. I want to do it a different way every time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u215	Yeah, I notice... Maybe I'll go help the minister. The MPs have asked a lot of questions. We are still at the introduction and I see that the questions that have been asked before are now being repeated. Let us also give the Minister a chance to answer the questions that have been asked, unless it concerns the introduction that the Minister has just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u216	I don't forget your question, but I can go through a lot of leaves here and...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u217	Then Mr Hijink will have the floor immediately afterwards and then Mr Van Baarle. Let's answer the minister some more questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u218	Then I will be the first to answer Mrs Westerveld's question. That question was about the fact that it is not really appropriate to explain that we are only now dealing with this extension, that temporary law, when it entered into force on 1 December. That actually calls for an amendment to restore the democratic process, whereby the House of Representatives and the First Chamber must approve the extension in advance. That amendment concerns the strengthening of parliamentary decision-making and regulates an important issue. I very much understand the need to redesign this decision-making process in such a way that Parliament is involved in the front. First of all, I have already done so, even at your request, by sending the OMT opinions earlier, before the debate and so on. If you do this differently, you can always ask yourself whether you should also ask for advice from the Council of State. As far as I'm concerned, that's not necessary. When it comes to Parliament's powers, it is primarily up to the author of the amendment and then to the Chamber to take a position on it. I shall come back to that when the amendment is adopted. Mrs Bikker asked for temporaryity and proportionality and indicated that this was important. She also named the grey area, which later came back several times. Mrs Paulusma made a comment about this too, and I share it. She also stated that the Council of State had already delivered its opinion in November and asked how the Minister saw the accuracy of that opinion. The legislator provides that the Division shall be consulted on the measures in force for the adoption of a Royal Decree extending the Twm. The latter opinion was requested on 1 November and delivered on 10 November. The Section agreed with the Government's view that a fourth extension to 1 March was justified. Mrs van der Plas asked about the proportionality of the measures and how long we will continue to do so. I already indicated that the epidemiological situation is still serious when you look at the number of infections. Fortunately, many fewer people are becoming ill enough to need hospitalization. But we are still relatively short in the situation of this very sharp increase, partly because of the relaxation that we have put in place. As you know, RIVM, with all the uncertainties that exist in such a model, is still predicting: take into account the possibility that the numbers will rise sharply. That is also the situation we see in some of the countries around us. This means that measures are still needed and that we must, of course, look at what the near future will bring, as I mentioned in my introduction. The prospects are hopeful with an omikron and also on the basis of images from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u219	I would just like to see if the Minister can indicate whether he has specific themes or a particular order. I have now asked Mr Hijink and Mr Van Baarle to sit down... it is getting a little confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u220	These are all questions about the temporary law. This debate dealt with two issues: the temporary law and...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u221	Sure, but do you have an order per MP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u222	No, by subject. This is the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u223	It's getting complicated. Mrs. Van der Plas. Mr Hijink's questions will then be answered, I think, so I will give Mr Hijink the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u224	It is really about this issue, which the Minister is now addressing. I wonder if we keep looking at whether there are more infections or the number of people in the hospital. There are just new figures from NICE and RIVM that one in four people who have been hospitalized has not been taken with covid, but by a different type of injury. This means that the 1,137 people who are called on the coronadashboard didn't get all 1,137 by covid in the hospital, but that's 795. 342 people lie down with something else and probably wouldn't have gone into the hospital if they hadn't broken their leg or had any other condition. My question, therefore, is what I said at the very beginning: do we look at the rise in infected people in the hospital, which is a very relative concept? Or do we look at the exact number of people in the hospital and make a cut there: if it's so much, then we're going to do something, it shouldn't be more than that much? If we don't, it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u225	We are looking, as we have done in the past, at accessibility of care, for people with covid, but also for others. If we look at the situation in our neighbouring countries that preceded us, which has been referred to in the debate, then the number of people entering the hospital after some time, in high numbers of infections, is very substantial; twice as high as in the Netherlands in the current situation or even higher. If we got that here, it would really lead to a serious blockage of care and access for others. In the current situation we are looking at: what are the infections doing and what does that mean in the next period for the number of hospitalisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u226	But over the past few months, I have heard the OMT scream very often: looking at how things are abroad, it may be that there are thousands of people in the hospital around that time. I've heard numbers, in August or September, that it could be 10,000 or 16,000, but that never made it. So I find it complicated, to put it mildly, to always base it on how it can be. I'd rather see a hard number. Is the Minister at least prepared to think about that? This is a hard number that the hospitals can handle from people who enter the hospital by covid, not with covid. When we approach that moment, it's time for action. Because we can say now: if it goes on like this, 20,000 people will enter the hospital. But those numbers were never made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u227	I'd love to, but I'm afraid that dynamic doesn't work that way. At the moment you intervene, we have done that at the very beginning of the first wave for a while, based purely on the occupation of hospitals, you are actually a few weeks late. You need to intervene a few weeks before that. Today's infections translate into hospitalizations in a week's time and the hospital occupation of even later. If we were purely to control certain limit values and then intervene, then it would go up much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u228	Finally. I have the feeling that the OMT will get some kind of pass to keep doing this forever, because then you can always throw numbers around. I get that feeling. There's still nothing concrete. Then you can always say: it may be that there will be 3,000, 4,000, 10,000, 15,000 and we must continue. We are sitting in the Chamber like this: you do not want to be responsible and then we agree. But you can't do that, can you? You must have some kind of harsh measure or whatever? 'Cause again, this sounds like a pass to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u229	Let us all assume that the OMT, the RIVM and modellers are not engaged in freely scattering numbers, but are trying to help us define policies that are proportionate but also safe, and that, for example, in the future, people will still have access to care. In some places abroad we have seen the situation, which I do not need to outline, because you still have the images on the visor like me. Of course, there's uncertainty. You have also seen in the past period that we have consciously chosen to go beyond the OMT advice, despite the figures. We debated this last week. I've called that a deliberate risk. I have indicated that there were specific factors that we included here, such as youth, the need for sport, art and culture and other factors. So freely scatter: no. But is there any uncertainty in it? Yeah, it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u230	Look, I never said the OMT's freely scattering numbers. The Minister didn't hear me say that at all. I only note that in the past, at least from the moment I am in the Chamber, numbers have been mentioned and we have never reached those numbers. In fact, these numbers now turn out to be a lot less with retroactive effect, because a lot of people with another condition get a stick in the nose, just to say it disrespectfully, and then lie in the hospital as a covid patient in the covid department. So yes, the pressure on the care is just there. Second. I don't think it's entirely up to you to say that you have all these images on the retina. That evokes some kind of emotional reaction, like: you know that too; you have seen that too, haven't you? Yeah, but I've also seen the suicide rates. I also have people in my environment; I'm sure everyone here in the area has seen them who have fallen into depression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u231	And your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u232	It was more of an observation. I'm not saying it's free throwing numbers. Once again, I would like to consider a little tighter on the numbers, rather than always saying: it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u233	I do not know whether the term'string on numbers' is the right one here, but I fully understand what Mrs van der Plas means, namely whether we are prepared to take more risk. The answer is yes. We have already indicated in the previous debate that we are doing so. I have referred to this as a well-considered risk, with other factors being explicitly taken into account. This fits in with the very broad desire to open them quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u234	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u235	I'll stick to the same order as the one I just had, if you'll allow me, otherwise I'll have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u236	Yes. And then you answer the questions per MP. Then the MP will know when his question is answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u237	I call it MP. We were still under the temporary law. Mrs Bikker's question was: at what point can we go back to the Public Health Act? I indicated that your Chamber was informed in the stand-of-business letter of 14 December of three options for a legal form. The first option was to continue the current procedure of quarterly extensions. The second option was to permanently include a limited number of temporary provisions from the Twm covid-19 in the Wpg. A third option was to permanently include all temporary provisions from the Twm covid-19 in the Wpg. The cabinet chooses from these three options first of all for the first option: for the time being extend the Twm. That's ahead of us. In view of the epidemiological situation and the whimsy of the virus, the cabinet chooses to do so because it emphasises the temporaryity of the Twm. Then Mrs Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van der Staaij had the following questions. Does the Minister agree that the emergency law should be repealed when the emergency situation is over? Will the Minister confirm that the extension should not be based on whether the situation further justifies the basis for taking the measures? The Twm can only be renewed if it is necessary and proportionate to combat the epidemic or to avert a direct threat. I can therefore confirm that the Twm cannot be maintained if the necessity is no longer present. Mr Van der Staaij asked for a look at the way things are going. As I mentioned in my introduction, it is difficult to predict exactly how long the Twm is still needed. On the basis of the current legal framework, every three months, as you know, will be reviewed in conjunction with Parliament as to whether it is still necessary. We see a situation in some neighbouring countries where it is slowly moving towards such a more favourable picture, as I outlined at the beginning, but it is still too early to conclude that it will remain so in the next longer period. I hope so with you, but I don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u238	I understand what the Minister is saying. With this approach, however, do we not run the risk that you always say: we do not yet know how the virus develops? Are we not aware of this risk when, as has been said, we have to learn to live with the virus, which may reappear at different times in different variants? When can the situation arise, which the Minister says: under these circumstances, I wouldn't want to take care of it myself in order to extend the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u239	I will go into this without mentioning exactly a time. This is really an issue that will also be discussed in a future discussion and which we will learn a great deal about in the coming weeks. But let us outline a hypothetical situation somewhere in the future. Then I don't call it a time. That would be at the time when we would come to a situation where infections actually, in the vast majority, only lead to mild complaints, such as upper respiratory complaints, a cold, and the number of people who become so ill that they need care is simply very limited. The steady flare-up of the influenza that we have known for years and years always leads to pressure and considerable numbers of people getting sick in Q1 of each year, but it is relatively possible to do that number well and care is also taken into account. If we get into such a situation, you won't need such a law, and you may not need other measures. In the coming period, the number of infections will increase even further. In any case, it is real to expect that it does not stop at 80,000 but that it can go above 100,000 and above on more days. Then the number of patients who need help will also increase, with the general practitioners, neighbourhood care and hospitals. We hope, therefore, that we dared to take these risks too, and that all of this remains within acceptable limits, so that you do not have to seriously scale down critically planned care, for example. If that happens and you see a drop in infections at some point, that's a prediction for what's going to happen in the care after that. Then we'll have another conversation. That is what we have to do together and then we have to ask each other the question: where exactly do we steer and what do we weigh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u240	For my understanding: in fact, the Minister says that the most important point for him is that there is no longer an unacceptable burden of care arising from the contamination of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u241	What Mr Van der Staaij and I are absolutely equal in is that on the one hand we want us to return to an open society as soon as possible but at the same time we think that if people get seriously ill, there is direct access for them, which is a great social asset in the Netherlands, but we also find something about the extent to which people can fall out, in this case due to contamination, and the impact it may have on the continuity of our society. This also affects Mrs Westerveld's question when I expect us to be able to move away from measures. I've already given something about that to the whole picture. The same goes, of course, for all the measures we have left. In doing so, we are trying to look, together with you, at what measures offer the most freedom in relation to their effectiveness, because you might be able to keep them up the longest. So you might be able to hold on to those measures for the longest time. Mrs Simons says that the place is being thrown open as soon as there is a little room in the eyes of the cabinet and that it closes up again in the event of contagion; it is jojoen. There's euphoria, but it gets smashed over and over again. She asked, "How is that possible?" After two years, we know the virus is very erratic. I'm trying to sketch an image. That's cautiously optimistic; you can call it that, but it's really very early; I'm going to make a big comment about it that maybe we're moving towards a variant where that yo-yo gets to us a lot less. As I said, it is really too early to say definitively that it is. In the current situation, in the past period, it has proved necessary to take significant measures on a regular basis, but these must, as indicated, be proportionate. Therefore, they should not apply longer than necessary. That is also absolutely a must for the maintenance of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u242	The Council of State says it's a good idea to extend the law. The Minister has just stressed this. But the same Council of State says that this is precisely the yo-yo policy. It's getting harder and harder to explain to people: you can open your business now, you may have to close it again in two weeks, and you'll hear a day before you can open your business again the next day. That was what I was referring to. We all know the virus is erratic. That seems to me to be the reason why, fortunately, the Minister also thinks that we should keep this battle to ourselves and say: we are not yet there; there are still many things that can happen and we really need to take that into account. In my contribution, I referred in particular to that piece of support, which the Council of State also says you should consider seriously when looking at a long-term strategy. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u243	I couldn't agree more. That will therefore also be an issue in the long-term strategy. How do we deal with it in the long run? Last time, for example, a comparison was made, I believe by Mrs Paulusma, but I am not quite sure anymore, so correct me; I see Mrs Paulusma nodding with Belgium, as it is dealt with by sector. This is done in pictograms, with a much clearer predictability. These are exactly the things we need to look for, explaining why action is needed at some point. We now see too much discussion in this: what is the difference between a closing time of 9 p.m. versus a 10 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u244	It is quite difficult to debate, because we are, of course, very much in agreement. That does require me to repeat and ask again, in the previous Corona debate, I have done the same thing about how you rhyme this science with, for example, keeping schools open, without necessarily taking any additional measures. You can say that we accept the risk and that, with that risk in mind, we are still taking these steps, but we have also talked about lung covid today, for example. People who do not end up on ice can still be affected. With understanding that it is just as difficult for the Minister to make a balanced assessment, I would like to hear some more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u245	I would therefore like to refer to the debate, the conversation we had last time. It's a risk assessment. You referred to young people last time. The risk of pulmonary covid in case of infection is really present in them. At the same time, we know that the measures we have had in the past period also have a huge impact on young people in other ways, in terms of psychological complaints, feelings of loneliness, retardation in education, etc. We felt that in the present situation it was really wise to give a strong preference to the physical opening up of education in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u246	Finally, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u247	Yeah, last question. I'll leave the education for a while. What will this minister say to catering entrepreneurs or others, artists, everyone in the arts sector, anyone affected by a closure of his establishment, only in the evening or at certain times, or at least by limiting the work that he or she can do, if we all agree that we are entering an endemic phase? What do you say to those people when, in a few weeks' time, you may have to go back to action on the basis of the risks that have been taken so carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u248	I also heard the word "endemic" a few times in the debate. I think it is wise to all note that we are not in an endemic situation right now; far from it, really far from it. By "endemic situation," I mean a stable situation, with a stable number of infections over time, regardless of the level. That is absolutely not the case now. We hope that we will get out of there at some point and that it will be on a very low level, but we are not there now. At the setting as just outlined, with high numbers of infections on the one hand, which are also growing strongly, and now also an increase in the number of people who are getting sick of it, and on the other hand the right wish to open as soon as possible, you have to have a discussion with all parties about what is possible, but then we have really taken great steps already. That's a deliberate risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u249	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u250	Then there was a question from Mr Van Haga about the Public Health Act and about an evaluation. I have already said that I would like to repeat once again that it is absolutely not my intention or my predecessor's intention to enforce the Temporary Law measures for longer than necessary. Until then, the current legal framework, once again every three months, will be used in conjunction with Parliament. You are therefore always involved in this by means of the approval procedure. At the same time, an evaluation is under way. Among other things, the Security Research Council is engaged in a comprehensive evaluation of the whole Corona approach over the past two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u251	Of course, this is a difficult one. The investigation of the Research Council on Security is still ongoing, but there will be a parliamentary inquiry later. If we continue to do this, the Public Health Act could take more than a year, perhaps a year and a half. That is certainly not what I meant when I tabled this motion: we are going to wait for two and a half years, quietly, before we start recording the measures we now have in a more democratic and more controllable way in the Wpg. If the Minister is going to take the research of the OVV, but perhaps also the research that Parliament is going to do, as a measure, then I think we do have a problem. I would say that there should also be a kind of own assessment from the Ministry of Justice of how the law has now been used and how it should be better in future, and that we should not wait so long for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u252	As I just said, there were actually three options. I named all three of them. It was now preferable to bring this back every three months in a debate and not to adapt the Wpg, either by part of all covid-related measures or by abolishing everything now. But that's a completely different discussion. Of the latter, I have indicated that I do not think it is sensible at the moment on the basis of the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u253	That's not my point. This is what I'm talking about. When we dealt with the emergency law in October 2020, I tabled a motion, which was also adopted, to bring about a structural adjustment of the Wpg which will organise the fight against the virus in a better way than in this emergency law. The Minister says we have to extend it now. That's not what this is about. My question is when can we expect an evaluation from the Ministry itself of how to do this in a different way? Can the Minister promise that we will not wait for all the investigations of the OVV and perhaps also the parliamentary survey that is to follow before we talk about the Wpg in Parliament? That could take way too long, and we shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u254	To the exact time I'd like to come back. For now, we are discussing the temporary law here and I would point out that there are a number of evaluations under way. If this should lead to an amendment of the Public Health Act, we will discuss it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u255	Can the Minister indicate when he'll return to this approximately? I think it's okay to do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u256	Yes, I'd like to do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u257	Written? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u258	Yeah, okay. Then I come to a question by Mr Omtzigt about a test on fundamental rights. Mr Van Haga also referred to the restriction of fundamental rights and asked if I could indicate the serious reasons for maintaining anti-fundamental rights measures. There is no doubt that the temporary law has taken and continues to take far-reaching measures. We have relaxed them, but the impact is still substantial for some people, for many people. That is what we are doing in order to protect public health, also a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution. This means that we have to deal with it extremely carefully. The Twm sets the frames. They have therefore been explicitly appointed to the Twm. This means that measures can only be taken if they are necessary and proportionate and we are advised by the OMT, there is a social and economic test, which is also reported in a stand-of-business letter, and there is always a parliamentary accountability. In fact, that means... Yes, I realise very well, and so does the Cabinet, that they are far-reaching measures and that they are also taken on the basis of something that is also in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u259	A test should always be carried out on the necessity, proportionality and proportionality of a measure. I'm actually asking for that concrete test. What is hardest on our stomachs is not the mouth caps or other minor restrictions; it is the corona pass. Where do we find that test? According to the University of Delft, that corona ticket in the 3G version leads to a 5% lower R-value. That is relatively little, but it does contain a serious restriction on fundamental rights. Many people need extra testing, can't be tested daily and can't participate in sports, can't go to the theatre. Café owners can't welcome all their customers. There is a considerable restriction of fundamental rights. Where is the formal assessment of these fundamental rights compared to the intended benefits of this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u260	First of all, I would like to leave the debate in the middle on what a percentage of a large number means or does not mean. The number of infections at the moment I have mentioned. Let us not dwell here on what percentage is relevant to these numbers of infections, nor on the possibility for every citizen to obtain a corona ticket by any route. As I said, there is a balance in the current balance between a virus that is spreading very rapidly on the one hand, an increase in the number of people who are seriously ill, the predictions that we have to take into account and which, to some extent, are already having an impact on us abroad, and, on the other hand, the demand of a lot of people who are happy that they are finally getting access to care for other conditions, people who are vulnerable, who want to be treated equally and who also want freedom, and care workers who are really waiting for a normalization of their long-term workload. In this balance sheet, we try to relax as much as possible in the given situation and to take well-considered risks, while maintaining certain measures. I would also point out that the sooner we can get rid of it, the better it is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u261	I'm really not accusing the government of taking measures because she likes them. I ask: where was this formal review carried out? This review can also be carried out differently by different people. I'll add a few things to that. The numbers are important, though. Because if you expect a measure to have no effect, you don't take it. If you expect a measure to have a counter-effect, the police say that this is a real possibility, you certainly don't take it. If you think the effect is quite positive, you weigh it down against the fundamental rights that you limit. And believe me, we do not know the exact number. That's not the point. However, there is a formal balance and this formal balance is taking place, because we are currently saying to 20 to 30-year-olds: if you do not booster yourself, you will lose your corona ticket, while for that group the chance to get to the hospital or to the ic is extremely small per person. Very small. Of every million you must express it with 0, so many recordings on the ic per week in the age category 20 to 30. That's less than a person in a group like that. Of a million people, eh, so that's 20 of those football stadiums full. And I'm talking about the Kuip or the Arena, not smaller ones. So you have an incredibly small chance of something happening. The chance that something happens to that group in traffic is probably higher than the chance at corona, but in traffic we are not going to take a daily road test. That kind of opportunity, that's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u262	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u263	When is the formal weighting between fundamental rights, the great restriction it is for that group, especially compared to 70-plussers, the opportunity they have and the intended health benefits? That's what I'm constantly looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u264	Two things about this. The first is: vaccinate and booster you do for yourself and do for your environment. For the young people who are being boosterd, this also means something for their parents, their grandparents, their teachers, the people with whom they are on public transport etc. You do that for yourself, and you do it for your environment. Let us repeat this absolutely over and over again. That means something to all these kids. I also hear from young people that they do that and that they are very well aware that it may have a very limited effect on themselves, but that they actually do it for others. I really think that's very commendable. I think we should keep that up, too, even here in the Chamber. That's the first thing. The second, as far as tickets are concerned, is this. Your Chamber has asked more than 140 questions, with which the department is busy, about the TU Delft report on the effectiveness of the corona tickets. Many officials are working on this, they are being answered, and I will send you those answers this week. As I said in the debate six days ago: I think it is really relevant, also for the work of the officials, to give you the answers first and to be able to read them yourself. Then we can continue to talk about what percentage or what number or what degree. With regard to that test: this test takes place, among other things, here, now, at this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u265	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u266	That test should have taken place when there is a proposal for an extension or a measure is submitted. I have not seen this test, for example, under the ministerial regulation, which still deprives half a million people of the corona ticket. You can choose that, but then that key takes place. I miss that. I really miss that after two years here. That's the ground job. We take the oath on that as a Member of Parliament, and also as a ruler. And you do that in advance, you don't do that in the debate. I would ask the government to reflect on that. The second is, of course, you get your inoculations for your environment, and you do it because you have a certain responsibility. If you look at the high vaccination rate, a lot of people do. The only question is whether you are putting a certain restriction on fundamental rights, which is fairly perceived as punishment, with only a small public profit on it. That's the question, not why people are inoculating. That's where the fundamental rights balance is. I don't see them being made after two years. That's what I'm missing in the analysis, in the big packs of paper I'm getting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u267	First of all, we come back to what Mrs Westerveld said and to the amendment calling for, in fact, a reversal of the assessment process. That's one. The second thing about that test is this. As has already been pointed out, the use of corona tickets in the current situation, together with other measures, is trying to bridge the gap between a virus spreading very quickly and very high numbers, and on the other hand everyone's perfectly legitimate desire to open up our society as quickly and as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u268	You will continue your speech. Very briefly, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u269	The Prime Minister said at the time of the introduction of the Corona Access Card that the Corona Access Card has no added value in the mass circulation of the virus. In addition, much lower values were used than where we are now. His remark was clear: you have to have less than 100 hospitalizations and less than some thousands of positive tests a day. We didn't talk about 100,000 and we're up there, then there's no point at all. We're here shooting at a moving image, and no matter what happens, the corona access card stays there. So I simply ask the government to carry out a fundamental rights test and an effectiveness test, including us and the entire population. Then you can compare it with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u270	Thank you. I think you've already asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u271	Then I come back a bit to a repeat of my answer: that test and the degree of effectiveness have been examined by TU Delft. Many questions have been asked about this and there will be an answer. Then we can also say in which setting it is most relevant, and then I am fully open to any discussion about when to use it. Then we come to a question from Mrs Westerveld, who referred to the field labs. Her question was whether I agree that we should not deal lightly with measures that restrict fundamental rights. I fully agree with that. I pointed that out in the discussion just now. As usual in a legislative process, the legislative proposal on test certificates and the legislative proposals on 2G and jobs has been asked for advice from, among other things, the Human Rights College and the Council of State. It means that by law it is possible to use ctb. But that affects fundamental rights. We have just had the explanations on this. The effective use of CCPs per ministerial regime is conditional on a concrete fundamental rights test. We have to do that every time we put it in. The reason why it makes sense in the current setting, I just indicated. I have also indicated that the sooner we can get rid of it, including all further measures, think of lifting closing times and so on, the better it is for all of us. Ms Pouw-Verweij pointed out that different experts could have different views on the same circumstances and that policy makers should be able to make an assessment that goes beyond virological expectations and epidemiological models. I fully agree with that. Action must always be a weight of all kinds of factors. I have already indicated how we have done this in the past period, referring, among other things, to why we have opted for the physical opening up of education and why we have taken measures in relation to sport. Mr Omtzigt asked about corona on the A list: why is it still there, because the mortality of corona is now much lower? There are three things that determine the detection of an A disease. Firstly, that is the need for a national direction. Secondly, this is the need to take individual measures in the circumstances, such as isolation and quarantine. Thirdly, that is the obligation to notify. These items are still present in the current epidemiological situation. When circumstances change, we must, of course, re-assess whether COOVID-19 should still be classified as A disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u272	What does the Minister mean by the existence of a reporting obligation at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u273	A reporting obligation means that the finding of covid must be transmitted to the GGD without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u274	In a large part of the pandemic, there has been no maintenance or response to this in any way. At the moment, there is hardly any source and contact research. Is the reporting system so effective at the moment that it will help us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u275	What we're getting at the moment is an insight into the number of infections. Think also of the advice on isolation and quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u276	This is a slightly different sentence from the aim of the policy. The aim of the policy is to have an insight into the spread of the virus and not to have a view of the number of infections. That may sound very small, but the difference is of course very large. We don't actually have a visual on the spread of the virus right now. It's just too widespread for that. My question is: is the reporting requirement for a disease for which more than 99% of people ultimately do not have to go to hospital, even proportional? Why do other countries opt for the expiry of this obligation and even for the expiry of a quarantine obligation? It's about advice, at most, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u277	Yes, it is proportional, once again in the situation where we still have those other two factors. We are still pursuing a national strategy, and we still have to. The reason why I've just indicated. It still makes sense to hold on to isolation and quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u278	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u279	I understand the need for isolation and quarantine, but can you explain why other countries have abandoned this notification?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u280	Sure. We're comparing a lot of that just happened with situations in other countries. What strikes me, not only in this debate, but also in previous debates and in general analyses, is that we are always doing this very selectively. You are right to make a comparison with Denmark, where it is now going very well. There the number of hospitalisations is considerably higher than in the Netherlands. It's on a high level. Luckily, that doesn't apply to the ic-recordings. Those numbers are even lower than in the Netherlands. For the situation within Europe, it is wise to do what Mr Omtzig has already referred to and what I fully agree with. You actually need to see which course has sailed for a longer time. In this respect, this is also something for a later evaluation. At the moment, because of the high numbers, which are still increasing, it is too early to let go of anything. It is also too early to let go of the other measures that are now in place, such as isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u281	Thank you. I think you are now at the end of the first theme. I would like to look at Mr Van Baarle, because he wanted to interrupt earlier. You don't have to? Fine. Then I'll give you a free interruption... and we'll now move on to the next theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u282	Then we come to Mr Hijink's question about the validity and effectiveness of CTPs. First of all, here's the thing. You might say that in a situation with an airway virus it was a high optimism, but the original thought was that if we had built up immunity through infection or vaccination, the immunity would be very long-term and would protect very long-term against re-infection and become seriously ill. That was optimistic in an airway virus. In the meantime, we know that, unfortunately, the protection after recovery and by vaccines will decrease over time. The TU Delft report also goes into this. For this reason, on 21 December last year, the European Commission decided to limit the validity of the digital corona certificate based on vaccination to 270 days. The reason for this was: there is 180 days the time, plus 90 days follow-up time, scheduled time actually, to possibly give and get a boost. The same was true for recovery: 180 days. But of course you don't need those 90 days for that. This situation once again had to do with the knowledge that we were always dealing with new variants, against which the protection from previous infection, but also from vaccination, was less. So the cabinet now wants these deadlines to be equal to those of Europe. We will also discuss the questions about the TU Delft report, including the appreciation. Mr Hijink asked a question about the 540,000 people who lose their corona admissions this week after previous vaccination and about others who have proof of recovery. How big is the group that threatens to lose the coronapas because of the new rules? I don't know exactly how many people it goes for. As I pointed out, due to the infectiousness of Omikron and the degree of protection, it is really wise to adjust the previous period of validity from "undetermined" to "very long." Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Westerveld asked why the cabinet had not previously informed the Chamber that the period of validity was being shortened; it comes as a surprise. First of all, I understand that your Chamber would like to have sufficient time to prepare the procedure. I can only point out that both in the letter from my predecessor of 14 December of the previous and in my own letters of 14 and 25 January, the intention to amend that period of validity for the Ctb has already been shared with your Chamber. The subject was also discussed in the parliamentary debates on 15 and 21 December. We also discussed this on 20 and 26 January. In addition, the information can be found at reichsoverheid.nl and was picked up by the media in December and January. We would like to look at that, but it has been mentioned extensively and repeatedly for a long time. Mrs Bikker asked me to explain the difference between vaccination, recovery and booster vaccination in terms of shortening validity. I have already indicated that the protection of vaccines and on the basis of recovery will decrease over time and that the infectiousness and altered properties of the omicron variant will play a role in this. The shortening of validity and the standardisation of European policies are appropriate in this respect. Mrs Westerveld also asked about young people who have not yet been able to get a booster and what that means in this context. For young people from 13 to 18 years old, a corona admission certificate based on vaccination is currently valid indefinitely. There is therefore no restriction based on the primary vaccination series. For the 18-plussers, they have the chance to get a booster shot. Mr Van Baarle asked whether we could oppose European harmonisation at European level. Unfortunately, the answer is: no, we cannot. I can, of course, make a comment on this, but we cannot steer European policy in this respect and do not say that it has to be different in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u283	It shall be in a delegated act. Member States may subsequently object to a delegated act. If sufficient Member States object, the Commission should withdraw it. I am not asking whether this is sensible, but if the government wants to do something, it can do so in the European Commission. It's kind of a follow-up procedure, like we have here in the Chamber, but at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u284	I've already indicated that we can object to it. That's right. You can do that with enough Member States. But in the current situation, it is a question of whether that is wise. The reason I don't think it's wise is why I just reported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u285	But the discussion was not about whether it is sensible. It was about whether it's possible. I'm saying it's entirely possible. The Minister says it's not wise, but that's another choice. I would like to ask him how we will ever get rid of this delegated regulation if we want to get rid of it. Is there some kind of temporaryity in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u286	This focuses on two different points. First of all, this is also about a recovery and vaccination certificate in the context of a corona pass. I already indicated that we can get rid of it as soon as the circumstances are right. In a situation where society is completely open, the pressure on care is low and access to care is very good for everyone, I am the first to want to get rid of it. Those 180 and 270 days are no longer relevant if it also goes off for European access. Can we object to this in the current setting? It's possible. Would I suggest doing that in the current setting? The answer is no, based on the answer I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u287	I would like to join Mr Omtzigt. Mr Van Baarle indeed asked if it could be done. That was the question. The question was not whether it was desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u288	Doesn't it make sense for the government to object to its deadline? If the government thinks it's necessary right now, I understand that, but the tendency here is often that things that are temporary stick. Would this not be a reason for the government to write to the Commission that it is in agreement with it, because that is clearly what the government wants, but that it is also asking that this delegated act should in principle not be valid for more than a year? A new decision can be taken in a year's time. If it's necessary at that point, we'll find out. Is that something the government would be willing to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u289	I would be very willing to do that, but I am sure Mr Omtzigt agrees with me when I say that we should first look at epidemiological developments. As you can see, it is beneficial in a number of countries. You rightly mentioned Denmark. At a time when this development is taking place more broadly in some other countries, if you already see the same development, then there will be broad support to do so with a final deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u290	You will continue your speech. Yes, Mr. Overzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u291	The reason I'm so exactly into this is because I'm next. You only have to object to something with a number of countries, but once something is stuck in European law, you often need unanimity, so all countries, to withdraw it. So it makes sense to say to the European Commission together with other Member States: 'Okay, we agree with the delegated act for intra-European travel, but would you please allow it to be valid for one year? Do you want to make that change?" I'd like to hear if we're gonna do that, otherwise one country can block it. I did not want to mention Hungary and Poland today, but you know exactly what I mean. If there's one country that doesn't feel like it, we'll have a discussion here in a year's time because we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u292	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u293	I think it's a welcome advice. I'd like to take it with me, and I'll come back to it. Mrs Bikker asked about people with a medical vulnerability who previously received a third shot that does not count as a booster. Am I familiar with this and do I want to come back to it, so that they do not get in the way? Yeah, I'm familiar with that. This group will be eligible for a booster in the coming months. That'll be the fourth shot for them. The CoronaCheck app currently does not distinguish between a third shot or a booster. In this respect, they should not be hindered in obtaining a valid ctb or DCC. They are eligible for this, and this is, of course, primarily aimed at their own protection. Mrs. Agema mentioned the same group. She asked: why a fourth injection for immunocompromised patients and at the same time shortening the period of validity? As already indicated, for the group immunocompromised, the fourth shot is actually the booster shot. The third shot was necessary for sufficient immunity. This question has been asked by Mrs Den Haan: how should we deal with the fact that the paper corona ticket is still less valid, namely 90 days? This has to do with the fact that, unlike vaccination or an infection detected, a paper entry permit is not required and usually not requested at the time of actual infection or vaccination. People can ask that in a manner of speaking, three months later, when they need such proof. In order to standardize, this period is shorter. We have already discussed the last time that we are now focusing on sending it back automatically for a period of 90 days during that period, as long as that is relevant. That is currently under development. I can't say exactly when it's time for this to happen. There are other questions with regard to the corona pass. I have already said a number of things about this, including the answer to the questions in the TU Delft report and the reason why we are still using 3G. They asked what the purpose of the corona pass was. Is that limiting the number of infections, while we accept 100,000 infections a day? There will be an answer to TU Delft and I will go into more detail about the effectiveness of those corona tickets. I have already mentioned that it is now trying to form a bridge between the very high number of infections on the one hand and the desire to open as much as possible on the other. Mr Omtzigt had a question about Spain, which only uses an entry regime and has no further restrictions. Why don't we? We see that access policies in Spain and Germany are left to several autonomous regions. As a result, it can also differ within a country. The use of corona tickets is currently contributing as part of the package; that is what I have appointed. That requires careful consideration. You rightly mentioned the situation in Denmark, for example. When we could make the same movement, I would, of course, be very much in favour of it, but the differences per country are still there. It is also a little dependent on their own epidemiological situation and their own pressure on care, also in relation to other factors. If I may refer to another country for another comparison, which has not yet passed: France currently has high levels of contamination, very high pressure on care and a strict 2G policy for virtually all public facilities. Mrs Westerveld asked: how does the rapid creation of 2G relate to the democratic decision-making process? On 2G, advice was asked to the OMT, the Security Council, the VNG, the Court of Justice and the Council of State at the front, but, as always, after submitting such a proposal, it is up to the Second and First Chamber in what way they intend to deal with the bill. Following the TU Delft report, I sent a letter to your Chamber today. As I have said, I will answer the further questions, including with regard to TU Delft. Mr Hijink asked if I would be prepared to ask the Council of State again for its opinion on the Ctb legislative proposals. It is absolutely not my intention to disappoint Mr Hijink, but I suspect that this will be the case in this case, because I am not prepared to do so. There's no need. The board is not an epidemiological review college. It is not appropriate in this sense either. The legislative proposals have also not been substantially amended following previous referral to the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u294	I understand the Council of State is not going to advise on the medical consequences. That position, and also proportionality, can of course have changed enormously now that we are dealing with another variant of the virus. This is a very different variant than, for example, the delta was. In that sense, therefore, it seems quite logical to me that the Council of State should look again through these other glasses: wait, we now have another situation with the same legislative proposal; does that change our opinion? That doesn't need to be extended; it could also be an update. That's not a very weird question to ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u295	It's not a weird question at all, but you're talking about a different situation. Yes, we have another variant, with a much higher number of infections and again a significantly increasing number of hospitalizations and increasing pressure on care, with predictions that the figures go at least to the same level as in the situation of November, when the Council of State assessed the current package.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u296	Yeah, but I just don't see the objection. Look, if the minister says "the odds are that the advice is unchanged," then so can I. But we can just ask, right? That's not such a point at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u297	Questions are open, but then it must have a certain purpose. I have already indicated why, in my opinion, it simply does not make any sense in this situation. Mrs Westerveld asked about the people who cannot be vaccinated and cannot be tested. How's the solution for that? Together with the national co-ordination of the GGD GHOR, we are working on a window to help these people, so that they can also have a corona access card. It is expected that they will be able to be helped in the course of February. Mrs Agema asked about the closure of outdoor public events. We have already discussed this at the beginning. Are they considered a danger? Events are allowed outdoors under conditions such as keeping a distance and the use of a ctb. Although the risk in the outdoor air may be smaller, it is still true that people can get infected both outside and inside and that, as said, the numbers are very high at the moment. We are looking for the match to connect these two: pressure on care, access for everyone and high numbers of infections and the desire to open as quickly and as much as possible. Then we come to the questions about long-term policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u298	We're gonna talk about the arrangement. I think it's all been now, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u299	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u300	Then I guess I'll just have to ask the question again a moment ago. That question is actually what exactly are the underlying figures and what the underlying justification is. There are now 0.5 million people, and perhaps millions of people in the coming months, who have had their two first vaccinations but have not had a booster. What justification does the Minister have for treating those people in the admission to public places as unvaccinated? What is the basis for that? I do not see it in the answer given by the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u301	That justification is quite simple. Let's get this over with. It has been said a number of times: people no longer have access to it. That's wrong. People have access. 3G also offers the possibility of a test. As mentioned above, it can be reached at more than 900 locations in the Netherlands. Then the unvaccinated ones. In the meantime, we know that with the current variant in time, the protective effect decreases significantly both after a through infection with previous variants and after vaccination. That's the basis. Once again, I cannot say it often enough. We try to use this temporarily, for the possibility of opening on the one hand with on the other hand access to care and the number of infections and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u302	Yeah, but this isn't evidence, is it? Look, everyone understands that a vaccine or an infected infection protects and that that protection will be reduced as time passes. But the minister himself writes that research by the RIVM shows that he writes that in his own piece, he wrote that in the delta time, so in November, December when that research was done, vaccination with those first two shots still protected 85% against hospitalization. That's a hugely high percentage, 85%. A booster increases that percentage to 97%, but otherwise it is still 85%. So what is the reason for saying, with the 85% that the Minister himself suggests, that we believe that these people should be considered unvaccinated, should be treated in the same way and should therefore have a test done in order to be able to go to a café or an event? What's the basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u303	A few things. The first is that the percentages mentioned by Mr Hijink are relevant, but the many millions of people that this would be about are also relevant; he is now leaving that out in the light of the numbers, but I have just heard him emphasise it several times. A percentage is a percentage of a number that is relevant. So, on the one hand, it is about the difference in effectiveness, but it is also about the number of people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u304	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u305	I understand that, too. Only, this is an investigation done at the time of the delta variant. So this is about people... I would if I were the minister... that is actually more my point... that is a bit more economical on all Dutch people who have done their best in recent years, who have followed the rules neatly and who have properly received the first two vaccinations on the advice of the cabinet. In doing so, they have shown their good will, protected themselves and protected society. All of a sudden, after nine months, they are told by the Cabinet that their admissions are simply no longer valid, even though they are hardly at risk of becoming seriously ill on an individual basis and are hardly at risk of overcrowding in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u306	I think you were at the end. This was a very long interruption. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u307	I have already mentioned a number of points, so I will not repeat them now. Because then I'm repeating too much. One factor is the protection of the person himself. The other factor is the protection of the environment. This involves the risk of disease, its effectiveness. The effectiveness and the risk of infection also count. We then come to different percentages than Mr Hijink has just mentioned. That in relation to the large number of people together makes it relevant to still use these corona tickets in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u308	But why doesn't the Minister write down all these convincing percentages? He also writes, for example, "Omikron," which I find striking, because British research shows that with a booster, the protection against transmission of omikron, i.e. against transmission of the virus, falls back to about 40% after two months. So you can see that such a booster is hardly effective in damping the spread. British research thus shows that the minister himself writes that after two months the effectiveness falls to about 40%. So also when it comes to preventing the spread of the virus, the effect of those boosters is very limited. So I think that's my point... that you can't have such serious consequences as the withdrawal of that QR code. That's just way out of line. This is going to be about millions of people being sent to Testes for Access, and Mrs Agema was right to make that point simply on the basis of a rule that the Minister is now coming up with. This happens without any justification for the real risk that these people run for themselves and for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u309	I hear the same question, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u310	I would like to reply once more, but Mr Hijink himself gives the answer. He himself gives the answer by demonstrating, stating that the effectiveness and protective effect decrease over time. That is precisely the reason for setting deadlines for the recovery certificate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u311	I understand the heading on corona tickets has been dealt with. I'm really missing a significant...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u312	I think there are still a number of different questions or questions about the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u313	Yeah, about the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u314	Yeah, the long run. I really do miss a considerable number of answers to the questions I asked about the corona pass. And I have one interruption on the only question that has been answered. But I really miss the latest insights on false security. I've been asking questions about that. I have dealt very specifically with the question of whether it is still legal, since the law deals with the comparable possibility of transfer. I haven't had an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u315	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u316	I apologize if I haven't answered a specific question. But both in the questions and in the interruptions there is a lot of duplication, so on the one hand I try to make a mix between answering and ending things. So I would like to go back to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u317	Perhaps you could repeat your questions which have really not been answered. Then perhaps the Minister will be able to answer them now and otherwise it will be possible in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u318	These are specific questions that simply do not appear in the answers. I just didn't get my name. This wasn't in the folders. These are specific questions I haven't heard from others. The Minister gets folders delivered. I get that. So I specifically asked again about the latest insights on the false security of the corona pass. Because we know what this means: many people who have a green check mark feel safe and therefore also do not comply with the rules. I wonder what the latest insights are about that. Furthermore, I have addressed quite specifically the question of whether it is true that the Public Health Act states that a vaccination-based entry permit should provide a comparable chance of transfer as a negative test. I can state that this is very specific in the Public Health Act. It is set out in Article 58 (2) (a). That's what it says specifically. I really want an answer to that during this debate, because that is a very specific point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u319	Yeah, I get it. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can he answer the questions now, or will he do so carefully in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u320	I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u321	Then I would like to make my only interruption to the question that has been answered. I should like to say a few words about that. The purpose of the ticket was discussed. We, too, had put questions to that effect. If I listen carefully to the Minister's answer, he actually says that the purpose of the ticket at the moment is actually to build some sort of bridge between opening up and limiting contamination. That's the answer he just gave. I think that is a little too vague, given the immense social consequences of such a ticket. It is about restricting fundamental rights. I'm curious about that. How long does the Minister think this bridge can last? 'Cause I think it's kind of hard to say, well, just 3G to have that bridge. I want a little more explanation and a little more logic. Is there a deadline on that? When will we come back to how proportional and effective it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u322	This is a perfectly correct question, thank you very much. This touches a little on the answers I've given before, with an apology for the double. This bridge is no longer necessary at the moment when, by completely abandoning all measures, we simply maintain access to care and prevent the loss of staff, thus maintaining the continuity of society. You may prioritize that yourself. If your Chamber says that it is the first to want the corona ticket off in all sizes and then accepts that in a given epidemiological situation certain measures need to be maintained longer, then that is a subject of discussion. At the moment I choose and the cabinet chooses a different weighting and that is: open as much as possible. In previous debates, we referred to this as a priority: education, sport, retail and so on. At the same time, however, we are maintaining certain measures which reduce the number of infections. That's the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u323	Today, the Minister indicated that, following the TU Delft report, which undermined the effectiveness of the Corona Access Card, he would like to carry out a further investigation himself in order to determine the circumstances in which that Corona Access Card might be proportionate. Now that gives me some suspicion, because it seems that the Minister already knows what the results of that further investigation should be and that he wants to write down purely and exclusively the results of TU Delft; but that aside. The Minister also indicated that, pending the outcome of that further examination, he would like to suspend the examination of the 2G legislative proposal. But there are still two very far-reaching legislative proposals before the Chamber, namely to be able to impose the QR code on the workplace and in education. My question is: is the Minister prepared to suspend the examination of these two legislative proposals, or to ask the Chamber to do so, pending the outcome of that further investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u324	First of all, I would like to make a comment on the suspension and re-examining of investigations and the suggestion that we can investigate for as long as there is a favourable outcome, and I would like to stress that that is absolutely not the intention. We won't do an investigation until a certain result comes out. I haven't asked TU Delft for any follow-up research at all at this time, and I don't intend to do that for now either. Perhaps that will become relevant, and I will inform you that I will, if we really achieve a completely different epidemiological situation, but not for the moment. The actual situation we have now has already been investigated by TU Delft.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u325	What about the two legislative proposals? That was also a question from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u326	The Minister now states that he has not asked TU Delft to do further research. You sent a letter to the Chamber today stating that you would like to have the results examined further in order to determine the circumstances in which the corona ticket may be proportionate and, pending the outcome of that examination, to suspend the treatment of the 2G legislative proposal. That's the follow-up investigation we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u327	What I want is, depending on the development in the coming period, to see at some point whether there could be a situation where 2G could be relevant. That's when we're gonna have to look into that, too. With regard to the other two questions: no, for the time being it was an explicit request or advice to do so for the 2G legislative proposal and not for the other two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u328	Finally, Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u329	The other two legislative proposals are at least as far-reaching and perhaps even more far-reaching than the 2G proposal, because the other two are in essential places. If these legislative proposals come into force, people will lose their jobs, and therefore their income, or they will not be able to finish their training without a corona pass. Can the Minister promise that he will also suspend these legislative proposals until he can make sure that the corona ticket is effective, which he apparently cannot do at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u330	Mr. Chairman. I've already answered this question, so I'm sticking to the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u331	I haven't heard the beginning of an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u332	The Minister will stick to the answer he gave earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u333	I still have three unanswered questions. The question is whether I should put that in one question. Following on from Mr Van Meijeren, I also had the question: that corona ticket is now valid in so many places, what does it add if you are going to do so in education and work? Another question I had asked is because the Minister's answer indicates that he is reducing the time limit for vaccination certificates and recovery certificates because of the uniformity and at the request of the European Commission. But the countries around us, Germany, France, Belgium and the United Kingdom, are different from that norm of 270 and 180 days. These are the most common destination countries and they are not the same. I have not yet received an answer to that question. Thirdly, I asked a question about the fact that 92% of the 60-plussers achieved the booster. Then I do not understand, if 92% of the 60-plussers have reached the booster and there are currently 200 people on the ic, how that panic can still be so enormous. As I said before, either screw up the ic capacity or set up emergency hospitals if necessary. How can that panic still be as big as 92% of the risk group who went to get the booster? Then why the vaccination pressure on the other six million that hasn't gone yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u334	First of all, I said it on an earlier occasion, and I said it earlier in this debate, but I would like to repeat it once again: vaccination must really, absolutely be a free choice of the individual, both primary vaccination and the boost. I've been a doctor long enough to always see how important it is for people to make their own choices and their own consideration. This applies to the use of medicines, that applies to intervention, and that also applies to vaccination. That's how I'm in it, and that's how I've always been in it. However, I believe that people should have access to good information, in all kinds of ways, through all kinds of channels, if necessary in their own language, in order to make a proper assessment of whether they want to. I welcome all the initiatives that are being taken in this area. Many have been mentioned here before. That's one. Then it's about panic. To be honest, I do not see any panic in this debate, either in myself or in colleagues, or in the care, nor in what is to come. One looks and sees. Alone, the predictions go up. That means there are concerns. I have just mentioned a number of groups. There are concerns among care workers, among patients who have had to wait a long time for their treatment, among vulnerable people, who say: are we being heard and are we perhaps also allowed out of our isolation? There is no panic whatsoever in these kinds of factors, but we are dealing with the situation that we have now and which I have outlined a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u335	I have not received an answer to any of the three questions. When it comes to panic, we've just been in lockdown for a month, the only country in Europe. That's a real panic. If you completely shut your country down and all those entrepreneurs can just throw away their Christmas stuff, you're panicking. A lockdown, as the only country in Europe, is a panic measure. I specifically asked the Minister: if 92% of the 60-plussers did get the booster, so 92% of the risk groups, and there are currently 200 people on the ice with corona, how can the panic be so great? Then the answer can only be that the ic capacity and hospital capacity are simply inadequate in order to be able to accommodate those who are still to be expected in the hospital. Can the Minister confirm that? And instead of putting pressure on those who no longer participate in the booster, should the Minister not greatly increase hospital capacity? I asked two more questions, which have not been answered either. The corona ticket is now required in unbelievably many places. What do MBO, HBO and work add in numbers of people? I had also asked a question about shortening vaccination certificates and recovery certificates. The Minister does so because of the similarity with other countries in Europe, but the countries around us, Germany, Belgium, France and the United Kingdom, have different deadlines in relation to us, so that cannot be the reason to shorten it. Then why would you shorten it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u336	So three more questions from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u337	First of all, with regard to ic capacity. The ic-capacity is not an issue at this stage. There is plenty of ic-capacity. Also in the predictions of the models of the RIVM it is not expected that the pressure on the ic will occur in the coming period. The numbers are low and the prediction is that they remain relatively low. We can, with a lot of effort, bet on more ic capacity: 200, 400, 800, 2,000 beds. We could go to more. But in the setting that we already have, with wide-ranging staff shortages, that makes a huge change on the rest of the care. Then it is really wise to use the staff at that time where it is needed. Now that's not necessary on the ICU. In fact, the hospitals have slightly scaled down their ic capacity over the past period. They still have enough spare capacity, but use it to re-attach the same staff to take care of catching up on the ok and in other places. That's one. Should we take into account, in the long term, a structural increase in ic capacity? Yes, it is. But now it's not an issue and it's not a reason for panic. Two. What does a possible broadening of the corona tickets help? That touches on the answers I've just given. It also affects the answers to the TU Delft report. The impact and effectiveness of corona tickets depends on the choices you make about the extent to which you use them. It is discussed extensively in the answers on the corona admissions and the TU Delft report. Finally, the level playing field for the EU. This uniformity is not an end in itself. We can make our own policies, internally. However, it is wise to take into account another variant and the reduction of protection over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u338	I'll give up after this, Mr. Chairman. If 92% of the 60-plussers have reached the booster, if there are 200 people in intensive care with corona and if the minister here says that there is no fear that intensive care will be flooded, then my question is how can the minister keep the corona tickets in the air anyway? 92% of the 60-plussers, out of the risk groups, got the shot and did what the minister wanted. And he doesn't expect to have a problem with the overflow of intensive care in the near future. So why doesn't he stop with the corona tickets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u339	On separate the corona admissions I won't go in anymore, because I've really done that all the time. Then it's about the sixth time I've given the same answer. However, I can say something about the ic's and the 92%. The 92% will not put pressure on intensive care. We now expect that with the current setting of omikron et cetera. However, it can put considerable pressure on hospital beds, neighbourhood care, general practitioners, ambulance care and so on. We are now two weeks further after we have relaxed. At that time, the inflow per day was 100 and the last 24 hours until this morning I'm getting today's numbers only tomorrow morning, that was 256. So from 100 to 256 in a very short time and that is according to predictions of the RIVM. What we need to take into account is that that goes even further up. We've had situations like 350 a day before, and we've even had an outlier once, very short-lived, to almost 400 a day. We are now facing a sharp rise. So that's what we need to take into account. That's not on the ic but in many other areas in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u340	Mrs. Agema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u341	Thank you for giving me this opportunity, because I had also asked for emergency hospitals. If the minister really thinks things can go wrong, why isn't he setting up emergency hospitals in the RAI or in gymnasiums? You do not expect an increase in the number of ICU patients. You're expecting a different kind of patient, a lighter patient than before. You might expect a lot of that. Then why isn't the Minister organizing that? Once again, the question, which the Minister has not answered six times, how can there be another problem if 92% of the 60-plussers, the risk groups, have reached the booster. Why is there another problem when there are 200 people in intensive care and the Minister no longer expects flooding there? If he's expecting an overflux, it's with slightly lighter patients. Then why isn't he setting up emergency hospitals? Can't we just open up as a society without corona tickets and all that other stuff?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u342	I'm gonna literally repeat an answer I gave here six days ago. Suppose we are able to create 20% extra capacity in the care wide with a huge amount of united forces. It's a major effect if we achieved that. We have a virus with a growth rate; in the last week it was up to 70%. Then you buy two days of treatment space with 20% extra capacity to take the same measure. We talked about ICU and clinical beds. Emergency hospitals need to be manned with the same hands in care, with the same people. We know from previous experience that patients with covid who need to be taken care of in a facility are generally so ill that you cannot do so with volunteers or with a single caregiver. So you can set up an emergency hospital, but then you pull the same staff away from another location. That's not gonna help us. The regions have looked at it in detail and they are looking everywhere for the optimisation of their own capacity. An important part in the past period concerned, for example, home oxygen treatment. If you put separate emergency hospitals, you have the facilities and you can put equipment there, but people will be pulled away somewhere else. Then we'll come in the long run. Mr Van Baarle asked for a long-term plan. Mrs Pouw-Verweij asked for a response to the need for a hard time to abolish measures. How long are we gonna string entrepreneurs and high school kids around? Is the Minister prepared to scale the role of the OMT? In the meantime, we have two years of experience with the virus. It is clear that it has always had strong flares, which have always required strong measures. In doing so, society has suffered a great deal of damage: mentally, physically, economically and in the long term. Long covid has been appointed several times. Recent studies have also been carried out on the recovery of patients who had been on an ic. Many of them still have complaints a year after that. The need to go back to a normal daily life is strong, but the exact further development is uncertain. At first the focus was very much on care and access to care, but we now know what this does to a lot of groups of people. The precise scenarios for the future are uncertain. I've already said something about that. I also mentioned the WRR and KNAW reports with the current situation and the further situation. Let me now outline the process for the coming winter. This week there will be a letter to your room about the stakes for the rest of the winter, with the continuation of this peak and how we get out of it. These include care coordination, care capacity, care staff, decision-making, guidance indicators, deployment of measures, communication and behaviour. In March, a letter on the long-term approach to covid will follow, which will give me the opportunity to name it "proper and broad attention to social factors, economic continuity and vitality versus accessibility of the entire care chain for all." Keeping the care accessible to everyone and keeping the pressure on care manageable have always been a primary objective. For this we use previous signal values et cetera, but we really have to re-calibrate those signal values, also on the basis of new variants........................................................................................................................................................................................ What does work and what may require adjustment? What are we going to do with the acquired knowledge? How can we achieve a more predictable and flexible approach and a more balanced decision-making process? We have already taken the first step, as I indicated earlier. That is, for example, sending an OMT opinion in advance. We will certainly also look at the role of the OMT. I would like to say that it is an independent advisory body. On other steps, such as communication, we will explicitly engage in discussions with many sectors, as I have already said. The long-term approach is something of all of us. Finally, I will inform you in spring about pandemic preparedness. In that context, I had a question from Mrs Tielen: how do we explain the measures well and how do we ensure that they are unambiguous and predictable and that we can go a little further step by step? I think this is an essential point, where we have to take lessons learned in communication. We should also be able to refer to previous situations, but of course always with uncertainty. You can't always compare one situation, one variant or vaccination status in time, one-on-one with the other, but we can certainly ensure a better and clearer communication about that. So I would very much like to discuss this with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u343	Thank you. A number of amendments have been tabled which still need to be appreciated. There's six of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u344	There's six of them. Yeah, let's see. First of all, the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Van Meijeren. The advice is to discourage that. The second amendment, in part No. 10, also belongs to Mr Van Meijeren and deals with the corona admission and minors. The opinion is also there: dissuade. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11 on the corona admission ticket and outdoor activities. Here too: dissuade. Mr Van Meijeren's amendment to item No. 14 on the corona admission ticket and sport practice is also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u345	Before you proceed, Mr Van Meijeren has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u346	Could the Minister explain why he is not advising the amendment to stop requiring the corona admission certificate for children?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u347	That is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u348	That amendment abolishes the corona admission permit for minors. In doing so, I would like to translate it into a way of removing the social pressure for young people to be vaccinated. Moreover, vaccination would not provide health benefits for young people. I would like to point out that ctbs are not used to induce people to be vaccinated, not even young people. I have already made it very clear that this is really a free choice, and I sincerely believe that. However, under 3G one can get a pass, regardless of vaccination status and regardless of infection. So the facilities are there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u349	Finally, Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u350	The corona admission ticket does mean that children are under pressure to be vaccinated, because it is not a matter of doing a test every day if you want to go to the cinema or a games hall with your friends and friends in a normal way. If you have to make an appointment first and then you can only get there the next day, it doesn't work. Kids are under incredible pressure. Practice also shows that a lot of children are vaccinated purely and alone so that they can continue their social lives unimpeded. Surely the Minister can't deny that? Does the Minister agree with me that we should spare children from these horrible measures and not expose children to these kinds of considerations for undergoing medical treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u351	I very much agree with Mr Van Meijeren that we should spare children. I have already said something about education, for example. This was also a reason to strongly support the first physical possibility of education and the adaptation of quarantine rules in education. But when it comes to dissemination and participation in activities, you mention the example of the cinema or other places where children come, often with parents, grandparents or others, then a corona admission ticket is indeed relevant in that setting. Hence the advice: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u352	You disagree. There is a short question from Mr Van Baarle. About this amendment? Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u353	Yes, Chairman, briefly. It concerns one of Mr Van Meijeren's amendments. That is the amendment that sees the application of Ctb in gyms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u354	The amendment in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u355	Yes. The government's reasoning is to apply the ctb in gyms, so that gyms can also be open and people can go there. DENK disagrees with the Ctb, but that is the government's reasoning. On the other hand, sports can of course make a huge contribution to the prevention of getting sick by corona. At the moment there is a large group of people in society who no longer go to the gym and do less sports, because they can no longer go there because of the ctb. Is the Minister prepared to carry out an analysis of the profits in the perspective of the government, not in the perspective of DENK, of the application of Ctb to gyms, but also of the loss of prevention of corona because a very large group of people no longer sports? Can that analysis be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u356	First of all, I fully agree with the importance of sports and the impact it has on your health and on your immunity. The impact of overweight on being seriously ill has rightly been pointed out a number of times. That applies not only to covid, but to a lot of things. At the same time, the focus here is specifically on preventing infections where large groups of people meet. In this setting the corona admission ticket fits with that, also in sports activities at gyms. What the exact degree of impact is: I think I can turn that question off, but it is extremely difficult to give an exact answer. That exact answer will therefore vary over time. It depends on the vaccination status, on the course of the time of the vaccination status, on the age-related prevalence of the infections at that time, i.e. on a huge number of factors. So if I were to get an answer to that question, it would be a very time-bound answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u357	You're moving on. The amendment in part No. 15. Mr. Van Baarle, you're about to have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u358	If it is all right with you, Mr President, I would like to begin with the amendment to item No. 16, because the amendments to Parts Nos 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, First of all, the amendment on item No. 16 by Mrs Westerveld. It has just been mentioned in the questions, because it was also about question 11. That amendment is aimed at strengthening parliamentary decision-making, which is an extremely important subject, as I have just said. The procedure of the ex post clearance law was introduced following the motion of De Boer et al adopted by the First Chamber, in which it was a determining control of the Chambers when the law was extended. Inherent is that the debate will then take place afterwards, as we are actually doing now. I understand incredibly well the need to redesign the decision-making process so that Parliament is involved in advance. I told you, you might want to ask the Council of State for advice. As far as I'm concerned, that's not necessary. It is a question of Parliament's powers, and it is therefore primarily up to the author of the amendment and then to the Chamber to take a position on it. In this context, I should like to make the assessment of the Westerveld amendment to item No. 16 to the Chamber. Sorry, Mrs van der Plas, for turning the numbers, because your amendment to part No. 15 is very close to that. Maybe you can find each other very much in consultation. There's just a little nuance in it. It's very similar. I understand Mrs van der Plas' amendment very well, but it is very difficult to implement it legally. It directly affects the fifth extension of a possible three-month period in proceedings. That's a discussion we're gonna have. That is the same with Mrs Westerveld's amendment. The legislative proposal we are debating here today is, of course, subject to the agenda of the First Chamber of 22 February. If the First Chamber would then accept it, then there would be less than the prescribed fourteen days left between the entry into force of this proposal and the next extension date, suppose that would be necessary, of 1 March. In other words, the two are very close together. I understand perfectly the underlying idea, as I have just indicated, but perhaps there is a combination here. In this particular case, therefore, my advice has been dissuaded, given the way it is now written down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u359	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm just looking around to see if there's a need for a second term with the MPs. That's the case. First of all, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u360	Thank you. Thanks to the government for the answers. Nevertheless, I have heard that we are looking at models rather than fundamental rights. Now, I like models. I've been promoted on them, but I still think that a fundamental rights-based assessment should be carried out here. I invite the government to take this constitutional task more seriously, even at the next extension, which is undoubtedly going to happen. I'd like to see that trade-off. We don't have to agree on that. Almost all vulnerable people have had boosters. We're going to force 20 to 30-year-olds and even young people pretty hard to get that booster. That is what is effectively happening for little health gain. Mr. Chairman. The models in the Netherlands were pretty bad. We were told on 21 December that 2,000 to 4,000 Ice beds would be needed, but that turned out to be 200. We heard that 7,000 to 20,000 hospital beds would be needed, but that's 1,000 right now. That was with a large package of measures. This minister has taken fewer measures than were in the RIVM models. We were a factor ten to twenty wrong. We went into lockdown then. The Danes had a prediction on December 15th that was true. They assumed between 25,000 and 55,000 infections at the top. It was 43.000. And they assumed 100 Ice Beds and that's what they came out with. If we had such a good prophecy, we wouldn't have gone into a lockdown. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Danish models had significantly better predictive value than the Dutch models;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that Danish researchers and modelleurs issue a review of second opinion on the RIVM models,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u361	Mr. Chairman. With regard to EU delegated legislation, I await it quietly. France was a beautiful thing. I would have liked to have a little discussion about that. France has a very tight 2G and yet a lot of infections. That's almost proof it doesn't work, you'd think. As far as RIVM is concerned, I hope to have some comments on the over-death rate study. I am not convinced that we are doing the right thing. In the end, Parliament must be able to withdraw measures, but this cannot be done under the current law. I shall come back to that at the next extension, but that is where the core lies. Here, strict measures must be introduced and ultimately assessed or can be repealed. This should not be done on a daily basis, but it should be done if necessary. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. The first motion is about the A-status. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Omikron variant is much less sickening and that there has been a very significant decrease in the IFR and the CFR;]] [[invites the Government, possibly following an urgent opinion of the Health Council, to examine whether corona should remain on the A list and to submit the outcome of this test to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u362	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the ministerial arrangement. Still on 3 January, the then Minister De Jonge said that he was looking to see if it would be extended. He said the Chamber would be informed. That happened on January 15th. There are people who are looking at the House of Representatives now, but there are also people who do different jobs and not look at every debate in Parliament. I have some understanding for that too, especially for the fact that they do not read all the letters. When you do this kind of thing, you really do public information. With this arrangement, if you let it go that Friday I still have to see that it's gonna work, you say to people, "You had it on your screen that it was valid for a year and it's gonna be six months. You had on your screen: that vaccination is valid. It is now limited in validity or terminated at once." That's what happens to people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to bring into force the part of the ministerial regime which envisages the shortening of the validity of the corona access card,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Hijink, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u363	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his first-term response, although we continue to disagree on fundamental points. That's lucky in this house. The Minister will not be surprised that DENK does not agree to the extension of the Emergency Act. We have already expressed our opinion on it in principle in the first period. We believe that it is no longer justified, within this time frame, in the area of proportionality that we give the government the power to introduce these measures, which are heavy measures, around per decree. Such a law only fits in a situation of need and crisis. More and more people, even members of the OMT, indicate that we are no longer in that crisis phase but in a transition phase. There's another law that goes with that. Despite the Minister's reply, we are therefore still opposed to this law. Mr. Chairman. On the subject of the regulation, we have co-signed Mr Omtzigt's motion. We really do not have the support of the Minister for the decision that will ensure that the corona pass for that very large group of people lapses. That remains too general. It remains too general to be able to make such a far-reaching decision for such a large group of people, and also in the short term, which rightly leads to a lot of anger in society. Mr. Chairman. Our final point is the corona pass. Again, there is not enough analysis on the basis of which, on the basis of what evidence of effectiveness, this massive violation of fundamental rights must be committed. The Minister says he does not want to talk at the moment about percentages given those very high contagion rates. It's all getting so little concrete. It's way too general. In doing so, there is far too little justification to justify such a serious violation of the freedoms of people. The Minister can say that with so many infections it does not matter that they are small percentages, but those small percentages are indeed relevant in relation to the huge violation of freedoms. So, following on from previous speakers, I would really like a more concrete test on that and I would like to see proof of effectiveness. We don't see that evidence. So both 3G and 2G must enter the trash as soon as possible. Finally, Mr President. I had a brief debate with the Minister about the CTB in gyms. Despite the Minister's statement that this is a complicated matter, we would like the government to carry out an analysis of what the ctb is doing in gyms in terms of health benefits and what it costs us if a very large group does not work out anymore. What does that cost us when it comes to corona prevention? On that point, I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government applies the CTB in gyms;]] [[whereas this means that a substantial group of Dutch are not sports in the gym;]] [[Whereas sport can make an important contribution to the prevention of disease caused by corona;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the costs and benefits of the application of CTB in gyms and to consider health losses by reducing movement in relation to the prevention of disease by corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u365	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle. I don't like Mrs. Agema, so we're going to see Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really think the Minister is making a mistake about shortening the validity of the corona tickets when it comes to vaccination. People's confidence in corona policy is very important. Many people have done the right thing, also in the eyes of the Minister, by having them vaccinated twice. The protection of this group of people is still very large. It's half a million now, but I really don't think it's out of the question that the number of people who are about to lose their tickets is just gonna run into the millions. Then the shore will turn the ship itself, because that cannot be sustained in this way. So I hope the Minister will come back to that. It's just not wise. Nor is it necessary given the percentages and how good the protection actually is for people who have had these two vaccinations. Then it still feels like a form of injustice when you get hit in that way and you actually have to go on a trip to the test street, while in recent years as a resident of our country you have done so well to keep to the rules and do what the cabinet requires of you. Mr. Chairman. Then there is something else: the legislative proposals that remain on the corona tickets. The Minister does not like to ask the Council of State again for its opinion on this matter. We do think it is wise to do so, not because the laws have changed, but because the circumstances in which they will be dealt with are very different and discussed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court is currently considering three legislative proposals extending the scope for using corona access tickets;]] [[Whereas epidemiological conditions have changed substantially since the Council of State advised on these legislative proposals;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Council of State for an updated opinion on the three legislative proposals before us,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I would like to reflect briefly on the debate that has taken place. Often you start your second term by expressing thanks for the answers given. I'd like to do the same to this minister, but I'd like to express my annoyance. I've asked a lot of questions that haven't been answered. This is this Minister's third debate on corona, so I understand that it may be difficult for him to have those answers, but this has been the case for some time now. That annoyance grows on me. I've highlighted two questions. I think it's relevant to get another answer to that. The first question is about false safety. I would like to clarify the other question, because I really hope that there will be an answer that will satisfy me. Is it true that the Public Health Act states that a vaccination-based entry permit should provide a similar chance of transfer to a negative test? In other words: can you still give a corona pass now that the protection of vaccinees against transmission with omikron has fallen to 21% without booster and 60% with booster? Is the legal basis that now exists sufficient to continue with the QR codes at all? For us this is a very relevant question, which has not yet been answered. I have a few final words to say about this debate. At present, this minister thinks that the corona ticket is a kind of bridge between releasing measures and damping the infections. We really think that this is too vague an objective for such a far-reaching measure that has such an impact on our society. I believe that the purpose of the corona access card should be much clearer. That's why we stay against the corona tickets. As far as we are concerned, there is really no question of it: if it does not benefit, it will not harm. That is really not the case with those corona tickets, so I hope that we will at least have a better basis, so that we can see as a party what we think of that. At the moment we find it really too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u368	Thank you. In repeating the questions, I saw the Minister nodding, so I'm sure he'll answer those questions in the second term. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. I am looking at Mrs Paulusma to see if she still needs a second term. Mrs. Tielen? She's still having second thoughts. You can think about it for a while. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u369	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. Despite the fact that on some points I totally disagree with the policy, I would like to thank the Minister. I welcome the fact that the Minister listens very carefully to the whole debate, looks at speakers and does not turn around. It's nice to be in such a debate. If compliments can be given, so will I. This does not apply to policy, but you have noticed that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the correct registration of the corona patients. One in four patients has been hospitalized for something other than covid, as I said. This means that there are no 1,137 people in the hospital by covid, but 795 people. 342 people in hospital with covid wouldn't even have come to the hospital with covid if they hadn't had anything else. My questions are as follows. Do those numbers on the coronadashboard still make sense? Is this an honest picture and, if not, when will this be adjusted? Why do hospitals pass on people with covid as patients through covid? Do they receive compensation for this and, if so, how much is it per patient? If not, when will the hospitals stop passing those numbers? Can the Minister give us some clarity on this? In anticipation of the answers, I shall submit a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the figures on the coronadashboard do not distinguish between hospitalisations or on the ic with or by corona;]] [[Whereas NICE has started to register separately patients who are being recorded with or by corona;]] [[Whereas the first figures show that 25% of covid patients with a condition other than covid have been taken into hospital and those without that other condition may not have been hospitalised by covid;]] [[calls on the cabinet to immediately adjust the figures on the coronadashboard by separately displaying patients admitted to the hospital with corona or on the ic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Pouw-Verweij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I went to my room to type motions, but I didn't know I'd taken so long. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for the sincere attention he has for Members of Parliament when they stand here speaking. I found the debate very disappointing. If 92% of your risk groups have gone for the booster and now 200 people are on the ic, I can hardly imagine why we are still in the panic mode and why we were in that lockdown last month. I really hope that the Minister will also get a little out of his honeymoon and make the promise that there will be a change in the corona policy, as a very large part of the Netherlands hopes. In fact, every time we see that the problem lies in the capacity of hospitals and throughout the healthcare chain. Something must be done there, if we are not always to be the only country in Europe to see far-reaching restrictions on freedom being imposed on us. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop any restrictions on freedom due to lack of evidence and to use them on a well-proven, effective indoor environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop all corona admissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-26]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u371	If motions of this kind have already been tabled, I apologise. I like to put them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u372	They're unique. Then I'll suspend the sitting for about ten minutes, until 11.15 p.m. Then we start with the second term on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u373	The next item is the second term of office. It is nice if Mrs Van Esch is there for the answers to her questions, so perhaps you can start with the appreciation of the motions that have been tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u374	Thank you, Mr President. I will certainly wait for those questions to be answered, but before I go into the motions and the remaining questions I have one request. In my view, taking into account the careful decision-making process which is still to take place in the First Chamber and the entry into force, whether or not, of the adjustment of validity periods and so on, it is appropriate to vote on this matter this week. I'd be happy to consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u375	Yeah, that sounds good to me. Then I would like to take a look at the Members and suggest that we vote tomorrow. There were already votes planned. We shall therefore vote on the legislative proposal, on the amendments and on the motions for resolutions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u376	Then I have no choice but to return to Mrs Van Esch's question first, with my sincere apology that I have not done so before. At some point it was so messed up that I was browsing too quickly: what have I already had and what haven't I had? That is even more annoying if you have not answered any of your questions in previous rounds. I am not aware of any evil, by the way. Your question was about the ticket. Is it true that in the Wpg it says that a vaccination-based entry permit should provide a similar chance of transfer to a negative test? The answer is yes, that's right. The difficulty of this situation is that that similar opportunity is a comparison between apples and pears; I apologize for this comparison. The risk of a negative test after a previous infection and after vaccination varies over time and also by variant. You mentioned one moment specifically with regard to omikron, but that also varies over time. Similarly, a negative test also depends on the prevalence of the virus at that time. That's even age-related. If you count all that, you can say that there is a similar effect of a negative test and of a recovery certificate. But if you look at that for a second, it depends on a lot of different factors for each of those individual components. So it's a "best approach." I'm sorry about this whole technical answer, but yes. I would like to comment on Mr Omtzig's question on the delegated act. I've made a very specific inquiry. First of all, the DCC. The deadline is now at the end of June. The Netherlands previously objected to that delegated act because there were doubts as to whether the proper procedure had been followed. The majority of Member States did share that the proper procedure had been followed. Only Hungary also objected. What is currently being negotiated is the extension of that DCC. I would very much like to take your advice to make sure that this is time-bound again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u377	I would like to look at Mrs Van Esch, because I think there was also a question about false safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u378	If you'll excuse me, excuse me... for a moment I'm confused. Do I have to answer a supplementary question or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u379	There was another question about false security. Mrs. Van Esch, perhaps you could...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u380	Yes, if you have the question for me, please, because I really don't know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u381	I had asked about the latest insights on the false security of corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u382	Yes. That has come up somewhat. There is no 100% protective effect of the corona pass. Of course, this has to do with the extent to which the virus occurs at a certain point in time. Now that it's very common, it's even more likely that someone will also have asymptomatic the virus, whether it's after a negative test or after a previous infection. So it offers only a partial safety and even a partial dampening effect. Part of that also appears in the TU Delft report. It doesn't provide 100% protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u383	We're gonna have some corona debates. Perhaps I should ask the question a little more explicitly, because it was more about false safety, so that people feel safe and therefore break rules. So it was more about behavioral influence. But let's move on another time, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u384	Finally, I had a question from Mr Omtzig about fundamental rights and decision-making. When deciding on the measures, it shall be considered whether they are necessary and proportionate. Part of this is a review of fundamental rights. This is described in the explanatory notes to each amending scheme, as well as in the explanatory notes to the period of validity and short stay scheme. The arrangements are hung in accordance with the law in your Chamber, so that you can intervene. Then we'll get to the motions. I will be the first to come to the motion on part No. Mr Omtzigt's 18th report on Danish researchers. My advice is: dissuade. The scientists are in constant contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u385	Mrs Van der Plas, do you have a question about fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u386	Maybe I missed it, but I don't think so. I had asked questions about the coronadashboard, namely those figures of one in four. Those questions are as follows: Are the numbers on the coronadashboard still valid? Is this an honest picture? If not, when will this be adjusted? Why do hospitals pass on the covid people as covid patients? Do they get a fee for that? If so, how high is it per patient? And if not, when will the hospitals stop passing those numbers? In anticipation of the answers, I had already tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u387	I've got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u388	If the answers don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u389	I think the answers are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u390	Yes. Shall I make the motion first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u391	Well, maybe first the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u392	Sorry, confusion all over. I think it would be more useful to hear the answers first, because on the basis of the answers I can decide whether or not I am happy with the motion. Then I'm not filing the motion, or I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u393	Exactly, so first the answers. I see Mr Omtzigt standing at the microphone, but it should not be confused. The Minister first answered Mrs Van der Plas' questions and then Mr Omtzigt had the opportunity to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u394	First of all, the corona patients with and through corona both need isolation. They need to be nursed in isolation. Depending on how the hospital, the nursing home or anything else does, they either bring these people together into an isolation unit or do so per room, especially if there are single rooms. The personnel responsible for taking care of a particular patient are covered by all the isolation measures involved. That means those patients are scored as such. In most places they take a place in an isolation ward, apart from the fact that they also receive other treatment. This also applies to patients who first enter with something else, who have respiratory problems for example and are then tested for corona. But it also applies to patients entering with corona and experiencing other problems during their stay. These can be renal impairment or cardiac arrhythmias, for example; that can be anything. The distinction for the staff is therefore: should or should not a patient be in isolation? There is a discussion going on about with or by corona. We know a distinction in that regard. It's wonderful what the NICE Foundation is asking out right now. That's an initiative. In the previous debate it was mentioned that it is 'a check mark', but it is really more than a check mark. What happens here is typically something that happens very often in healthcare. There are people who would love to know something. That's what a trial is about. But for the NICE Foundation, the data must be updated every day in every hospital by a data manager. So it's really more than a tick, while the patient is in the same isolation unit. Does that disturb the data on how many patients really get sick from covid and how many not? Yeah, but they do need the total care including the isolation. Depending on what the total package is, of course there is a dbc, a fee. There is a separate rate for a patient on the ICU. A patient in the clinic is also subject to a rate, depending on what the condition is at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u395	I disagree with the Minister. 'Cause if I break my leg and go to the hospital with a broken leg, that's where I get tested. I get that someone's being tested, because you need to know if someone's contagious. If I get tested for covid and it turns out, I'm gonna be in an isolation unit. I understand that, too. But without that broken leg, I might never have gotten into the hospital with covid. 'Cause maybe I have mild complaints or barely any complaints. The test will show that I'm positive. But those patients are counted as hospitalized because of covid. The numbers are distorted, though. You know what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u396	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u397	'Cause if those people, the 300-so much we're talking about hadn't had that condition, they might not have even been there. On the basis of these figures, we are making policies. That is my big objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u398	I get it. I get it. But let me deal with your broken leg. When you have to take a picture of your broken leg to see if the pin is right or anything else, then there is all the works: insulation, a separate route et cetera. The moment you have to go to the ok with your broken leg, there is also all the works. I'm sorry, but you know what I mean. So that's really a different approach than you'd get for just your broken leg. For hospitals, it means something. It is a fact that the NICE Foundation now regulates this. That's something the care field does itself. Fine! We're getting the data, and we're gonna see what we can do with it. I didn't ask for it. The care field does it itself. Let's see what comes out of it. It's just something that gives the care field itself extra administrative pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u399	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally. And then I would like to finish this subject, because we are also going to have corona debates. Let me give you an opportunity to see what you're doing with your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u400	I don't care what the Minister says at all, because I get that. I understand that these measures are being taken. I get all that. I am concerned that those figures are being brought out as being... Because the whole of the Netherlands looks at it like: Oh, there are 1,100 people with covid in the hospital and they're all in the hospital because they've gotten sick from covid, even so sick that they have to go to the hospital. But one patient in four doesn't. Those patients just happened to have been tested positive. That's quite a difference in numbers. And that is what policy is made of. That's what lockdowns are called for. That's what the hospitality business is for. There's gonna be a lot of stuff...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u401	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u402	Corona passes are introduced on the basis of those figures. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u403	I think we understand each other very, very well, but we just give a different appreciation of this situation. Can I give you one more thing? It seems very simple: with or by corona. But I'll give it to you on a note: the moment you go through a list of these patients, it's really hard for a lot of patients to say whether it's with or through corona. A patient comes in with chest pain, lack of oxygen in the heart muscle, heart attack and so on, as well as corona and respiratory infection. Is it corona or corona? I had a patient with a blood disorder last week, where you get an increased breakdown of your blood cells in infectious diseases. A crisis is what we call it. Is it Corona or Corona? I could mention a long list. So I am very curious about the numbers of the NICE Foundation. I didn't ask for it, but let's see what it means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u404	Thank you. Mrs. Agema, is this a subject? No, we're having other debates. I really want this... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're also getting appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u405	This is not a regular corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u406	This has nothing to do with legislation. This was also discussed in the previous Corona debate. A motion has now been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u407	This afternoon, a small research by the RIVM also came out. I thought that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u408	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u409	That seems very relevant to me, Mr President. I'm going to continue with the simple case of the person with a broken leg, a complex leg fracture. I understand you can't put it in a regular ward, because he'll only infect a vulnerable other patient. I understand they're on Covid Street. But this afternoon RIVM wrote, when we were already in this debate, that as the age of those people is lower, it is more common for them to lie there with corona instead of corona. That is important in the context of the question I asked earlier, about 92% of the 60-plussers getting the booster. How big is the problem the Minister is looking at? In the context of the information we have just received, I would like to have an assessment of how the minister thinks people under 50 are in hospital instead of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u410	First of all I want to do the simple approach: the RIVM gives the exact numbers about the occurrence of corona, age-related, so for example in the group 60-plus, current, with an update per week et cetera. Let's assume for a moment that couple, totally hypothetically, has one in one hundred and sixty-plusrs of corona, and someone is admitted with corona, then we have to assume, if that's really with corona, that's one in a hundred. What else would be the difference? When we talk about that kind of numbers, you can actually say exactly, based on the occurrence of the virus in the respective age group, whatever there will be with corona in the hospital, on the train or anywhere else. But if things are different, then we really have a serious discussion: is it with corona or by corona? That's what we're gonna get data on. I will look at it with as much interest as you, but I did not ask for it myself in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u411	The Minister was right to say that there is indeed something about fundamental rights in the ministerial regime. That's right. There is something about fundamental rights when issuing a short-stay CTB. The whole room agreed on that. That's if someone from outside the EU comes here and shows that he's been vaccinated, then he gets a corona pass for two weeks. That was not controversial in anyone's mind and nobody objected to it last time. There are two pages to review fundamental rights and therefore only the ECHR and not the Constitution. But about shortening the deadlines by which half a million people lose their corona admissions this week, there is not one sentence about the constitutional test. That's what I mean; are we testing the right thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u412	I have already outlined the reason for this shortening of the deadline and the analogy with the European situation; the overall test, including with regard to a temporary legislative measure and everything that goes with it. If there are specific items in which Mr Omtzigt says that he would like an additional answer to that, I can give it wholeheartedly, but then it will have to be done at a later date and then it may be possible to do so in writing. I cannot give an additional answer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u413	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u414	I get that answer. But I do point out here, also towards the department, that we often get tests on the small changes with long things about fundamental rights, and that what is experienced as a serious breach is done just as quickly. I expect a serious test of fundamental rights from now on, including in the case of extensions. That is the point I made today, and this was an example of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u415	As I said, I understand the answer. I have also indicated what the setting is under which we make this adjustment, which is the underlying argumentation, and the impact, and what the possibilities are for people when their vaccination certificate expires, to still get a corona pass. Those possibilities were there and they remain. They can get these, for example by getting tested and also by getting boosters. The access to both is direct, at an extraordinary number of locations throughout the Netherlands. This relates to the also constitutional right to health protection and access to health care. That is annoying, but we must keep that up in this situation, while we are also looking for all the other points to which Mr Omtzigt rightly points and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u416	Thank you. We're going to the appreciation of the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u417	I'll start with the motion in part No. 18 with regard to contact with the Danish researchers and review the OMT models. I advise against this motion. Scientists, including RIVM, are in constant contact with international colleagues, making comparisons between predicties and so on. I do want, as I have mentioned a number of times, to model, and thus also to use alternative forms of models, and to make them part of the long-term approach. I share Mr Omtzigt's view that you cannot continue to sail on one model, no matter how much united forces and energy are deployed on it. But we need more. Separate calculations have been used from the National Network Acute Care for a long time, in the modelling very much focused on certain input from RIVM, for example on virus prevalence and properties, including with regard to hospitalisations. That's how I know a few others. I am already in consultation with both Mr Van Dissel and Robbert Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u418	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u419	Mr. Ommzigt, we're not starting a new discussion on every subject right now. Now let's really get on with the appreciation. We are really still having debates about the future of corona. Let's continue with the motion to part no. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u420	The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 19 is about checking whether corona should remain on the A list: dissuade. The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt's 20 requests that the government... apologize, I cannot even read what is written here 'the part of the ministerial arrangement that sees the shortening of the validity of the CTA not to enter into force'. This motion has been dissuaded. The argument for this is given. The motion in part No. 21 requests that the costs and benefits of sport be examined. This motion has been dissuaded. The argument has been mentioned. The motion in part No. 23 with regard to an update of the Council of State Opinion, is not recommended. The motion in part No. 24 requests that the figures on the dashboard be adjusted immediately when it comes to patients with and through corona. Appreciation is: dissuade. The reasons have just been mentioned. The motion in part No. 26 calls for all measures to be stopped and has been discouraged. The motion in part No. 27 about stopping the ctb has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u421	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the Adoption Act, fourth extension duration Temporary measures covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-tweedekamer-23.u422	I would like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport for his comprehensive answer. I think you are now three or four weeks of minister and you have already had three or four debates. Three weeks? Looks like four! In any case, thank you for the detailed answer. I would also like to thank the Members and the people who have followed the debate. I have just indicated that tomorrow we are going to vote on the law, the amendments and the motions. We'll do that tomorrow afternoon.
