ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Paternotte, Mr Kuiken, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Tellegen amending the law on the termination of pregnancy in connection with the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of reflection for the termination of pregnancy, Section 35737. Today we're gonna do the first term. I would, of course, like to welcome the initiators. It is always a very special time to submit and deal with an initiative law. Today we have the first term and in that sense it is for you, I think, to listen quietly. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport as advisor to the Chamber. This bill was originally tabled by Mrs Pia Dijkstra, whom I would also like to welcome. It is very nice that she too is present to follow the debate. The expectation is that next Wednesday, 2 February, will be the continuation of the legal treatment. And that's pretty fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	Then I go to the first speaker and that is Mrs Paulusma of D66. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today is a special day. Today we are discussing a law on women's autonomy and freedom of choice. And I'm a woman. I'm a mother. I'm a nurse. I am a representative of the people and I am proud that we can take a step in our abortion legislation. A step by which we abolish the obligation of five days of reflection. A step where we take women seriously from the very first moment in their consideration of breaking down a pregnancy. Mr. Chairman. Before I go on with my speech, I would like to say a word of thanks, a word of thanks to all those people who have worked hard on this proposal in recent years. Of course, I would also like to thank the people in trade union K: Mr Paternotte, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Kuiken and Mrs Tellegen, as well as the previous carriers of this bill, Pia Dijkstra and Rob Jetten. I am particularly pleased that Mrs Dijkstra is also here. I would also like to thank all the policy staff and the staff of the Dutch Parliament and of the Ministry. Writing an initiative proposal is a long-term process and I am glad that you have had enough air. And I am also very grateful to all women and men who have made their voices heard in order to correct this point in our legislation. Finally, a special word of thanks to all the aid workers in abortion care and the women who sought abortion aid and expressed their views on this unnecessary mandatory period of reflection. Mr. Chairman. Unwanted pregnancy and abortion are not subjects that we should deal with separately. It is good to consider the broader issue of how we talk about sex and pregnancy in the Netherlands as a possible consequence. Information on sex, information and access to contraception are invaluable. And mind you, D66 obviously believes that unwanted pregnancies should be prevented where they can be. And yet a woman can get unwanted pregnant. And then I find it essential that a woman gets all the help and information she's looking for. Every year around 30,000 abortions are carried out in the Netherlands and our abortion law dates back to 1984. This law states that, following an interview with an abortion doctor, women are required to be given five days' notice in order to arrive at an informed choice. During the interview with the abortion doctor, it is discussed whether someone has all the information she needs, but also whether there is any doubt whether a woman has come to this choice voluntarily and whether alternatives to this abortion have been considered. A comprehensive and careful conversation between woman and doctor, based on the professional responsibility of the doctor and the personal responsibility of the woman in fulfilling her freedom of choice. Then, at the end of a conversation like this, when you're sent home to think about it for another five days, it hurts. You don't feel taken seriously. Then it's decided before you, instead of you deciding for yourself. Apparently, there's an assumption that even after a conversation the woman still hasn't thought well. These five days are imposed from above and are for the woman, but also for the doctor, paternalistic, patronizing and unnecessary. That's why D66 wants to get rid of the mandatory five-day period of reflection. D66 believes that together with the doctor, women can best determine the time at which the abortion can be carried out. To clarify, women, together with their doctors, may also decide that they need less or perhaps more than five days of reflection, but the mandatory nature of this law is patronizing and paternalistic. It does injustice to the autonomy of women and the professionalism of our abortion care. Mr. Chairman. In 2006 and in 2020, the Law on Abruption pregnancy was extensively evaluated twice. As a result, abortion care in the Netherlands is among the best in the world. We should also be proud that this care is so well arranged. What has also emerged from this evaluation is that women find it psychologically very difficult that they are sent home for another five days to reconsider their own decision. That five-day mandatory period of thought is emotionally debilitating. Women suffer from this, physically but also psychologically. Mr. Chairman. Women don't make this decision lightly or casually. Neither the above-mentioned evaluation nor any other study confirms that this five-day mandatory period of reflection makes any sense. What does help is professional help and support to make a choice. Whatever the outcome of that choice of women may be, women decide and not politicians. Like women, doctors also indicate that it is tailor-made how much time someone needs to come to a decision. Sometimes women need more than five days and sometimes less, but the woman determines. For the sake of clarity, there is no other medical treatment in the Netherlands where the law requires that someone be sent home to reconsider. The current legislation says a lot about how women were thought about, how there were doubts about the professionalism of abortion care. Today we are taking a new step to change that. Mr President, I will conclude. Over the past few years, I have received numerous reports from women who have had to think about it for five more days. Women, I heard you! Starting today, we're gonna make it right. We're gonna be boss in our own belly again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. Oh, I see Mr. Stoffer wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	It's an interruption, though. Mrs Paulusma speaks of a day that also shows enthusiasm. I gotta tell you, I think of this as a black day. Anyway, there are differences of opinion. I have a question. The new cabinet is not there yet or this proposal will be dealt with here in the Chamber and again next week, at an enormous rate. I have also read the coalition agreement, and it says on page 35 that work is also going to be done to reduce abortions, which is being done a lot. Can I count on D66 to speed up that trajectory as much as it is behind this? Can we expect that in the very short term here in the Chamber, driven by D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	That we want to talk about it quickly here in the Chamber: we have been talking about this for 40 years, because abortion legislation is already 40 years old. At that time we, D66, were against this paternalistic, patronizing and unnecessary obligation to reflect. So this isn't from yesterday or last week. This is something that's been going on for years. And yes, our coalition agreement also states that we want to do everything we can to prevent unnecessary pregnancies. As far as I am concerned, we are going to talk much more about sex in this country, to ensure that people also have sex with consent and with pleasure, and that way we are also thinking about pregnancy and birth, so that fewer abortions are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	That's wonderful talking, and so on. This is now being brought to the Chamber at enormous speed and directly here. My question was: is there going to be just as much drive by D66 to prevent abortions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'm taking a little distance from what's being said about speed. We've been working on this subject for years. It has been indescribable for D66 for years that we are taking away women's autonomy and self-determination by this obligation in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	Again, I am not getting an answer to my question. I'm just asking: is the prevention of abortions going to get as much attention from D66, at as much speed as what's ahead now? I don't need to hear all kinds of evasive things. Just "yes" or "no" is enough as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	You keep telling me we're gonna push this through. We've been talking about this for years. And we support what is in the coalition agreement. So you will be able to see the same commitment from us here in the Chamber on this type of important subject as the commitment we now have to this proposal on the mandatory period of reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	Finally, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	So I can assume that within a very short period of time that other proposal to drive D66 will also be dealt with here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	You can assume that D66 will do everything in its power to implement the programme we agreed with each other in the coalition agreement and its objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	I thank Mrs Paulusma for her input. So you say: the woman decides, not the state. I would like to say earlier: the parents decide. But take D66's earlier initiative proposal on organ donations. Here comes, I believe, de facto from the fact that organs are the property of the State, unless you decide otherwise? 'Cause that's what you have to report. Isn't that paternalistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	Both in this initiative proposal and in the other initiative proposal, to which you refer, of my highly valued former colleague, your freedom of choice is paramount. It's leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	I am concerned here with paternalism. Of course, the other initiative proposal is not marked with 'unknown'. No, the State basically assumes that the organs of the State are. That's the choice the State's actually making for you. The organs belong to the State, unless you decide otherwise. So you have to make your own choice there. Some kind of pre-choice is already being made. Of course, that's the whole idea behind the bill. My question is: isn't that essentially paternalistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	I always find it very handsome how Mr. Van Houwelingen comes up with some kind of conspiracy theory. On this subject, too, he does so. Everything would be state. Both in this initiative proposal and in the other, people can make their own choices. That's far from paternalistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	Of course, this has nothing to do with conspiracy; this is just a question. I'm trying to get you to compare two things. This has nothing to do with conspiracy theories, does it? I'd like to make that right. And I'm not getting clear where you are now, between what's paternalistic and what's not paternalistic. Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	It is always a bit complicated to discuss with the Forum for Democracy. They want to hear the answer they have invented in their own minds on the question they have asked. But that's not how the debate works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	I would first like to give something to D66, but also to the other parties who are in favour of this proposal. Then I'll ask my question right away. I think a jubilee mood is a little inappropriate here. They're happy, it's gonna be a party. This is gonna be in the media soon. So I would really like to give these parties some modesty in this proposal. Because no matter how you turn it or turn it around, we're talking about a living being that just... yeah, gets taken away; I'll just say it harshly. Whether you agree or disagree, I don't judge. But the fact is, that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	No, this is not my question. My specific question is as follows. Mrs Paulusma said that women are entitled to professional help and tailor-made work. Don't they get it now? Isn't that settled by the current legal deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	I don't think the word "jubilee" was a word I used. I think that word belonged to another colleague. I'm really happy. We are going to make sure that women can make their own choices in their own lives. And yes, there is customization and there is good care. And that care is incredibly professional. I'm also extremely proud of our abortion care. But we want to remove the mandatory part of the period of reflection from the law, which does not do justice to autonomy and the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	I can only respond to it by saying that it hurts me that Mrs Paulusma says: "I am happy..." I can imagine that Mrs Paulusma and other parties are happy with this law, but I am a bit upset about it myself. Look, I have two sons of my own. I had a 16-week ultrasound made of one of my sons and I just see a full-grown baby there. So again the question of whether you want to take it into account, later in the media, that a little bit of modesty is shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm kind of looking for the question. If I may interpret it in such a way that this is a subject that you deal with very carefully, you will certainly find me at your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	This is a difficult subject, which is considered differently. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing this tonight and that we are hearing different opinions. I hear you say a few times that we should be proud that we have a careful practice in the Netherlands, that abortion care is well organised. That is indeed clear from the evaluations, and we should be grateful for that. I also hear you say a few times: "Boss in your own belly. The woman decides, and that patronage has to be taken off. It really is that woman's autonomy." But I do not think that is the question before us. We do not enter into the choice that the woman ultimately makes. That's not the point at all. In the end, the question is whether you should include a certain guarantee. That's what we disagree on, I think. But my question is about practice. You indicate that you want to go to that flexible period. But how do you see that working in practice? Suppose the woman and the doctor disagree or that there is a sense of non-fluff and the woman still wants to go through with it, how is the guarantee in practice that this is not an empty shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	A very good question, too. I think it is always good to stay focused on how care is provided. But that is completely outside the discussion for me whether something should be compulsory. That's what we're dealing with tonight. Do women have to be sent home to think for another five days about a decision taken in a very professional relationship between doctor and woman? And research shows that often a whole route has preceded that. It's not a decision today or tomorrow. I don't want to undermine that at all. That's good care, too. It is only the mandatory nature, after we have said that care must comply with this standard, that you still have to think for five more days and that we want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma a question about this interpretation after that discussion, if a doctor may have doubts, but also if he does not. It's about a young woman, for example. We know that it is young women who are more sensitive to the influence of family or their partner and that if they themselves have doubts but are sent, it may cause psychosocial damage at the time when they would actually make such a decision too soon. What is Mrs Paulusma's view of the implementation of this deadline, because the deadline remains in the law, it only becomes flexible, and that precisely these aspects are properly addressed? In what way does she want to test it, so that we could say to each other later that it happened in a careful way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thanks for the question. I think there's two things going on. In every care setting we ask professionals to pay attention to doubts, to the context where people come from, to follow their sense of non-flavor, that they may contact someone again. It is obvious to me what every professional in the care should do. That's what people are trained for. That's how our care works, too. You're talking about your concerns about that compelling character. No research has shown that this is precisely the obligation that helps that young woman in that doubt or in that difficult situation. If a woman wants to think longer or if a doctor says it's okay that a little extra time is taken, then there must be room for that. But no research has shown that this obligation to that fragile situation is of any benefit. We're gonna have to get rid of that as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	I can deal with the differences, but first of all I just want to say that I agree with Mrs Paulusma that there are very few investigations. When I looked for it, I actually found it limited in view of the Dutch situation: what exactly are women's motivations and what harm do they or do they suffer in that process? That process is very intense, for every woman; I really do not want to stand in the way of it or talk about it easily. That is precisely why I think it is so important: if this law were to reach a majority, I can also look around and count, please keep an eye on what this means for vulnerable young women who can also be under family pressure, which makes it difficult for them to talk about this and not have enough of this conversation. In fact, this is already not being taken into account. I would therefore like to challenge D66 to extend the freedom of choice of these women even further. That might also require you to think about how to fill in that time. This applies to the care professional who sits there, but perhaps also to the contact with the general practitioner and aftercare. So, please, let's make sure that we don't know enough about young women who are vulnerable; we don't really know enough about them here; we don't really have enough insight into "young women" to really increase choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	I don't quite know if I got a question exactly. I think it was more of a call. I would like to return to Mrs Bikker that I think that we should always exercise this care care care in the broadest sense. The professional must always have a careful conversation in the relationship with the person sitting on the other side of the table. This applies not only to abortion, but to all the care provided. But this mandatory nature has no added value, and that is what research shows. It is always good to investigate how care is provided, but that is not only true for abortion care. This applies to the whole range in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma. You're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	You may go. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also speak on behalf of Eva van Esch of the Party for Animals. She can't be here tonight. Mr. Chairman. I grew up in a rural community in the east of the country. There we rarely talked about sexuality, abortion or contraception. There was always some kind of feeling of embarrassment, like you weren't supposed to talk about those kinds of subjects, like sexuality wasn't supposed to exist either. From that background, I would like to thank the authors for writing this law and for filing it and for discussing it tonight. Thank you, of course, to Mrs Dijkstra, who stood in the back. Because we need to talk about these issues. We need to talk about things that are just part of life and that are happening all around us. Let us make it more discussable and let us make good legislation and regulations to help people. So thank you once again to my fellow Members, because they are not diving on difficult issues, because that is the easiest thing to do here, but make things negotiable. Despite sometimes violent reactions, we hope to have a very good discussion on this subject tonight. Mr. Chairman. I'm delivering our input along three lines. Firstly, that is the guarantee of careful decision-making, because it is our job as a Chamber to test laws for effectiveness and proportionality, but also, of course, for their impact in practice. Secondly, it concerns the autonomy of women and, thirdly, the position of the doctor in the process. Mr. Chairman. I found it interesting, of course, to read the law, but also to get some background information on the implementation of this law in the explanatory memorandum. In it I read that in 1911 abortion was made punishable by an addition to the Law of Morality. I found that interesting background information. But perhaps more interesting is what sometimes is not literally on paper, namely the implication that the criminality of abortion came back into the law of vice, a law which "had the aim of combating sexual immorality and curbing playfulness." This, of course, says everything about how things like abortion and unwanted pregnancy were looked at: as if it had something to do with morality. Unfortunately, however, history often sounds in the present and we also see a double morale in our current society in the field of sexuality, while, as I said earlier, the.... is simply part of our society, and while the importance of providing good information about preventing unwanted pregnancies, but also discovering and learning to indicate your limits, is more important than ever. I think that has been underlined once again in recent weeks. Mr. Chairman. Abortion is not a frivolous choice, both mentally and physically. And if a woman has made that choice, then women often have to deal with stigmatisation, they are harassed at abortion clinics and sometimes they are called murderers. I want to remove two misunderstandings about this law. First of all, abortion is always done with the utmost care. Secondly, the period of reflection will not lapse, but the five-day deadline will be abolished. This law ensures that the woman agrees with the doctor how long that period of reflection is. It also makes sense that you talk about that together, because situations are different. It is good that there is not a standard term, but that it really looks at what suits the woman and the choice of the woman. Mr. Chairman. Since 1984 we have known that five days of compulsory consultation do not add anything; it is actually just a way of making abortion more difficult. That is because there have always been parties here in this Chamber who are against the right to choose, and women who do make that choice must suffer. But that is actually the only real effect of that period of reflection. It hurts women. He puts women away as beings who cannot make their own choices, for which the legislator has to make a choice. We have known that since 1984; that is perhaps the sad part. And if we didn't know it then, it became clear again at the first review of the law in 2005. The second evaluation, which was two years ago, again showed that the mandatory nature of the period of reflection does not actually have any advantages. It doesn't make for a more thoughtful choice, but it's mostly annoying and it's patronizing for women. This is in line with the point I wanted to make about sound legislation. For this is an example of a process in which the Chamber has not properly carried out its core task. We need to check legislation for its usefulness and necessity, and if legislation is not useful but harmful, then we need to intervene. That didn't happen. The 2005 recommendation was clear, and it was a recommendation, and I am talking about 2005, eh; that was a long time ago when already: let go of that mandatory five days and move on to a more flexible period of reflection, so that every woman gets exactly as much time as she needs. No cabinet has since taken the initiative to abolish that period of reflection. Those who do here have two questions. The first question is: are there any other medical procedures with a period of reflection? And the second question is, what are the five days in the law actually based on? Mr President, yes, this is a fairly logical moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	That's what Mrs. Bikker thinks. Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask a question from Mr van GroenLinks. From her perspective, I think she has outlined the history of this law, as well as the period of reflection. But when I read it back in those 1984 Acts, I think that neither of us were even in kindergarten at that time, I have the impression that there was also a search for a balance. That is, on the one hand, the autonomy of women, who can choose for themselves. And so it was celebrated by many at the time; look, not in my political movement, but certainly in yours, I think. But it is also the value of unborn life, and of life that grows. I would like to ask GroenLinks how she weighs that balance in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	Perhaps it is right first of all to point out that this law is primarily about the period of reflection and whether or not the mandatory five-day period should be maintained. The authors say that this is harmful. The authors say that we agree with them that it is better to abolish this mandatory period of reflection and to have a full discussion between women and doctors and to make that choice together. Of course, that's the law. Mrs Bikker asks about the balance between unborn life and the right of women. But abortion legislation is, of course, already surrounded by very strict directives on when abortion should and should not be carried out. In my speech, I will also go into how this happens and how these talks with the doctor take place. But there is already a very careful consideration. That is why we want to support this law that has been tabled today. In fact, we think that is what we read in the explanatory statement of the law, that it only makes the law better on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld for this answer, but I am still looking forward to the following. At that time it was chosen precisely for that period of reflection, so that the value of unborn life was also weighed. I think the views differ on that, too. It has already been referred to, but you can also see that a child is growing and in the image is becoming more and more human. Somewhere it is a quest: does only a mother decide how to weigh it, or is that also an independent value, which you have to bear in mind in this decision? There is also another life growing, which also has autonomy somewhere in itself. So I'm very curious, just from that autonomous thinking, how GroenLinks and Mrs Westerveld look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	I think I can give a very clear answer to that: in the end, the woman determines that. That's not up to the legislator. That's what the woman ultimately decides. That is, of course, also happening in conversations at the moment. That happens very carefully. Abortion isn't just something someone thinks lightly about. In the end, however, it is always up to the woman to decide whether or not she wants an abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	I need to ask you one question about that. We're restricting abortion here, aren't we? For example, you can't have an abortion at 40 weeks. There are restrictions. That's not just up to the woman. You have to acknowledge that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	That's right. We have indeed agreed on this. Those appointments are very tight. But right in there, the woman determines whether or not she has an abortion. You're right. You can't do that at 40 weeks. It looks at the viability of a child, of an unborn fruit. When is that gonna be viable? That is, of course, where the limit is set. That's what medical science has been talking about. We have indeed made very careful laws on this in the Chamber. But when we discuss with each other that abortion legislation is there, when we say that abortion is allowed in the Netherlands, but with very strict conditions, it is ultimately up to the woman to decide. My next block is about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	In that sense, it is a very nice transition. I want to talk about the woman's position. I want to talk about "boss in his own belly." That's an incredibly powerful slogan. It's one of the most powerful slogans I've ever heard. Yet you are not quite that in the Netherlands. All too often other people, sometimes strangers, think they're the boss of your belly. All too often there are anti-abortion clubs at clinics that harass women and interfere with a personal, but also a long fought choice, without asking for it. A person undergoing abortion often has to travel far in order to exercise the right to that choice. Then there is a mandatory five-day period of reflection. Then they're being harassed at clinics. I find that regrettable, because if we say in the Netherlands that you can make the choice, then we must also trust that that choice can be made, that you are autonomous and that you can make your own decision. I would like to ask the authors whether more can be done to support women in making this choice. Mr. Chairman. Of course, good caregivers are also needed for this good support. We have them in the Netherlands. Both evaluations show that women are very satisfied with the care provided by Dutch abortion doctors. Those doctors aren't just gonna go on abortion. They talk to the women. They're listening. They provide information on the different options when necessary. They're also trying to find out whether or not a woman is being forced. But above all, they have to make sure that the woman wants it. It is only when this proves that abortion is the right choice that you can proceed to abortion. Mr. Chairman. If we trust the Dutch abortion doctors to carry out their work professionally and carefully, there is no need for a mandatory fixed period of reflection. Because a health care provider doesn't go to abortion until the health care provider knows the woman really wants to. I say this because it sometimes seems as if some people in the Netherlands think you can get abortion on order, that you just do it: you go to a clinic and make an appointment, and ready. But that is absolutely not the case. If you think this, you have no idea of the good and careful work that abortion doctors do in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I told you, when making a choice about abortion, you also need to think about it carefully and that it is being discussed carefully. Fortunately, that's already happening with the conversations in those clinics, but fortunately, here in the Chamber tonight as well. I would ask the initiators to tell us a little bit more about the drafting of the bill. I noticed that in the first version of the law it was stated that the doctor and the woman could set a period of reflection together. This also means that you do not necessarily have to set such a period of reflection. The Council of State made a number of comments. The initiators responded to this, as is the case with a careful legislative process. The law has been adapted to this, so that doctors and women still have to look together to see how much time is needed for an informed decision. I would also like to ask the initiators: to what extent does the time there count, so before a woman visits the doctor? In other words, can this period also take effect retroactively, or will it count only from the time of the doctor's visit? Mr President, I will conclude. In my introduction, I indicated how important it is to talk to each other, to make difficult topics discussable. These are subjects that sometimes involve a lot of embarrassment. That's actually really weird, because it's just part of life. This dialogue also needs to be conducted with society and should include good sexual education. We know from national and international research that this helps to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Good information also helps to make the right choices, to discover your borders and, above all, to identify what those borders are now. But in a society like ours, it should also be self-evident not to regard contraception as a primary problem of a woman, but to feel jointly responsible for it. My question is: how do the proposers see this? Do they agree with GroenLinks that it can help to prevent unwanted pregnancies, if everyone can just get contraceptives? Do they agree with GroenLinks that this should actually be just a public provision and should come back to our basic package? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. Deborah and Bonicia. I spoke to them in preparation for this debate. Their stories touched me. Both of them got pregnant unexpectedly and unintentionally. What do you do if you want to keep your baby yourself, but you're only 18 years old and urge family members to opt for abortion? What do you do when you're 38 years old, you don't have a partner and you really don't want a child? At the abortion clinic, they both saw the ultrasound. The realization penetrated them: wow, there is life in me. They both never came back to that clinic. Mr. Chairman. These stories by Deborah and Bonicia hide the experiences of hundreds, of thousands of women, because every year more than 30,000 abortions take place in the Netherlands. I am convinced that this is something I would like to stress too, and I would like to say very clearly that no woman decides to do so lightly. At the same time, it is important to be honest about the raw reality behind this cold figure. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators outline the picture of autonomous, self-employed women, who would be patronized by the period of reflection, but I wonder to what extent this picture corresponds to reality. According to Fiom, one in ten women indicates that abortion was not her choice. And one in five women had the feeling that they were largely directed towards the choice of abortion by people around her, such as a partner or family. We know that a large part of the doubting women do not express their doubts during the conversation at the abortion clinic itself. A lot of women don't show up for the follow-up. Think of Bonicia and Deborah, whom I just mentioned. The SGP fears that those women, who can benefit most from the fixed period of reflection, will suffer from their abolition. Abortion must be voluntary and deliberate. My question is: what protection does this bill offer women in a vulnerable position? That's the question I'm asking the initiators. I would like to ask the Minister: what are abortion clinics currently doing to highlight urge and compulsion? An informed choice also requires a fair discussion of possible alternatives to abortion, such as support for the delivery of pregnancy and the raising of the child, childbirth under secrecy, foster care and adoption. Doctors often do not explicitly express these alternatives in conversations. Should this not be compulsory, especially now that it is possible to have an abortion immediately after the decision-making meeting? Mr. Chairman. The initiative law relies to a large extent on the recommendation from the latest evaluation of the abortion law to remove the period of reflection. Unfortunately, the legal evaluation gives a one-sided picture of the current abortion practice in the Netherlands, because experience of women considering or undergoing abortion is hardly covered in this evaluation. During the period covered by the legislative review, hundreds of thousands of abortions took place and less than 60 women, less than 60 of those hundreds of thousands, were willing to fill in a questionnaire. They were selected for this by the abortion clinics themselves. With only six of these women there was an in-depth conversation. No studies have been carried out on women who decided to carry out their pregnancy and no questions have been asked as to what women themselves think of the period of reflection. The researchers admit that the results of the practical research are partly unusable and should at least be interpreted with great caution. It is incomprehensible that they dare to draw the conclusion that the abortion law is working well in general and that they advise to delete the fixed period of reflection. My question to the initiators is whether they recognise that the empirical justification of the bill before us is flimsy. Back then, Minister Van Ark has promised that there will be a follow-up study on the experiences of women in abortion. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal, the Council of State points out that the protection of unborn life, which is one of the two pillars of the current abortion law, is not or hardly being addressed. The initiators replied that they in no way wish to give rise to the suggestion that this does not attach any importance to the protection of unborn life. Mr. Chairman. I invite them here in this Chamber to say what is the value of unborn life for them and why they would like to protect it. Do they recognise that their bill undermines the protection of this unborn life? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states that the aim is to reduce abortions. My question is: how does this initiative law relate to this? That is what I am asking the Minister and the initiators. It can't be that own-initiative legislation undermines policies that you've adopted together, can it? Now that this initiative law is being speeded up, it is obvious that the government is going to make enormous haste with all the good proposals in the coalition agreement. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. A mandatory period of reflection is not unusual in the medical world. For example, in the case of cosmetic treatment or surgery. For cosmetic treatments with an average medical risk, a mandatory reflection period of at least one day shall apply. There is a mandatory reflection period of at least one week for the more complex procedures performed under complete anesthesia. A cosmetic procedure, like an abortion, is irreversible. But the big difference with abortion is, of course, that it involves not just one but two human lives: that of women and that of unborn life that is in her. My question is what the proposers think is that, if a woman wants a nose job, she will soon have to deal with stricter rules than if she wants to end unborn life in her. And why didn't they choose to set the minimum period of thought for abortion on at least one day? Why has there not been a minimum period of thought for late abortions? Can't you lie awake about it for one night? That's my question. Mr. Chairman. If this initiative law gets a majority, and unfortunately it does, this will be the first amendment to the abortion law since it came into force, indeed in the 1980s. The enthusiasm with which this is associated hurts me. It makes me sad, too. It is my belief that every human life is precious and valuable, because it is made wonderfully and in God's image. Protection of life must not depend on what it looks like or what it may or may not be capable of. I therefore want to stand for the protection of unborn life. I also want to stand right next to and behind women and girls who are facing unintended pregnancy. In preparing for this debate, someone pointed out to me a statement by the philosopher Nietzsche. Very sharply he dissected the spirit of time. Very bitter was his analysis. He said: our entire European culture has been heading for something like a catastrophe for a long time with a torturing tension that grows every decade. Uncomfortable. By force. At raging speed, like a stream that wants to go to its end point and doesn't sing anymore. He's afraid of thinking. Those last words stuck with me: a culture that no longer thrives and is afraid to reflect. A society that no longer dares to look in the mirror. I challenge myself and the proposers to do so. What's the problem with such a decision about emerging life? What's the problem with taking a seat? Is it really too much to ask for such a far-reaching and definitive decision to consider something irreversible like abortion? Finally, Mr President. The authors say that this proposal is for women to come forward. The SGP is determined to stand up for women and children. I say to the authors: if you say that you want to stand up for women, do you realize that this issue is often about women who are very vulnerable and alone? Do they not therefore need others to surround them? First of all, men and fathers, who do not run away from pregnancy, but who know and show responsibility for mother and child. Don't we need families that don't throw women away, just help them and embrace them? Don't we need a society that cherishes life and doesn't break it down? Let all our efforts be directed towards this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	It is nice that Mr Stoffer also quotes Nietzsche. Nietzsche also said things that, in my opinion, make the SGP less enthusiastic, such as "Gott is up to," by which he meant that God has been replaced by other entities. Anyway, I will not have a discussion with Mr Stoffer about Nietzsche, but about this law. The SGP is, of course, also a party that always looks at whether legislation is sound, whether the justification is correct and whether the legislation does what it should do and is applicable in practice. This law, of course, is not about abolishing a period of reflection, but about the five-day obligation. I would like to ask Mr Stoffer the following. If we know from assessments of the law that the mandatory five-day period does not do what it should do and that it is replaced by agreements between the woman and the doctor, why is Mr Stoffer so critical of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	Maybe the first. I don't appreciate everything about Nietzsche, but some things do. That's like GroenLinks. I don't appreciate everything, but some things do. Coming back to that question. I have deliberately quoted the examples I have just quoted, from Deborah and the other lady I mentioned. They indicated: if it had been with us directly at that time, then the chances would have been very high that the children were one now almost 10 and the other five had not been there. I think there are a lot more examples like that. I haven't spoken to him in the last few days. Even if it is only one human life, one child, I still say that such a period of reflection is really very valuable and sensible. There it is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	I would like to ask Mr Stoffer: is this law not correct? This law says we're getting rid of that five-day obligation, but we're making an agreement between the wife and the doctor. Maybe Deborah needed seven days. That could have been agreed in that conversation. She would have had a little longer time to think. I think what Mr Stoffer is saying is exactly what the proposers intend to do with this law and whatever this law is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's true if you assume a woman who is autonomous and is very capable of making her own decisions. But I have mentioned these examples. I also quoted Bonicia. She was 18 years old and under pressure from her family. By the way, that family is very happy with that baby now. But if that had been at the time, the chances would have been very high that she had made that choice at the time. That would have been a choice she had said afterwards: not. It will be fine, no doubt, if you look at it very objectively in certain cases completely no longer change. When you're autonomous, independent, and so on, this doesn't do anything. I don't look at abortion like Mrs Westerveld. I don't think we're having a discussion about that. This is what I'm talking about. Even if it's just one lifetime in a period of ten years for all I care, I still say it's valuable. Then we saved one human life. That is why I say: for the women who are weak, who have no people around them who help them, support them and so on, it can fall the other way round after seeing the echo. That's all I care about. That is why I say that this period of reflection should remain as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	I would like to say to Mr Stoffer: isn't that what the doctor is for? When we look at the evaluation, but also at what comes back from women themselves, we see that the conversation with the doctor is incredibly valuable. The woman is being listened to. The circumstances are being considered. Together, very good agreements are made to reach the best decision. I think that's the value of this bill. It places much more emphasis on making the best decision by the woman, together with the doctor, instead of the legislator saying: bam, five days, so we lay it down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	If you go there with a partner, a mother and so on, and they say "if you don't have an abortion, I'm gone" or so on, then of course there's a whole stretch ahead of it. If you're sitting there as a young girl, you have a very difficult situation. A doctor can't always judge that. As far as I am concerned, I say: take care of the uncertain, think about it. My question to the initiators was not for nothing: why not at least one day? I want to keep those five in, but why not at least some kind of lower limit, so you'll be up one night for all I care? Is that too much to ask? It is about a hugely far-reaching decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	There are still a number of interruptions. First Mrs Paulusma, D66, then Mrs Hermans, VVD, and then Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	I heard Mr Stoffer say a number of times: incomprehensible. I had that word in my head when I listened to Mr Stoffer. I fully share the view that we should help women when they are in a weak position. But what I find incomprehensible is that you're acting like that's the biggest group. You pretend that the largest group of women who opt for abortion is not autonomous, cannot make that choice themselves. You say that women benefit from this mandatory period of reflection, while we see from research that women do not allow this to be taken into account at all in their decision. That decision has already been made, precisely because we have such good help and because women think long and carefully about it. That mandatory period of reflection is damaging. You are mirroring a whole other world, which is not research evidence, nor is it confirmed by a lot of other women who have participated in research and who you do not mention. I find it incomprehensible. And then you say to women, "Sleep it up a little uncomfortable for a night." I would like to ask you the same thing. How much trouble is it to let women make their own choices and that you might sleep a little less easily on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	It's not about me. I'm interested in the kids being taken away while there's potential for life. I'd like to put that first. I hear Mrs Paulusma talking about "the woman." That's wonderful, but I'm talking about the wife and the child. I'm interested in those kids who potentially have a beautiful, thriving life ahead of them. My ideal is that there is no abortion, that this law just becomes a dead letter and that no one gets to it unless a woman's life is in danger. But that you can't at least think about such a decision... I get it from the perspective that women are autonomous, but you're talking about two lives here. That's what's bothering me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	I do not think you are concerned at all with the woman and the child, because every study shows that this mandatory period of reflection does not affect the decision at all. What we are talking about tonight is that someone else wants to impose on a woman that she has to sit on the couch for another five days, because politics thinks that is necessary. It's about wanting to impose something out of ideology, not wife and child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	One. I just said a few words about the numbers in the studies. They're very minimal. I would like to get a response from the proposers. Then the second. I have put forward two examples here, in which this period of reflection has had an effect. For me, every life is one. Even if it is only one, that period of reflection, as far as I am concerned, is something that we really need to keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	It is well known that we have different views on this matter. I recognize and respect that, too. I do have a problem with something I hear in Mr Stoffer's words. I'm gonna ask a question to make sure I hear that right. On the one hand, I hear him say, in response to a number of interruptions, that we are going from five days to one day. No, we're not going to one day. We are going to go to a period where women can think about and what the women agree on with the doctor. But I also heard Mr Stoffer say in his speech that in the coalition agreement we agreed to reduce the number of abortions and that this law is at odds with that. What does Mr Stoffer say about the quality of care and about the quality of abortion care in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	These are a lot of assumptions, which I don't think I put it exactly. We don't go from five days to one. That's right. I'd rather not have this whole law. That's one. The second is that I asked if you wouldn't put at least a one-day bottom in it. I'd like to have a reflection on that. I didn't say anything else about the care. It will undoubtedly be good, but I do not want this concern at all. I think I've said enough about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	It is about caring for and supporting a woman who comes to an abortion clinic or to the general practitioner with this complicated issue. It never goes lightly, you said it was right. The conversation that then arises between wife and GP or wife and doctor of the abortion clinic is a careful process. It already is, and it will remain. The suggestion you raised that this initiative proposal runs counter to what is also contained in the coalition agreement, namely reducing the number of abortions, suggests that this careful process in which doctors and women play a part together, does not take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	Complicated question, but I would have preferred to see the order backwards: first see if you can reduce it and then go back to the term. By the way, I'd rather not have that whole law, then you don't have that whole term either. I'd say start with the appearance and then see if you can change this law. We don't agree on that order, because our ideology is so far apart that we're never gonna get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr Stoffer and I, the SGP and my party, the Labour Party, are miles apart when it comes to our views on women's right to self-determination and on this law. We have had this debate many times, and we can do it again, but I think this is just a fact. I would like to invite Mr Stoffer to look at the proposal before us from a different perspective. A second evaluation was carried out; an evaluation was also carried out in 2005. My conclusion based on these findings is that the recommendation from that evaluation to abolish the mandatory period of reflection was motivated by improving the care of women who come to an abortion clinic or to a general practitioner. The evaluation states that, in some cases, the mandatory period of reflection requires a more severe intervention than might have been necessary if there were not to be such a mandatory period of reflection. I would ask Mr Stoffer to reflect on that. I would ask him, if I may, to take it into account that this bill may also lead to some women thinking for maybe two days, but others perhaps eight, ten or eleven days. This will not only increase women's freedom of choice, but also improve the quality of abortion care and assistance in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	I don't think we're gonna get together here either. I have, of course, looked at this from all perspectives. I have just quoted a few examples of women who were weak. They are not anymore, because they are strong women, but at that time they were in a very weak position as strong women. It could only have been so, so they both indicated, that if they had had had the choice of zero days thought-out period, then at that time the abortion had been committed. That didn't happen because of the thought-out period. I'd love to hold on to those five days. That's clear, too. Then a doctor can't make an assessment and think: I just saw it differently. Because of course you can: you look in people's psyche. So no, I'd rather not have that whole law anymore, but we're not talking about that right now. If you look at this proposal for a second, I say, let's not do this, but let's just keep a clear thought-out period. Of course, one day can bring it to a heavier procedure, but that's how it is. Then maybe it should have been a day earlier. My ideal isn't an intervention at all. Then you look at it from a completely different perspective. My question to Mrs Ploumen is to look at it from that perspective too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mrs Ploumen will get her input soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	I regret, however, that Mr Stoffer does not really answer my question. Again, we disagree for miles. We're not gonna get together either. That's clear. But I was looking for the perspective of caring for women, because I know that the SGP also attaches great care. That is one of the key points of this evaluation. In my turn, I find it poignant that Mr Stoffer accepts that this legal period of reflection should lead to tougher and more burdensome action than if there were no such time limit. For women who may wish to have another conversation in which doctors are trained or for women who would like to think for a few more days, this law increases those possibilities rather than the law narrows them down. I would think, also from the perspective of Mr Stoffer and his party, that this could be an improvement in current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	There wasn't a huge question in it, but maybe it was hidden somewhere. Of course there are certain cases where you think: if it happens anyway, and if you look at it technically, it might be a less severe procedure. I can see that, too. But my ideal is that from that period of thought, you don't do it. If you work from that ideal, you have a completely different perspective. So that's not where we're gonna hit each other. But technically, of course, I can understand that. But my perspective, my ideal, what I'd like to go to is so different, I can't go along with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	Finally, I have one question, from the perspective that Mr Stoffer also has, namely the prevention of abortions. Then why doesn't his party support us in providing free contraception for everyone? Wouldn't that be a good way to do that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	No. We are not a party that says: let the government take care of everything. In that respect, you should not move very much into the public domain. In that respect, as far as we are concerned, you have to keep a lot of things in the private domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	I have a question for Mr Stoffer. I think, despite the fact that we have a different view of the world, I still understand his point. But I would like to make another point. On that point, I do not hear the SGP very much. Women who are in a plighted position and for whom five days means an extra ballast. Women who have been raped. Women for whom it's hard to come to an abortion clinic. Women who come here from abroad. Those women have been on it for five days before they see a doctor and they want to get rid of it. For them, that pregnancy is just extremely painful. I know you look differently at life in the belly than many other parties here. However, I would ask you to look from the point of view of these women and try, if possible, to let go of your own view and to see that those five days are so traumatic for those women. Volt, for example, is looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	I can understand it very well. These are, especially when you talk about rape, very traumatic experiences. But even so, our ideal is for us to say the following. Firstly, it is a terrible situation. You're gonna have to deal with the killer hard and take care of the people who it's about. But that's what life comes from. I understand that that is a very uncomfortable situation, but I would say: let's always go around women, whatever the situation the abortion is, and see if we can offer alternatives. It is very often the case that there are financial conditions and so on in the case of abortions. I would very much like to see us bet more on that. That is also in the coalition agreement; hence my earlier interruptions towards D66 to speed it up. I would therefore like to put all the alternatives around it, so that a child, in any situation, has a good perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	However, this is not entirely an answer to the question. I very much agree that we can better organise society in cases where pregnancy can become desirable. The fact remains that the ideal that you and I share, perhaps from a different ideology and conception of society, is not always present. A rapist isn't always a stranger. It's also often the partner. It happens very often that the woman can secretly go to the doctor for a short while and ask for this sort of thing. For those women, my heart cry is real that you let go of your ideal image, also looks at the poignant cases in which the women are standing with their backs against the wall and that you realize that they have really little position because of the relationship they are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	I know that. I think that's a bigger problem. In this respect, we need to focus on making up for relationships and really helping women. But that is far wider than the reflection period we are discussing today, and much wider at all than the abortion issue. We should also really do something about the position of women who are so difficult. Yeah, I agree. But I don't want to inoculate on that: let's make it easier to abort a child. I also look at the child's perspective. That could just be a very nice perspective in this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	Finally, yes. I think you look a little too optimistic about this. I think that the solutions you have in mind, wherever I stand behind, are not even one-two-three. We don't even have one-two-three all women financially independent and in a better marriage. We must therefore, in the short term, simply acknowledge that there are a lot of women here, with different backgrounds, who really benefit from the disappearance of these five days. I would really like to ask you to take this into account in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'll take everything into account. I am the very first to say, with difficulty and sorrow, that we live in a broken world. That fact is here and it never goes away. We will have to do our utmost to be as good as possible for every human being. But I just can't change my worldview and my image of children, women, men and families. That's one of the ways I am and the way I am. That's why my contribution is as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the authors. Thanks also to Mrs Dijkstra, because Volt is very pleased with this bill. Volt is therefore going to vote in favour. I don't really need six minutes to say that either, but I do need time to say other things. I want to go back in time first. For this I quote from the 1984 dissertation of now gynecologist-oncologist professor Marian Mourits. I quote: "The fact that women's decision-making takes place without obligation has been demonstrated many times in extensive empirical research, as well as in my research. Nothing factually indicates that in the Netherlands abortion situation there is a condition that requires correction by means of a stricter law. Yet that law has been passed. Apart from misrecognizing the decision-making skills of the woman in question, the new Waz, Act of Abruption pregnancy, is a misconception of the method in the clinics and the intentions and expertise of the employees of abortion clinics. The fact that the authors of the law are poorly aware of the state of play in the clinics is reflected, inter alia, in the content of Article 3, in the period of reflection." Because how we look at abortion, how we define abortion by including it in the Code of Criminal Law, how we provide contraception, is also how we see women. First, as women, we had to prove that we were able to participate politically. Some suffragettes have even had to fight that with their lives. After that, we had to fight to be seen as financially competent. Then we had to fight again for contraception. And now the struggle for our uterus and whether or not we want to carry out a pregnancy. And that while it's our uterus and so we decide. A woman has already decided whether or not she wants the pregnancy before she comes to the doctor. She doesn't need a doctor for that, and she doesn't need five days. Or in the words of Mrs Ploumen: she decides. But the battle isn't over yet. This is just the next hurdle that has been taken, and as far as Volt is concerned a few more steps fit this hurdle. Abortion is deleted from the Code of Criminal Law. The abortion pill may be prescribed by the general practitioner. And all contraception is included in the basic package for all women, especially since half of all abortions in the Netherlands are due to failing or missing contraception. I would like a response from the Minister. I would also like to call on the Chamber to work together on this issue, as has been done with this bill. Hopefully these hurdles can be resolved. But there are also issues outside the Chamber that we need to settle. As an example, I would like to refer to the debate between Ségolène Royal and Nicolas Sarkozy in 2007. Royal stands up for children with disabilities. Royal argues, comes with content, but the reply she gets is: calmez-vous. Several times, in fact! Calmez-vous! Then she gets the predicate that she's not fit to be president, because she supposedly can't control her emotions. Royal is touched by her à propos, because instead of her content she is addressed to her form. Royal should have said that he, Sarkozy, dared to cut back on the most vulnerable in their country: children, children with disabilities. It was supposed to be his disqualification and not hers. That was 2007. Fifteen years later, that is what is still often said to women. I was accused yesterday in this Chamber of having to take it easy. Calmez-vous, then. Women get structural assessment and patronization. The word "hysteria" comes from ancient Greek, the word "hystera," which means womb. In the Middle Ages it was thought that hysteria caused the womb to roam the body in search of a child. Not only do I, but with me many women here in the Chamber and beyond, receive such accusations: that they are supposedly hysterical. "Tone policing" is called an ad hominem debate tactic aimed at the so-called emotions of the other. But times have to change. Women no longer want to be judged by the one-sided classic masculine glasses, whatever that may be. The time is right to initiate the change from "protect your daughter" to "educate your son." The time is ripe for women and men to know that sex is meant for common pleasure, and not for the power of one, because power suppresses pleasure and power suppresses the way to speak. Power also suppresses the way to press charges. No, this isn't a hex to the man. I love men, and very objectively I say that I have given birth to the most beautiful man in my life. I love my own 5-year-old little son, who is so incredibly wise and mature with, for example, the fact that he doesn't have a father. I want a world where he feels free. And I think that's only possible if the woman feels free. That's why she decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mr President. This debate is about an intensely difficult subject, because for every woman who is unwantedly pregnant and for every woman who is confronted with the message that it is not good with the baby she expects, for every woman who has ever experienced it, it is intensely sad, unreal and overwhelming, and unfortunately sometimes lonely. Many will be reminded of that moment, even when we are having this debate. It is an intense and overwhelming dilemma that no woman has asked for, but in which they have to look for answers. I would also like to say this at the beginning of this debate: I want to have this debate in the knowledge that sometimes there are dilemmas in a human life that are in fact difficult to lift for a human being. Mr. Chairman. The initiators today propose to delete the five-day period of reflection set in the current Law on Abrupt Pregnancy and replace it with a flexible period, which can be set between the woman and the doctor. The initiators also stated in the reply that that period could fall within the same day. In doing so, the initiators shift to my understanding a balance that has been sought in the current abortion legislation, namely the balance between the autonomy of women, which is also a given in it, and that of the value of unborn life. The period of reflection reflects this. Are five days in there the only answer? No, I don't think so either. But it does show that there is more to women's autonomy, because there is another life at stake, about which questions can also be asked. When does life come into existence? What value do you give to that? Is it only when the parents think it is, or is it an intrinsic value? What rights does this life have? And how is the government supposed to protect that? Mr. Chairman. I think that is very important, also because abortion is possible for up to 24 weeks in our country and the initiators of this legislative proposal do choose to put a lot back on women as well. I would therefore like to ask them whether they can give more words on how they see the protection of the value of unborn life, and also whether they can define more precisely what they mean by the word 'term', which they deliberately leave in the legal text. Is that a period of time, or is that a qualitative change? And who's gonna test that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you. Interrupting Ms Ploumen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	Like Mr Stoffer and I, Mrs Bikker and I have a different perspective on this bill. I would also like to ask her: does she recognise that, with this initiative proposal, the mandatory five-day reflection period will go away, for reasons which the authors consider important, but that in practice it is possible that the period of reflection for women, the time which she herself can take because she herself thinks it is necessary, could be longer than the current five-day period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you to Mrs Ploumen for asking this question. Yes, I see that this bill opts for a flexible period of reflection. Unlike some media, which sometimes only says "abolition." So I certainly see that difference and I just tried to name it. My great concern, and also my quest, is the vision of the proposers and the parties that bear this bill, of how it sounds like the value of that unborn life, including in determining that term. That is why I asked Mrs Westerveld the question earlier: how much do you weigh? She said: I think that's what the mother is about until viability. Well, there is a point for me where I say: I see that differently, also in that quest that I understand very much, and also in that tension field for a woman who is in such a situation. I can feel that tension field. So that's one; I can see that. That is precisely why I referred to the note on the basis of the report. Honestly, that scared me, too. At the end of the note on the report it says: it may also mean that the intervention will take place on the same day. There will always be exceptions that may explain this again, with medical circumstances or deadlines. If that's meant to be, it's different. But it can also mean that the deadline can also be very, very, very short, if the doctor thinks that it has been properly thought out. How do you weigh that balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	We may differ in our understanding of weighing that balance. I believe that weighing that balance is indeed up to the woman. In the conversation with the woman, the doctor will check how she made the weighing. But in the end, the woman is the one who makes the decision. That is why I think it is important that she also has the opportunity to take a longer term if she considers it necessary. Let me now turn to the second question, which I asked Mr Stoffer too. The Christian Union is also a party that values the quality of care; we do not need to have a debate on it. In the evaluation, abortion doctors, abortion care providers say that the quality of care improves when the mandatory five-day reflection period comes off. Can Mrs. Bikker reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	I can certainly reflect on that second question too, because of course I have taken that evaluation very well. And frankly, I am... well, "frightened" here might be the good word. Because we actually do solid assumptions on the basis of a rather small set of data. For example, on pages 85 and 86 of the evaluation, I found that two thirds of the aid workers in the clinics and in hospitals at least think positively about this period of reflection. And even if I look further, I'll come across it, including in Fiom's research. I think Fiom is an institution that we both appreciate. In that Fiom study, I see that 71% of the women who sought help there afterwards found it useful that the period of reflection was there. And this, while there is sometimes talk, also by parties here in the Chamber, of that period of reflection as if it were merely patronizing. I really do not think that this is right for the situation in which these women are currently living. And it doesn't do justice to what women give back. I'd really like to hold that together. That is why I appreciate that Mrs Ploumen also says: the period of reflection may also be longer. But she will understand my concern the other way round, given what is now written in the law and in the note on the report. Then I think: yes, what exactly do you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	I will, of course, say a few things about this in my own term, but I think it is clear that the patronage is not so much in the fact that there is an opportunity to consider you and to speak to a doctor, but in the fact that it is a mandatory period. That's how it's experienced by women. I would also like to point out to Mrs Bikker that this recommendation comes from the most recent review of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. But also in the previous evaluation, from 2005, was that recommendation. Let us say that for me that points to a robustness of opinion over the years that I very much appreciate. I would also like to give this consideration to Mrs Bikker, and I would like to invite her to see it in that way, from the professionalism of aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	I will give you a slightly more detailed answer to that. I see it. And I have heard the stories of women in a certain way, including in medical situations, or in border areas of the nine weeks. I also heard what that means. So I get the idea. But there are two things about that. I read the evaluation and I see that abortion doctors say much more clearly than other aid workers that the period of reflection is less useful or less useful. That's something that makes me think, is that okay? And the second thing that is certainly happening here is that there is almost a clash of fundamental rights or human rights at stake here. It's a woman's quest for autonomy and how her life should now take shape, but of that unborn life I also say it's a value in itself. That is what this period of reflection is expressing to me. That's definitely a search. Is that easy? No. I will never say that, but I think that we are also doing justice to that value.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. So I have great concerns that making the period of reflection flexible can ultimately mean weighing women's autonomy too quickly as the only aspect. This is also evident from the change with colleague Ploumen. Where women with a strong network and a solid basis may not change their choice, I am afraid of the consequences that this will have for many other women. I would like to ask who is most concerned about the period of reflection. Fiom's research on women who sought help online after an abortion, because they had psychosocial complaints, showed that they were just among the women who had experienced pressure from their partner or family. And for a substantial part, precisely that direction and sometimes even coercion were still incriminating even after the end of their decision. Young women often suffer significantly more from these symptoms. That is already the case, under the current law, in which there is a fixed time when the conversation with the general practitioner or with others can be sought. I can see that, too. But are the proposers not afraid that this number may increase even more with their proposal? If not, I would very much like to hear what they are basing that on and how they keep an eye on it. The realization that even now a large group has to do with steering also says something about the autonomy of women. We can pretend that it would always be complete, but that unfortunately does not do the reality justice. We cannot deny that not everyone who is unwantedly pregnant will receive all options with equal acceptance from partner and family. What does this bill mean for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	I agree with Mrs Bikker that the choice of abortion must always be made in full freedom and autonomy and that external pressure is never acceptable. The law under discussion is about whether or not to delete the five-day period of reflection. My question to Mrs Bikker is: those five days could also lead to an increase in external pressure. It is not necessarily said that a longer legal period of reflection also leads to less external pressure. That might as well work the other way around. Does Mrs. Bikker recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	I didn't ask the proposers how they wanted to visualize this for nothing. With that I already point out that I don't have a black-and-white scheme of what the course will be like, but I am very curious how they see it, because I have this concern. When I look at the annual reports, for example from abortion clinics, I also see a significant percentage of no show; that women were the first time and did not come the second time. Exactly how to describe that... too little research has been done to say a lot about it. That also makes me ask these questions here. Are we going to reduce part of a problem with this legislation or is it going to get bigger? I have my strong doubts about that, precisely because if you have longer time, you can also talk to someone else than just the doctor you're seeing at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	Isn't the crucial point much more in the quality of the conversation that takes place between doctors and women and how that conversation is conducted, what goes by in that conversation, than in a quantitative number of days that you would consider for a period of reflection? Isn't it much more about quality than quantity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	Of course, it is always important, just when you have a conversation at such a violent moment, that it is a qualitatively good conversation, let that stand up. I hope every health care professional does the same thing, and that's what I'm assuming. That's one. But even so, especially with these things that affect your life so intensely, which you'll always look back on later, a moment that you take with you in your life, I think it's good to have the time, even if you have a intention, to see if this is a wise decision. Unfortunately it can also be that women are driven through their friend somewhere where they are nicely placed "you're going to do it sister and stuff." Unfortunately, I have that experience from Utrecht. I am concerned that if that happens, it will not be pricked through in a first conversation. That is why I am very curious to see how the proposers respond to this concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	There is another interruption by Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you to Mrs Bikker for her careful speech. For example, we have often had discussions on subjects that are very sensitive. I always appreciate that, too. When preparing for this debate, I read an article in the Dutch daily newspaper of a student pastor who had to have an abortion himself. Let me quote her. She said: "I give every woman who chooses abortion attention and customization. That's different than being sent home with flyers and reflection time." In another piece of that submitted piece she says: "Maybe we can practice a little more in mercy and empathy as women stand for this difficult choice." I wonder how you listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	The appointment to have coffee with this lady is made, or at least, she's on schedule. You can even see that on Twitter; it was not meant to be. No, look, what I think is very important here is this. Actually, that's probably the most true thing. Mrs. Paulusma, I've lived in different places. I'm a representative of the Christian Union. So I lived in Nunspeet and I lived in Utrecht. Those are two totally different places, but I know one thing for sure: wherever you live in the Netherlands, if you are unwanted or unintentionally pregnant, it is extremely complicated to tell your environment and to find a way in. No matter how you feel about the value of unborn life, it's incredibly complicated. I know that even the girls in Kanaleneiland were afraid to come home with that, to their families. So yes, my heart beats just for these women. I'll always reach out and find a way to do them justice. I have also read that article, and it has once again determined for me that it is also good to talk about a pregnancy in the circle where I come with great pleasure, which, unfortunately, is very sad, which is very different from what you would have given everyone or what you would have wanted. At the same time, I still think that there is also a group of women who are more vulnerable and for whom the choice is more complicated than for those who have a close family around them with whom they can more easily exchange views.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	I'm so glad you're going to have coffee. At first, I thought you were pointing at me. That's what I'd like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	You can, too, Mrs Paulusma. Then we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	I'll come back to that piece anyway. I thought it was a very nice call, the call for mercy and empathy. Can you imagine that the mandatory nature of this period of reflection is such adversely affected?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	Of course, I've thought about that. I even thought about that last night; I think this article came online last night. How do I end up weighing that? I think that those five days for a group of women is indeed a complicated time because they know the decision because they have discussed it and because it is a time of waiting alone. But there is also a vulnerable group of women. I would almost say: then I look at the left part of the Chamber for whom not having a home, not having an education or having an income care is a reason to opt for an abortion. At that point, I think that we, as a society, can do so much better. It is precisely for them that this period of reflection can be the moment when help is given, when they find another way. As long as this group of women is there, and a large group has these reasons for abortion, I think it is really important that we take away these reasons for abortion, precisely in view of the lives they carry with them. And then it's a choice. Who's the deadline for this discussion? I think it's for the most vulnerable women. Let us make sure that this is absolutely in a search that this is secured for them. Frankly, I do not think that this bill of law is enough anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Women, too, who are concerned about their livelihoods, their homes and their work, face a difficult dilemma. In the second evaluation of the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy, a small group of women were asked what social reasons they had to terminate pregnancy. That is not a representative group, and this calls on the Minister to better understand this, but it tells me something. 32% of them mention as one of the reasons that they do not have a good living space. 50% say pregnancy or upbringing doesn't go with work or training. We must be realistic: there are often several factors involved in deciding on abortion and different kinds of reasons can accumulate. I think it is important that we choose to increase women's freedom of choice by working on this. That they have the time and space to find out what support options there are, and that this support, whether it is about livelihood, study or living space, is not only on paper, but is actually being implemented by the municipal authorities. This is also the subject of the law, in Article 5 (2). It states that women should be given responsible information on solutions to their emergency situations other than termination of pregnancy. How exactly do the proposers intend to continue to implement this proposal and to make it more appropriate? How does the Minister assess whether appropriate solutions are actually provided? Do we have enough insight into that? And who checks whether this will continue to happen in an appropriate way? Mr. Chairman. I think it is of added value that the woman and the doctor have the time to ensure that external pressure or coercion does not play a role in the decision of the woman, and that a doctor does not have to justify it, but has a time limit that is clear. However, we do know that sometimes general practitioners are not fully aware of the NHG's guidance. How are the effects of this amendment to the law to be monitored? Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution with the intensity of the emergency situation in which the women are involved. And I think we all want to avoid that emergency. Because no matter how you feel about abortion, let's please work very hard to prevent that for as many women and young girls as possible. I therefore call on the Minister to work urgently on the stated goal of the coalition agreement: good care for women and children; reducing the number of abortions; preventing unwanted pregnancies. Can he come forward with a letter before 1 May which states exactly how he intends to deal with it? I ask him to deal with the various age groups and the re-abortions. Of course, there has been talk of prevention and information on contraception, but I would also like to mention the more practical reasons which often still play a role in the choice and in which change is possible, such as housing or training. How can we, as a society, be safe and welcoming for women who are really affected by this? I would ask the Minister to take a broader role in the cabinet, for example with the Minister for Poverty or the Minister for Housing. I also ask the initiators whether they want this bill to contribute to reducing the number of abortions. How can they say anything about that if it is not clear what the starting point is? Would it not be wise to start a pilot at different places to look at the impact of this bill on the quality of decision-making, good aftercare and also the number of repeated abortions? How is the bill evaluated? And do the proposers see the importance of a rigorous evaluation? Mr. Chairman. From old times, the law is less focused on the partner, on the father. Isn't it time we paid attention to that? Isn't it time we talked about men's responsibilities? I'm curious how the proposers feel about that. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The Christian Union Group is opposed to the deletion of the legally compulsory period of reflection. At the same time, we also see in these intense dilemmas that we can work together to reduce the number of abortions and, most importantly, reduce the emergency situations of women who may find themselves in them. I would like to look, even in the years to come, at the breadth of this Chamber, for good steps that will help in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Members in trade union K and, of course, their staff on this initiative law. The drafting of an initiative law is in any case a careful and lengthy process, which precedes many weighings, conversations and thinking and writing. Especially on a sensitive subject like that we are discussing today, it is not so easy to incorporate it into a law that does justice to all insights and feelings. This is also a compliment to Mr Jetten and Mrs Dijkstra, who have both been important in the drafting of this initiative law. For my colleague and co-sponsor Ockje Tellegen, it will be special that she may again defend an initiative on this subject more than 45 years after the Act of Initiative of the VVD and PvdA of 1976. Mr. Chairman. Aborting a pregnancy is a decision that nobody makes lightly. It is usually a deliberate decision that a woman or couple takes after careful consideration. In the same way, I would like to speak on behalf of the VVD today about this legislative amendment. Yes, the right to abort pregnancy is an important achievement for the VVD. That is precisely why we need to deal with it carefully: carefully in protecting unborn life and carefully in helping women in need. The VVD will always assess the law on the balance between these two principles. The initiative proposal before us today seeks to remove the mandatory five-day reflection period. I think it is important to stress that it does not limit in any way that women, caregivers and doctors make a careful decision. No one is deprived of the opportunity to think about this difficult decision for five days, shorter or even longer. There is and remains plenty of room to talk about other solutions, for a doctor to examine whether the decision is taken voluntarily and to discuss in conversation between a woman and a doctor such a period of reflection as is necessary to arrive at an informed and careful decision. In short, to deal in a respectful way with the wishes of women and the protection of unborn life. It is precisely by not focusing on a definite length of time, but on the care with which such a heavy decision is taken, that we contribute to the protection of unborn life. Els Veder, initiator of abortion legislation, said it nicely. Sorry, I have to say: one of the initiators of abortion legislation in the 1970s, together with a colleague from the VVD and two colleagues from the PvdA. She said: "Now the question is how exactly this balance should be made and what exactly should be placed in the scale. I believe, from the bottom of my heart, that this cannot be put into a legal text, because that is different for everyone. Everyone must put the weights in the bowl that count for her and for him." Mr. Chairman. In order to make that informed decision, a five-day reflection period is not necessarily necessary. For some women, the process of thinking will be over when they report to a health care provider. Other women still have to start. They may need 10 more days and want to talk to experts even more extensively and more often. My group believes it is important that there are and remain sufficient safeguards for that care: before, during and after such a difficult decision. But we also see where that mandatory deadline can lead. It may result in women who can only take the decision to terminate pregnancy late, for example for medical reasons, being subjected to unwanted and unnecessary pressure, or other more radical methods being used. Mr. Chairman. The debate on the mandatory reflection period is not today's or yesterday's. Several evaluations of the law have recommended that the five-day reflection period be allowed to lapse. I would like to hear from the authors a further reflection on this. The length of the period of reflection, I repeat, does not say anything about the diligence of the decision. That's the point. That is why my group is looking positively at the legislative amendment before us. We do have some questions. First of all, on the practice. In fact, we can decide to delete the mandatory minimum period of reflection, but how can we ensure that if this law is passed, doctors also comply with this change and have the tools and guidance in their hands to implement it properly? In the light of the opinion of the Council of State, the applicants have also made it very clear that if this initiative law were to come into force, doctors and women would come to a decision-making period together. What's that gonna look like in practice? Is that what they say in a file? Does that mean it's definitely fixed? Or, of course, with due regard for all due diligence, can we derogate from that? The due diligence requirements include whether the decision has been taken autonomously and without coercion. Can the proposers reflect on how we ensure that there is and remains attention for women from a culture or a social environment where there may be compulsion? How do we ensure extra focus on this issue for doctors and aid workers? Finally, Mr President. Our abortion care is of high quality. Our doctors work every day to provide women with the best possible support and care. They do so in a broader context. Then I'm referring to the good care around pregnancy, whether it's desired or unwanted. I also refer to the prevention of unintended and unwanted pregnancies, and to the protection of unborn life. I also refer to the good alternatives for women who prefer not to opt for abortion. And in all cases there is good aftercare for women, regardless of the choice they make. We certainly do not lose sight of the need to prevent women from getting into this situation by continuing to focus on preventing unwanted pregnancies. Because that also fits in with protecting the importance of unborn life. We must continue to work together for all this concern. The handling of this bill makes a good contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	I shall then first give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA and then to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you to Mrs Hermans for the speech. Thanks also for bringing to your attention the joint history of VVD and Labour Party when it comes to women's rights. I have a question about her last remark, about preventing unwanted pregnancies. I think we're all bound to believe that that's a good goal. That is why I was so disappointed when I read in the coalition agreement that making free contraception available to everyone is not part of it, even though a motion has been passed. I think I tabled that motion with Mrs Ellemeet in order to make contraception available to everyone free of charge. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Hermans: would you reconsider this, also on the basis of that majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	We have made a number of agreements in the coalition agreement on pregnancy and birth, in particular on the care surrounding unintended, unwanted pregnancies. We also see that there is a real need for an additional step, especially in the case of vulnerable women, and that is why the agreement on contraception for this group has been reached in the coalition agreement. In the broad sense, I think more is needed. I think the prevention of unintended pregnancies is about more. I would therefore like to look at this whole issue more broadly than just the question of contraception. So we're doing something about that for that vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	I think that is a missed opportunity, despite the good intentions of looking wider, because making free contraception available to a lot of women is relevant. Contraception is not a luxury; it is necessary. It's also unfair that only women take the fall for that. I would like to say to Mrs Hermans that this is the first time I have asked this question in this cabinet period, but certainly not the last. So I would encourage her not to stop thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mrs Ploumen can count on us not to stop thinking, but to do so in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	I shall then first give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA, then to Mr Hijink and then to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	Thank you for the speech by Mrs Hermans. If I understand correctly, you say, also in view of history and the like: we think it is a good step; it is good that this bill is there, so support it. I will then hear the following questions. But how is it going to work in practice? What if there are people who might be forced or driven? And what about vulnerable groups? Then how can we ensure that care is taken? As long as that is not clear, how can you indicate in advance that you want to say goodbye to that fixed period of thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	That problem, the terrible situation in which women have to deal with compulsion and urge when it comes to abortion, is now there too. Those stories are horrible. I think we should pay attention to this, with or without this bill. I am asking the question separately, precisely for this reason, precisely because we must ensure that this decision-making process is careful. These are the following questions. Does a woman get the right information? Does she also have an idea of the alternatives that exist? Are we sure the choice was made voluntarily? At this very point, every day, we must make every effort to ensure that this is done properly in that process. I am convinced that the quality of our care is geared to this, but that does not alter the fact that the problem still exists, that this is still happening, unfortunately. I'm actually just asking for extra attention to be paid to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	The fact that we need to ensure this is an understandable answer, but then the situation can still arise that someone in that position would like to get rid of it quickly and say 'I don't need a period of reflection, I have already thought about it', while the environment is not being looked at. Perhaps there is a view on support possibilities and the person concerned can reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	That's exactly what it is. It's not like there's gonna be no more time for reflection. We do not delete the period of reflection in its entirety; it is only the obligation of those five days. The period of reflection remains, which must be determined by agreement between the doctor and the woman. It is precisely in these situations that it is important to make very precise agreements with each other, and then I rely on the quality of our care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	Mrs Palland, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	The fact that the obligation goes off and it becomes flexible does not mean that there is no time limit, but what if a woman says that she has already thought about it and under pressure also says that she doesn't need a thought period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u122	There will be an interview between the doctor and the paramedic. I rely on the professionalism and expertise of our doctors, of the people working in abortion care, in order to expose this in the conversations that doctors have with women. That in some cases it will be difficult and that it will not always be easy, I acknowledge. But it is precisely by drawing attention to this and naming it now that we are making the subject open for discussion, here in the public debate; but it must also be negotiable in the intimate conversation between doctor and woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Hijink and then Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u124	I had another question about access to abortion care. The SP considers it important that there are no unnecessary thresholds. One of those thresholds that we currently have is the own risk that applies to hospitals. A small proportion of abortions take place in hospitals. The SP Group has always found it very strange that, where an abortion is simply reimbursed in the abortion clinic, the risk is its own if it happens in the hospital. I would like to ask the VVD whether it would not be logical, when it comes to equivalence and the removal of thresholds, to ensure that abortions in the hospital are not subject to their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u125	I understand Mr Hijink's question. It is exactly what Mr Hijink says: it is a small percentage of abortions that take place in hospitals, often for violent medical reasons. Although I understand the question, I think it is a good thing that we have the agreements on funding as we have agreed. I think that is because the talks about abortion, the conversation about it, the general practitioner and the abortion clinic are possible. There's no threshold there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u126	But could we at least, in order to get somewhere in the middle, ask the Minister to put together what the financial consequences would be if we removed that own risk for abortions in the hospital? He's in there now. Surely that's something we can ask for, so we can get a picture of it? If those implications are very limited, I think it would be wise to deal with them together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u127	We can certainly ask the Minister that question. That's what I'm sharing. I think we have done this. If I may add a question to Mr Hijink's question to the Minister, I would, of course, like to ask, through you, Mr President, if the Minister can also give an idea of the number of abortions in hospitals and in abortion clinics. So we can see the total picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks, and then Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u129	I would like to touch on Mrs Ploumen's question on contraception: should this not be reflected in the basic package? Mrs Ploumen has already made a number of good arguments. Contraception is not just a problem for women, it is a shared responsibility. From this point of view, does Mrs Hermans agree with me that we should also take this shared responsibility and that we should therefore ensure that contraception is simply available and is included in the basic package?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u130	I share with Mrs Westerveld the shared responsibility of husband and wife in pregnancy. I just do not believe that this shared responsibility can only be reflected if you put contraception in the basic package or bring it back into the basic package. I think this is about the question: how do you do the conversation? This certainly applies on the preventive side, so as to prevent unintentional pregnancies. How do you ensure that in the relationships between man and woman this is discussed, and the risk of unwanted pregnancy becomes as small as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u131	I fully agree with Mrs Hermans, of course. It is precisely from the idea of prevention and prevention of unwanted pregnancies that contraception is of course important, and everyone must have access to it. What strikes me in the coalition agreement is that the law we are discussing today is a free matter. There's gonna be another law soon, about the abortion pill. That is a free issue, but then these kinds of issues, which are important for prevention, are not free issues in the coalition agreement. I would also like to say that if we can deal with preventive matters in order to prevent them from leading to undesirable situations, then that should also be important. Then why are they not issues that Parliament's political groups, including the coalition, can simply vote freely on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u132	During the formation, the coalition parties discussed the medical-ethical issues very extensively and agreed with each other on the free issues and the space available for a personal consideration. Those topics are about life and death. They really touch on the fundamental questions that we as 150 Members of Parliament have to answer and which we have to consider. We have agreed that there is room for MPs to make that individual assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr Stoffer, SGP, and then Mrs Gündoğan, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u134	I have already expressed my surprise in this debate towards D66 about the speed with which this proposal lies. We've only just got a cabinet, and this proposal is already there. At the VVD I am also surprised that this is chefsache. If I add the pain that this does to coalition partners ChristianUnion and, I hope to belong to later, also to the CDA, were there now no bigger, more important issues for the VVD than to take this term out of the law and say: this is really necessary for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u135	The VVD Group consists of 34 members. I'm one of them. I am speaking on this subject tonight, because my colleague Ockje Tellegen is normally our spokesperson for medical ethics as initiator defending this bill from professional K. I, as one of the other members of the group, agreed to make the contribution on behalf of the VVD Group. That's why I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u136	This is a responsibility why it could be chiefsache or not. However, my question was whether the VVD did not see any bigger problems in the country that would first have priority to deal with here instead of taking this deadline out of this. This is also happening in conjunction with the pain that lives on this with the coalition partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u137	Still, about the first one. Could it also be that it is a subject that concerns me personally? Could it be that it is a subject on which I think it is important to make my contribution, of course on behalf of the VVD Group, because I personally am intrinsically motivated to make this effort? Could that also be an option, I ask Mr Stoffer. And yes, there are a lot of things in the coalition agreement that need to be done, which are important and which are currently being worked hard in the cabinet. I believe that there was a major debate this afternoon and also yesterday. I heard from a colleague that next week there will be a major debate on social affairs. There is talk in many places about many important legislative proposals and effects from the coalition agreement that this coalition has to work with. But this is a proposal that has been worked on intensively, which has been written a lot about, which has been answered. That proposal is now ready for consideration. That's right here and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr Stoffer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u139	Clear. Thanks for the answer. I expected other priorities, but so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u140	I would like to come back to Mrs Hermans on the basic package and the extension of contraception from 21 years of age. Then I'd like to make an arithmetical proposition. The spiral: you can't forget that. Once it's placed, it's in. It protects you for five years and costs €160. That's $32 a year. I think an abortion is costing me a lot of money. I don't have the last number that's really sharp somewhere around €970. Of course, we can never consider the immaterial aspects, but I think it might be a good financial consideration to look at them again. Given that the spiral can never be forgotten, this works well to save a lot of grief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u141	That's right, it's not a simple math you're making. This is about something intangible that has great consequences and impact. In your own contribution, you also spoke of it in fine, special words. We agreed in the coalition agreement on pregnancy and birth. We have said that we certainly need to offer more protection and extra help to vulnerable women. For them we make contraception available free of charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u142	I may have remembered it wrong, but I don't think the term "vulnerable women" is defined. Mrs Hermans, I do not think that it would be a problem for you and me at all. But if you have a very small income, depend on a man and are over 21, then it becomes very arbitrary who is vulnerable. Is only the woman vulnerable who, for example, can make that choice mentally or mentally difficult, or is it also someone financially in that position? I would ask you, however, to fill in the definition of vulnerable women with the look of that small financial effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u143	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u144	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u145	I am now going to answer this question through the President. In my view, this is precisely a subject that needs to be addressed when drawing up this phrase in the coalition agreement. That is indeed a definition that we must define with each other. In doing so, we must bear in mind where the group of women we are in this process, along this route of contraception, are best able to help prevent unintended, unwanted pregnancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u146	Finally, Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u147	Yeah, obviously through the chairman. I'm trying to learn. It goes wrong sometimes. I'm glad to hear that. With 30,000 pregnancies, about half of them due to failing or missing contraception, there is still much to be achieved in education and in the availability of contraception. I am therefore pleased with that answer, I say through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u149	A little less than 3.5 hours, but I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u150	That's exactly how it can be done. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have asked for three and a half hours' speaking time, so that will be all right. First of all, the SP Group would like to thank the authors for submitting the legislative proposal and also for responding in writing to all the questions we have already asked. The right to abortion is an achievement to which the SP attaches great importance. We must be careful about this and we must ensure that there is no new legislation and regulation that creates barriers to the current practice of abortion. Of course, the proposal from the proposers does not do that either. The removal of the five-day legal period will bring about a change in practice as it is today. It is an adjustment that is not unwise as far as the SP is concerned, provided that the consideration takes place in all due care. For the SP, it is crucial that all women feel that a decision to abortion can take place freely and without pressure from anyone. It is also important for us that the decision has been taken carefully. After all, abortion is irreversible. That is why it is so important for the SP that women, even if they later look back on that decision, have the sense that this decision has always been made on good grounds. We are talking today about replacing the mandatory five-day period of reflection by a period set in consultation between the doctor and the woman. The fact that the authors attach importance to a flexible period of reflection is an important point for the SP. The decision on abortion is often difficult and often very well-considered. A period of rest between the conversation and treatment can help in the processing process afterwards. At the same time, we note that in the context of care and ex post processing, not so much the legal length of the period of reflection is of great importance, but precisely the quality of the conversation that takes place between the aid workers, the doctor and the woman who is considering abortion. That's also apparent from research. The decision on abortion is never taken rashly, because it is a major decision for all women. The practice shows that there is a sufficiently long period of reflection in any case and that speed of decision-making is not important. As far as the SP is concerned, this personal care, the exact situation of the woman, must be paramount. This means that sometimes a longer period of reflection than five days is used, but sometimes also a shorter one. My question to the proposers is whether they are sufficiently convinced that in today's practice doctors and aid workers have sufficient time and space to conduct this conversation carefully. What guarantees are there to ensure that no time pressure will play a role in any situation? And what does this mean for any investment that might be needed to organise abortion care in our country as effectively as possible? Mr. Chairman. If a patient comes to an abortion clinic for surgery after the first trimester, an abortion takes place by means of an instrumental procedure. It's often done under anesthesia. The SP would like to know from the proposers how they see it working if this legislative amendment is adopted. The treatment may take place on the same day, but for anesthesia it is recommended to be sober. How does it work when it comes to such a specific situation? Mr. Chairman. The SP believes that we should have the confidence in doctors that they make a proper assessment when treating a patient who is considering abortion. Do the proposers agree with the SP? According to the proposers, does the current practice, with a mandatory period of reflection, prevent that confidence? Can the proposers state clearly what advantages and disadvantages they see in abolishing the legal period of reflection? How do these advantages and disadvantages relate to each other? And what is the decisive argument for claiming that abortion practice is better off without a legally defined period of reflection? Finally, Mr President. In the written answer, in response to questions put by the VVD, the applicants point out that a certain degree of clarity is needed in order to determine exactly what is a sensible flexible period of reflection. The SP likes to hear what this should look like in practice. In what way do the proposers consider that the flexible period of reflection should be given a place in the conversations that take place between doctors and women? In the written reply, the applicants seem to be guided by mutual agreements within the profession. Can that be explained in more detail? Should we think of a quality framework? Do we have to think about agreements within the profession? Is it a consideration of individual doctors themselves? How is that supposed to take shape? The SP believes that it is very important to clarify this because this new definition of the concept of a period of consultation, i.e. a flexible period of reflection, should not lead to confusion and confusion. In this respect, it would be logical for the professional group to clarify the importance of this flexible period of reflection and also how it should be discussed between doctors and women. I would very much like to receive a response from the proposers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Before we continue with Mrs Ploumen, I would like to suspend for five minutes to stretch the legs. Then we go to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u153	I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the authors of this initiative proposal, which aims to eliminate the mandatory minimum period of reflection in the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. It is always a lot of work to write an own initiative proposal. I thank them for their commitment. Mr. Chairman. The applicants argue that research shows that women, in consultation with their doctors, are also perfectly capable of taking an informed and careful decision on the termination of pregnancy without a mandatory minimum period of thought. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will not be surprised if it supports that proposal and is also one of the proposers. Mr. Chairman. It's up to her. That is the starting point and the end point for the Labour Party when it comes to an unwanted pregnancy. If it decides to abort pregnancy, it must have information at its disposal. Then, if she needs it, she should be able to ask questions to a neutral aid worker who is an expert. It must then be able to ensure that the operation can be carried out within a reasonable period of time at a location which is easily accessible to it. And then she should not be harassed or intimidated by protesters calling on her to be a murderer. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the Abortion Act provides the legal framework for the termination of pregnancy. It's a law that has a rich history. Mrs Hermans has already referred to this. The law has now been reviewed for the second time. Mr. Chairman. The law has been worked out in a protocol and a guidance from the Dutch Society of Abortion Doctors and thus receives a necessary, practical translation. This leads to careful practice. This is also the conclusion of the second review of the law in 2020. That was also the conclusion of the first evaluation in 2005. It is also what I hear when I talk to women who have broken off an unwanted pregnancy, about their experiences at their general practitioner and at the abortion clinic. It is also what I hear from general practitioners and abortion doctors and what I observe when I visit clinics. Mr. Chairman. So let us first of all establish that it is good and important that this conclusion can be drawn. There is a careful practice based on the law in the Netherlands. It is also against this background that both the 2005 and 2020 evaluations recommend the deletion of the mandatory five-day period from the time of the doctor's determination of pregnancy. The evaluation can read the following: "This evaluation again shows that in a number of cases a fixed period of reflection causes friction, particularly if it threatens to exceed certain deadlines, while caregivers and women, including self-regulation, prove to have a sufficiently long reflection period, even without a fixed legal period of reflection." It shall decide, in consultation with its doctor, on the period of reflection required. It's up to her. It means that in practice we can see the period of reflection both longer and shorter. We don't have to go in there. That is what this initiative legislative proposal is about. The leading voice is her voice. The evaluation shows that the mandatory period of reflection can be regarded as burdensome by women, that the mandatory period of reflection can lead to restrictions on treatment options and that the mandatory period of reflection may give rise to problems in the last weeks before the 24 week limit, e.g. when structural abnormalities are identified with the 20 week echo. Mr. Chairman. According to the Labour Party, these findings from the evaluation lead to the conclusion that care for unwanted pregnant women considering abortion is not optimal. That is undesirable and unnecessary. Mr. Chairman. I am aware, as it turned out today, that there are different views about the legal framework surrounding the termination of pregnancy, including in this Chamber. I think it's up to her. Others make other considerations. There are also parties in this House who believe that the legal framework can be improved in this respect. My party would like abortion to go out of the Code of Criminal Law, but others are mordicus against it. But I think we all agree that women should be given the best possible care. And this is our chance to optimize the care of women. As far as my group is concerned, we are also taking this opportunity. That is why, together with my Green Left colleague Corinne Ellemeet, I tabled a motion in 2020 to abolish that mandatory period of reflection. I think it is good and important that this has now been converted into an initiative legislative proposal. Thanks again to the authors! Mr. Chairman. As I said, the evaluation gives a number of reasons why this mandatory period of reflection should be removed, and these are also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the law. I would like to add that the legal period of reflection is regarded by women as incriminating and patronizing. If her voice is the leading voice, then it is she who decides, including the time she needs to come to an informed decision. The World Health Organisation also recommends that there should be no unnecessary barriers to abortion care in order to prevent women from taking care, which may make it difficult to provide safe abortion assistance. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two questions to the authors and one question to the Minister. On the basis of research, are there any relevant insights for the Netherlands from those countries where the period of reflection has not been laid down by law, which can further improve abortion care for women? My second question is: can the proposers elaborate on the requirement of informed consent in medical treatment and how does this support the abolition of the statutory five-day period of reflection? Mr. Chairman. Then a question to the Minister. We can also read in the evaluation that they find that there is a bottleneck in the reimbursement of contraceptives. In the opinion of the researchers, it would be a good idea to find a structural solution to this problem. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this, partly in the light of the motion that I have just spoken about. Mr. Chairman. My closing appeal to the parties here in the Lower House. There are different views on women's right to safe and legal abortion. I will say it once more: as far as I am concerned, it will decide. What is going on here, and that is my call, we could also see differently, namely as the right of women to the best possible care at a time in their lives that they can use that care more than ever. We now have the opportunity to ensure that they get that best possible care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u156	I have a question for you, but of course it is also a bit of a question to the initiators. I'll be very brief. I was sent a story from a gentleman and a lady. Years ago, when an A.E.T. came out for a new job that the lady was pregnant. The M.E. said to the lady: I have to report this to your new employer. She didn't want to unless you have an abortion right away. Those people were completely overwhelmed and they did. Later it became clear that the medical examiner had not acted lawfully at all, but those people were actually protected by the law. They could also advertise. We are going to do this now and we are also going to delete Article 16. Perhaps Mrs Ploumen can explain to me whether I understand correctly, but is there still some kind of legal possibility for people who have been treated so miserably, to go anywhere with a complaint?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u157	I think it's a horror what happened to those people. Not only does it go against my morals in every possible way, but I also assume that Mrs van der Plas's, it is also legally inappropriate. I very much hope that few people will have to go through that. I suppose that's true, too. Mr. Chairman. If we look at what this initiative proposal is about, it does not alter the balance that has been sought in the law between the protection of the unborn life and the right to self-determination of women. It also does not affect the possibility of lodging a complaint against a health care professional if one considers that one has not been helped correctly or properly. The practice of providing abortion assistance and care, which we also read in that evaluation, has been documented, and there are the usual ways of submitting complaints, up to medical discipline. That is not affected by this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u158	Okay, but now you have Article 16. There are also specific things about a fine for a doctor, and that is what I am asking. You call it the Medical Disciplinary College, but are people legally protected? Do you not run the risk of being said: yes, dear sir and madam, that article has been deleted or that law has become different; you can no longer claim compensation for mental damage or whatever?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u159	Let us above all hope that such matters will be kept to a minimum. Fortunately, I hear very few complaints about this, but the right of complaint in all its facets simply remains in place, even if this legislative initiative is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u160	Finally, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u161	That's not quite clear to me yet. That may also come to me later, because I think that is a very important one. If this legal deadline is abolished, including Article 16, is there another possibility for those people to go to court to check everything against the law, but that law will no longer be there to demand compensation or punishment or whatever? I actually hear in Mrs Ploumen's words that you can file a complaint, but I wonder if you can actually go to court to demand such a thing. That's not what I'm hearing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u162	Then let me be clear. Any medical treatment, whether laid down in this law or in protocol, has the potential to file complaints and there are opportunities to go to court. That's not affected by this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Man is unique. Man is equal, fundamentally equal, not the same as anyone else. People differ in gifts and talents, and they only come fully into their own in relation to others. Involvement in each other: we can also appeal to each other. The CDA rejects an approach that treats people merely as standalone individuals and contrasts it with recognition of human connectedness. After all, man is also free. Free to do good, free to fail and free to make choices. Care for us is not primarily a medical treatment, a product or a pill, but a meaningful relationship. Mr. Chairman. These principles are central to how we look at the legislative proposal before us. For the CDA, every human being counts and therefore human life deserves protection. In a rule of law, respect for human life and the protection of its dignity are fundamental principles for legislation. The same applies to unborn life. For us, therefore, it is important that this protection of unborn life has an important place in the Writing-Off Pregnancy Act. In addition, looking after the neighbor is also the mercy for a woman in need, as a result of an unintended pregnancy. Help must be given to her and all the space to consider how to proceed, autonomously. As far as we are concerned, the law must provide the best possible balance between these two values. They are values on which tension can also prevail: the protection of unborn life on the one hand, and autonomy for a woman in need on the other. In doing so, it is important to continue to realise that the conditions surrounding the possibility of abortion are there to protect vulnerable people. This applies not only to vulnerable unborn life, but also to women, who often seek help in a vulnerable situation. After all, not every woman who asks for abortion does so in complete autonomy. Anyone staring blind at autonomy and freedom of choice escapes the pressure, the compulsion, the revenge of honour, the sexual violence that a woman and her unborn child are the victims of. In such situations, a clear procedure that contributes to careful and informed decision-making can help to clarify the situation for both doctors and women. Mr. Chairman. The mandatory five-day period of reflection is intended to give women the opportunity to consider their decision carefully and, where appropriate, to use specialised assistance and support. After all, an informed choice also requires an insight into all possible alternatives, such as support for the delivery of pregnancy, the raising of the child, childbirth under secrecy, foster care, giving up for adoption, etc. A period of reflection is also used in many of the countries around us, including Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg. It is clear that for the CDA the fixed period of reflection is an important part of that balance of values in the law, and of the careful procedure contained therein. Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators for the comprehensive answers to the written questions we have asked. But in response to these answers I have a few further questions. The first concerns the protection of a vulnerable minority. I ask the initiators to reflect on the fact that rules such as the mandatory period of reflection can be particularly important for women who are seeking help in a vulnerable situation. In the written round we mentioned the example of a general practitioner who states that precisely the mandatory nature of the five-day period offers rest in such cases, because it removes the pressure. We are not convinced that the initiator is putting aside this general practitioner's argument with reference to studies which show that a majority does not appreciate the period of reflection. The fact that a majority of women do not claim to be in need of it is no reason, in itself, to remove that protection for that vulnerable minority. I'd like to hear a response from the initiators. I come to the point of maintaining safeguards and the importance of the unborn child versus so-called paternalism. The initiators indicate that it is up to the autonomous woman herself to consider how she weighs those two values of the law, the freedom of choice and the protection of life, and that she can then decide for herself whether or not she wants abortion. How do the initiators reconcile this with the care and balance sought and found in the current law? And what are the legal safeguards in this respect? The initiators point out that a mandatory period of reflection would be paternalistic, but they think it is normal that we also use time limits in other areas. Mr Stoffer mentioned that too. Counselling periods are provided for cosmetic interventions, in consumer law, in colportage, in the purchase of a house and so on. Those are other cases, but we think it is normal for us to impose such a period of reflection in order to get back to it. And why, in this particular case, where care is so important, should you not allow this to be reflected in the procedure and how we shape it? We do not do this to impose a choice or to force it; the choice is entirely up to the woman. But we're doing it out of care and commitment. My third point concerns the practical development of this flexible period. The bill introduces a flexible period of reflection, whereby women, in consultation with, and supported by, the doctor, set a period of reflection which, given the specific circumstances of the woman, is necessary to reach an informed decision. The CDA Group is concerned about how it works in practice. How has this care been secured in practice now? The initiators want to make the period of reflection more consistent with the specific circumstances of women. But how do they want to do that? And how does this work out in directives? How is it verifiable whether and, if so, on what grounds a short or a long period of reflection is used? In reply, the initiators suggest that the new approach could, for example, lead to a revision of the directives in order to ensure a certain degree of clarity, without leading to instruments that determine how long a period of reflection should be. But that's too skinny for us. Guarantees, and how this should work in practice, must be clear in advance as far as we are concerned. That is what this fragile subject deserves. What if pressure is experienced from the outside? Or what if the doctor suspects this? The victim of this pressure will be anxious and may have even more explaining to the printing environment if a longer period of reflection is used. And how long does it have to be? And how do you explain that? How is it prevented that replacing a fixed period with a flexible period, which can also be zero days, can be an empty shell in practice? We also read the news that a number of abortion clinics feel supported by that fixed term, because it gives rest. That message can be read on RTV Oost, among other things. Mr. Chairman. The initiators want to flexibilise the period of reflection, not to abolish it, we understood that correctly. However, the CDA is not convinced that the design that is now before us offers sufficient material guarantees and wonders whether the period of reflection will not become an empty shell in practice. Why did the initiators not consider including a safety net clause, a standard to fall back on when the woman or the doctor or they jointly find it difficult to set a time limit? Not a mandatory deadline, but a starting point, a time limit from which we can deviate together, by mutual agreement and agreement, but at least there is a starting point. Finally, a question to the Minister. The government agreement includes improving understanding of the reason for abortions, so that we can work together with civil society to provide appropriate information and support, thus reducing the number of unwanted and unintentional pregnancies and repeated abortions. How does the Minister intend to implement this? We're very curious about that. Mr. Chairman. It is clear how the CDA stands in this: it decides, within a careful procedure, which also provides guidance. The minimum period of reflection is an integral part of this for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mrs Palland. And then we go to Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u166	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. First of all, I would like to wish all those women who are faced with the heavy choice of breaking down a pregnancy, a lot of wisdom, strength, support and strength, but I also want to remember the men. Although a woman is about her own body, there is another body in that body, a body in the process of being, but that body, however it may look in the earliest stage of pregnancy, is half of the male body. The choice is not only difficult for the woman, also for the man, who in some cases together with the woman but also in some cases does not opt for abortion. We must not think too lightly about this either. Mr. Chairman. I am struggling enormously with this issue because it concerns human lives, not least human life in the mother's belly. The five-day deadline disappears in exchange for a doctor's assessment. It seems as if volunteering is an important aspect, but of course this decision is about far more than voluntary. Protecting vulnerable women should be the starting point. Women must have control over their own bodies, but decisions must not be taken lightly. Doctors in abortion clinic Stimezo in Zwolle also question this initiative law. They see, on the contrary, that many women benefit from this legal period of reflection. A quote: "There are many mature women who think they know exactly what they want, and then they regret that they acted too quickly," said the doctors. Mr. Chairman. The second evaluation of the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy showed that caregivers find that the period of reflection sometimes puts limits at risk. 48% of caregivers find the time limit too rigid. A question to the initiators: has an option been discussed to only make an exception as an interim solution if borders are at risk? According to the initiators, the mandatory period would not reflect the autonomy of the woman and the caregiver. This is a bit at odds, I think, with the fact that abortion should not be considered too lightly. The possibility of abortion does not relieve women of the moral obligation to take measures if one does not want to become pregnant and want to have sex. This also applies to the men. And are the initiators also going to make a determined effort to fully reintegrate the pill into the basic package? There are, of course, several understandable reasons for pregnancy and its termination, such as rape, serious illness of the child, a life-threatening situation for the mother, or unable to take care of the child. Could the period of reflection perhaps also be linked to just these reasons? A period of reflection is, for example, for rape of another order. Article 16 of the law offered the possibility of an exception, but it is now being deleted. Mr. Chairman. The explanatory memorandum states that there are rarely negative psychological consequences for women. However, it is not clear to me how this has been investigated. If that can be clarified, I ask the initiators. After all, women can only suffer from their decision many years later, either because they are in a state of survival in the first few years, or if they do eventually have a baby. I've heard these stories up close, too. Mr. Chairman. A non-honored request for termination of pregnancy does lead to serious consequences, as argued. However, this argument is based on the 2005 NROG's "Pregnancy break-up to 24 weeks" directive. He got this from an American investigation in 1991. That was 30 years ago! 30 years ago! And it comes from a country that is much more conservative than the Netherlands, especially then. Can the initiators confirm this? If yes, why are 30-year-old dates used for a legislative amendment in 2022? Surely no abortion requests are refused in the Netherlands? And if so, how many refusals are we talking about? And why? (NL) Mr President, in conclusion, I shall conclude. BBB is not convinced of the necessity and added value of this law. I will therefore vote against this law. Of course, I am still happy to receive answers to my questions. Just one more thing. I would like to return to what Mrs Gündoğan said. She referred to the pronunciation "protect your daughter"; that was supposed to be "educate your sons." I want to suggest that we change that into: protect and educate your children. Then we'll just stick to each one's own responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u167	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. It was a little entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u168	I really liked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u169	Yeah, but an entrapment can be nice, too. Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u170	I don't think this is a very pleasant comment, I see. Above all, I would like to say very clearly why I do not think that is such a pleasant comment. It is very often difficult for victims to speak out. I didn't mean to, but I feel a little challenged: I'm such a victim. That surprised my husband. Because of the MeToo affair, I told him. People might not expect that from me, because they think you're a crunchy woman. And that was a revelation, because when I went to speak, my friends also went to speak. It was a turn of events. So I'm sticking to it: education your sons. And that "protect your daughter" gets off. A woman must be able to feel safe. Whether it's in the workshop or in the street, in the pub or at a friend's house: it has to be safe and it has to be reciprocal. I think you are ignoring that a little bit, as I say through the President-in-Office, I still have to raise myself a little bit in this and that you are actually undermining those stories. It's gonna come in on me in a minute. I can't speak for all the victims, but I really think that after all the MeToo revelations, it's just time that people really look at sexuality and position and power differences differently. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u171	Well, I'd be happy to respond to that, of course. Firstly, Mrs Gündoğan does not know my history; she does not know where it comes from that I say so. So that's an assumption. Why do I think that: protect and educate your children? Of course you're protecting your children. Every parent in the Netherlands protects his children. It's really weird when you say you don't have to protect them, because everyone has to be safe. Yeah, that's gonna be the case in fairy tale country, but in a society, it just isn't. Of course you're gonna protect your kids. "educate your children" also includes: learn your children, so as well as the men and the women, how to behave in society and how to be vigilant about possible dangers. Mrs Gündoğan takes it very personally, but I think about it in a very different way. It's really not meant to hurt her or hurt MeToos victims. Again, Mrs Gündoğan does not know my entire history. So, yeah, I don't really get it that she takes this so personally. Anyway, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u172	This is not about me, and I'm not really interested in you either. And I know very little about you, indeed. We share a birthday: we are both birthdays on June 6th. And we share the fact that we both lost our loved ones very early. That's what I know in general terms of the private sphere. What I do know as a woman, for example, and I am simply trying to speak more as a woman here is that Mrs Kuik gets mails that she has to behave chastely. What I do know is that it's just being said to me: Volt's bitch with the fat tits. That sort of thing. And then, of course, my heart breaks when such a program of Tim Hofman appears, and I hear again in the corridors: why do women not speak out? Well, I was one of those women. So I really think the time is right. It grabs me mostly because I recognize it. You can't always defend yourself everywhere. No, the world is not soft and nice, but people should be aware that words can still come in. I also think Mrs. Chicken is a particularly crunchy woman, but I also think that after the 500th e-mail sitting in that corner, she just thinks: and now I'm really sick of it! That's what I wanted to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u174	Yes. Well, well, I don't feel the need to respond to this further. We are not talking about The Voice of Holland, we are talking about a law that deals with a five-day period for the termination of pregnancy. So I think we're going to stray a little bit when we're going to discuss The Voice of Holland and emails to Attje Kuik, to Mrs. Gündoğan and to me and I'm thinking about everyone here in the room. So I don't think that's very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you. We are indeed going back to today's topic. I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An abortion is a tragedy, an early and premature termination of a budding life. As far as FVD is concerned, abortion is therefore inhuman if there is no rape, incest, danger to the mother's life or serious deviation in the unborn child. Unborn life must be protected as much as possible, precisely because it is so incredibly vulnerable and cannot defend itself in any way; not only by parents but also by society. The tragedy of abortion must therefore be avoided and discouraged as far as possible from society as far as FVD is concerned. A legal period of reflection is a measure that aims precisely at this. However, with the present legislative proposal, the initiators aim to abolish the statutory period of five days for abortion. The explanatory memorandum refers first of all to the autonomy and right of self-determination of women. Autonomy and self-determination are also very important core values for FVD. But to what extent are they substantially under pressure because of this period of reflection of only five days? There are legally all kinds of time-limits. It has already been mentioned, among others, by Mrs Palland and Mr Stoffer. For example, the legal reflection period when buying houses is three days. Are buyers affected by this compulsory period of reflection in their autonomy and self-determination? Should this kind of reflection period not also be abolished, as far as the proposers are concerned, with a profession or individual autonomy and self-determination? And what do the proposers of the countless ways in which the State today tries to subtly adjust individual choice behavior to "nudgen" as it is now popularly called, for example, by obliging frightening pictures on packets of cigarettes, taxing sugar and alcohol, or by requiring workers to pay a pension? Quite specifically: why is D66 a five-day reflection period for an abortion paternalistic, but is it okay if the State assumes that every Dutchman has no objection to organ donation, unless otherwise indicated? In short, the reference to autonomy and self-determination in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal is not very credible to us. In addition, the initiators argue that the period of reflection is considered uncomfortable by the parents. Understandable, but isn't this the right thing to do? It is literally a decision of life and death, which is incredibly far-reaching and irreversible. Such a decision should not be taken lightly. A legal period of reflection serves to ensure this. That it is annoying for the parents, that may be, but it is not only necessary, but even appropriate as far as we are concerned. Just as grief when a loved one dies is part of life as far as we are concerned, and is not something undesirable. How many parents regret their choice over time, perhaps because they remain unwanted childless at a later stage of their lives? Mrs. Van der Plas just said the same thing. Do the proposers have any idea? This feeling of guilt is, of course, not only a huge taboo, which will make it difficult to measure, but will keep up with them for the rest of their lives, rather than the five-day reflection period that this proposal is about. I would like to give four quotes from parents who have been remorseful of their decision. The first quote: "I'm happy, really. But deep down, I haven't forgiven myself for my abortion. Afterwards, it turned out to be my only chance at a child. I've managed quite well to push that feeling into the background. But sometimes, when someone from my area is pregnant, or when I see my girlfriend's son, who is now as old as my son or daughter would have been, it hurts a lot." The second quote: "It's now a year and a half later and there's not a moment when I don't think about the child that was never born." The third quote: "After the surgery in the clinic, I was nauseous for a few days. Now I've been sick for eight years when I see an ad somewhere with a happy baby. Then my stomach turns around and I whisper in my mind an'sorry' to the baby that should never be born." The last quote: "Every day I think about my baby. I'm so sorry. So terribly sorry. But I don't know if I'm sorry about the abortion itself or how it turned out. For me, this has really been done to me and I had no other choice at the time." Have the proposers realised that more than two thirds of abortion doctors, gynecologists, nurses, social workers and psychologists are largely positive about the period of reflection, because it prevents impulsive decisions? And do they know that a poll among 400 women with an abortion experience showed that 71% found the period of reflection useful? In addition, recent research by DirectResearch shows that a large majority of Dutch people support the mandatory period of reflection. Finally, Mr Stoffer also said: is not every life saved in this way sufficient reason for a five-day period of reflection? However, what we have noticed above all is that the most important consideration for us in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal remains completely unnamed. That consideration is that an unborn life that has the potential to become a fully-fledged human being, just like all of us here in this Chamber, is killed prematurely and knowingly. It is a young, defenseless and early life, which moreover has no voice and cannot defend itself in any way. It is a life that deserves much more protection than a five-day period of reflection. It will be clear that FVD is very critical of abortion. Apart from the known exceptions, as far as we are concerned, abortion is, in principle, undesirable. I repeat the exceptions: abortion after rape or incest, death risk to the mother or serious birth defects in the child. As far as FVD is concerned, the period of reflection is therefore maintained. Except, again, abortion after rape or incest, danger of life to the mother or a serious birth defect of the child. In addition, as is customary in some states in the US, we consider it desirable to have a mandatory ultrasound in an abortion that is not covered by the aforementioned exceptions, starting from ten weeks. Finally. As far as we are concerned, the current 24-week abortion period is far too wide. An embryo can be viable outside the womb at the current state of the art from 19 weeks onwards. We will come up with an initiative proposal which will ensure by law that the maximum abortion period must always be shorter than the number of weeks from when a baby can be viable outside the womb. So that's not 24 weeks, it's 18 weeks. We have already reached out to the SGP on this issue and may hope to be able to send this proposal to the Chamber together with other parties in the near future. I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. This is the last paragraph. In short, for FVD, any abortion is a tragedy. This is what we, as a society, should want to avoid, discourage and limit as much as possible. As far as we are concerned, the current legislation on abortion, which allows abortion for up to 24 weeks, is far too broad. This initiative proposal makes it a little easier to proceed to an abortion by abolishing the mandatory five-day period of reflection. So we will vote against this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA, then Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks and then Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u178	The Forum for Democracy has a different view on women's rights and women's right to self-determination as the Labour Party. That's not new. We have also seen this in the rather staggering statements of foreman Thierry Baudet about what women would or would not like in sex. The proposal that Mr Van Houwelingen is making here to require women to look at an echo if they are considering an abortion and are in the presence of a general practitioner or abortion clinic for that purpose shows pure women's hatred. It's not just an undermining of women's right to self-determination, it's just three, four, five, six, seven steps further. It is clear that this is unacceptable to the Labour Party. I would also ask Mr Van Houwelingen to return to his steps and to respect women's rights rather than trample on them every step of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you for your question. I also saw your tweet about this. I sincerely wonder where you stand on the idea that this bill would be directed against women. I have just said it at the first interruption, but as far as we are concerned it is not just about women. A child has a father and a mother. So that's what it starts with. We want to stand up for unborn life. That is what we are emphasising. Of course, the right to self-determination for women and men is also very important. So that has nothing to do with women's hatred. I just gave examples of women who were very sorry after an abortion. They might have been very happy about it afterwards. So I don't know where you get it from that we do this out of misogyny. It's really insane. There's nothing else I can say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u180	For those who understand, it is clear what it is. We have the right to self-determination in the Netherlands. That's a legal framework, including this law. Women can make their own informed decision. It is women's hatred to treat and belittle women in this way, also in a medical context. Mr Van Houwelingen may think otherwise, but as a woman I think I am the one who can judge it at the end of the day. My judgment is that it's pure misogynistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u181	Yes, it will be clear that we do not agree with that. It's bullshit. You have such a big mouth about the right to self-determination. For example, you voted against our motion to exclude a fine or detention of unvaccinated people. So you do not even rule out the possibility that, if we are unvaccinated, we will all be locked up. You now come here to say that we do not respect the self-determination of women, but you do not respect self-determination in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u182	Thank you. Everyone would like to speak through the chairman. Then I'll go to Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u183	For a party so high up on self-determination, I find it rather unbelievable, like Mrs Ploumen, that these words clearly do not apply to women. I have a substantive question. Mr Van Houwelingen has just tabled an amendment in which he says that women should be forced to see their own echo. The different laws we have on medical treatment are all about the relationship between women and doctors. Doctors have to provide proper care. There are two laws in which a doctor is forced to impose something. That is, among other things, the Law on compulsory mental health care. I would like to ask Mr Van Houwelingen what target groups are involved in this law. So what target groups are they talking about in laws that allow compulsory treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u184	I am, of course, talking about our own amendment. We have been in contact with Bureau of Legislation on this matter. Ideally, I totally agree with you. Of course, the father should join us. Sometimes it's just hard to determine who the sire is. That is why we have formulated it in such a way. Of course, it's actually addressed to both parents. It doesn't just concern women, if you want to get that out. Yeah, that's the target group. Again, we see obligations more often. You have just said it: the period of reflection. You also do this, for example: you do not exclude a vaccination obligation, or at least penalties for unvaccinated people. You're acting like this is so bad. So it is already common practice in the US in some states. Again, why are we doing this? We don't do it to bully women or fathers or anything. We think it is a very far-reaching decision, and we want it to be taken carefully. It's something you shouldn't be doing lightly at all. If that five-day period of reflection is to come to an end, and it looks like it will, because that is what we are going to achieve, then our request is to at least insert it. That's it. It's a very reasonable thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u185	I'm just trying to get it to the point. We have two laws, I have just said, which allow people, against their will, to undergo forced treatment: the Health and Force Act and the Law on compulsory mental health care. I asked which target groups were involved. I can fill that out for Mr Van Houwelingen. These are people who are heavy and severely addicted, for example, who cannot take good care of themselves. They're people with very serious mental problems. It's about people who are incompetent. What Mr Van Houwelingen is doing with this law is going against all the laws relating to human health. The amendment is in line with this group. I would ask Mr Van Houwelingen to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u186	Thank you for the question. Mandatory treatment: so you put it this way. But we also deliberately introduced those ten weeks. It's an external echo, on the abdomen. That is not, of course, what would be much worse... I really do not understand the excitement about this, because once again: the majority in this Chamber does not exclude a vaccination obligation. Of course, that's a thousand times worse. You say: oh, I'm sorry you'd like to impose a simple echo. It is a question of protecting an unborn life. That's our reason for that. Of course, that vaccination obligation does not make any sense at all. So I don't understand this excitement. I think it's hypocritical, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u187	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u188	I was just explaining that in the Netherlands you cannot just allow compulsory treatment in law, not even small compulsory treatment. I would like to ask Mr Van Houwelingen: how does he see that in practice? Are doctors going to tie up women to make them watch their echoes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u189	I see you want to respond, Mr Van Houwelingen, but Mrs Westerveld is speaking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u190	How are they supposed to do that in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u191	There are already examples of this in the United States, so it doesn't come out of nowhere. How does it happen over there? There it goes. If you want an abortion, you go to an abortion clinic. Before you get the abortion, if you want to get it, there's just an external echo. That's what it is. You don't get tied up or anything. Otherwise, you won't get the abortion. That is a very good technical arrangement; that is nothing at all... and again: it is to compensate for the period of reflection, which is now going to go off with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u192	I am a little silent about the amendment tabled by Mr Van Houwelingen on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, and also a little... Well, "gone" might not be the right word. I had taken this into account, so I also read Mr Van Houwelingen's election programme. I didn't find anything in that regard about abortion, so I often find nothing in Mr Van Houwelingen's party's election programme about certain points of view, even though I hear more and more extreme views about this in the Chamber. They're offensive to all those women who are sitting at home right now and listening to Mr. Van Houwelingen's story. I'm glad that... actually, I'm not happy at all. You yourself referred a number of times to American practices. I also had this association: Trumpian horror practices in...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u193	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u194	...in this room. It's not in your election program. I will go along with Mrs Ploumen's words: what is this, other than women's hatred?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u195	With all due respect, this is a really ridiculous question. We do have an election program. That is one of the thickest, I think, with over 100 pages, in which we deal with everything. You are right, you have a point that it is not there. We have also discussed this for a long time in the group this week. For us it is also a dilemma, as for many here in the Chamber. I'm not standing here in a gray suit for nothing, so to speak. They're gray tones. We are not absolutely in this as the SGP may be, of: it should never be. We're actually feeling like we're still hovering in between. It's hard for us, too. These are the thoughts that we have now. In our next election programme, we will undoubtedly continue to develop this. But that doesn't matter here, does it? What exactly, literally... at least it's not in conflict with our election program. So I don't think you have anything to complain about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u196	Mr. Van Houwelingen sketches a dilemma, but I'm just looking into what that dilemma is. You are actually going beyond the SGP colleague. You're imposing measures on women against their free will. Then what is the dilemma and what is your consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u197	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Pauluma, for you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u198	That dilemma is, of course, also well known. Abortion is just a huge dilemma; we've been talking about that all night. On the one hand, of course, you have the woman's right to self-determination, on the other hand, you have the unborn life. That's the dilemma. There is, of course, a great deal of discussion about this, in all kinds of countries and now here too. What else do I have to explain?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u199	Mrs Hermans, VVD, and then Mr Hijink, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u200	What does the proposal actually say that Mr Van Houwelingen is laying down here? That a woman doesn't know what she's doing? That a woman doesn't realize what an incredibly complicated choice she stands for? That a woman is unable, in consultation with family, friends and the doctor, to come to this difficult decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u201	Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u202	Then I have news for Mr Van Houwelingen: women are really capable of doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u203	Thank you for the question, which gives me the opportunity to summarize briefly. This proposal, this amendment which is before us, aims at three things. Point one is to protect and protect extra, as an additional guarantee, of unborn life. The second is the prevention of remorse on the part of the parents of whom I have just mentioned many examples. And Mrs. Van der Plas also mentioned it. Regrets that may arise from the parents, not only from the wife; for us it is always the parents, father and mother. That's life, that's not five days. And then the third. We want a society in which life is cherished instead of being broken down. We are just very sorry that we are going to live in a society in which you have three days to think about a house, one day for a cosmetic surgery and two weeks for an internet purchase, but in which you can have an abortion on the day. That is what this amendment is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u204	Finally, Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u205	There are, of course, very serious objections to this amendment. Mrs Westerveld is right that the Forum for Democracy introduces a form of coercion into abortion practice. The careful conversation that must take place between the healthcare provider, the doctor, and the woman in question must be based on trust and not on a form of coercion that the Forum for Democracy wants to introduce, namely: you will have to look at this image of an echo. That's derogatory. That reduces the woman to an incompetent person. It must, apparently, be convinced by this form of coercion of a particular decision which it should take. I would like to add one more element. The amendment also states that an exception is made for situations where pregnancy has been caused by unwanted sexual intrusion: fornication, rape, etc. So the element that you're adding is that in that speaking room, where that good conversation should take place, a woman must also prove to the doctor, it's in your amendment, Mr. Van Houwelingen, that pregnancy is caused by unwanted sexual behavior: rape, incest, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u206	And your question to Mr Van Houwelingen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u207	My question is: where is the respect for the woman who faces a very difficult decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u208	We have a great deal of respect for that. It is precisely because we think it is such an important decision that we consider it essential that the parents take all the information. You say that is not technically feasible. But it's happening. A declaration is sufficient in this case. Of course, the woman doesn't have to tell everything in the office. If she says she was assaulted, you can check with the police. So that's gonna be okay. I'm trying to understand your core question. I can feel it a little bit. It may be humiliating, but of course it is not meant to be. It's an extra security deposit. This guarantee isn't just aimed at the woman. Mom and Dad should be watching that together. And coercion? What's the compulsion? You don't get tied up or anything. It's just looking at an echo. That's different from a vaccination obligation. It's ten times worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u209	We're just not talking about that today. Other debates are on the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u210	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr Van Houwelingen now acknowledges that the proposal he is making may seem humiliating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u212	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u213	Yes, that's exactly what you're saying. That's exactly what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u214	I'd like to go through the chairman. Mr Hijink, and then Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u215	Mr Van Houwelingen has just said quite literally: I understand that this proposal may seem humiliating to women. Well, it can't happen like that alone, it's basically a humiliation. I think that's how you describe it in a very nice way. Here's what I want to ask you. We can think differently about deadlines, whether or not abortion. This can be either a principle or a belief. But this is about respect. This is about the dignity of women who face perhaps one of the most difficult decisions in their lives. What makes me so angry about your proposal is that you are putting women's autonomy at risk here. So you do not respect the women who are already facing a very difficult choice. You're actually giving them another kick by treating them this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr Van Houwelingen and then Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u217	What makes us so angry is that in this discussion, apart from a few parties in the Chamber, the value of unborn life obviously does not matter at all. I barely hear about it. That's what we're sorry about. Again, I say it again: it is a dilemma. You don't have an optimal solution here or anything. We want to defend unborn life here. Of course, this must be done in a way that ensures optimal self-determination for both father and mother. So this is the choice we make. It can always have nasty consequences, but this is ultimately our consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u218	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u219	The value and protection of unborn life are not absolute. You can think different about that. That is also considered very differently. There are parties who find, also from faith belief, that that protection is absolute from the very first moment of conception. Maybe you feel the same way. I see you don't feel that way. It's possible. I don't really care about that either. You can disagree on that. This can also mean that you come to another analysis or another thought about when an abortion should or should not take place. I am concerned that with the plan you are now submitting, you are interfering with the careful conversation that must take place in that office. You shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u220	I'll be very brief. For us, this makes the conversation extra careful, because you get, as it were, all the information that is necessary. From ten weeks on, the baby even has ears. It's all full-grown. That's what people have to take. We believe that this is very important for a good decision. So for us it only makes it more careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u221	I see another interruption by Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u222	For a while I doubted whether I would interrupt, also because I certainly endorse the value of unborn life. Absolutely. But what I find difficult about Mr Van Houwelingen's amendment is that for many of these women there will have been an echo, precisely to determine the time limit for pregnancy. I wonder whether Mr Van Houwelingen is aware of this, including in his amendment. He says, after ten weeks, this echo must take place. So that could mean that this is happening quite quickly. Is he aware of what this means to these women? I think Mr Van Houwelingen might have suspected that there would be a great deal of discomfort about the position of women. Yet he does not aim his arrows at the sire, if I may put it that way, at the father. So Forum says to the woman "come and echo again," while the amendment does not mention the father. I'd like to give you that thought. I was doubting it, and that's why I need a slightly longer interruption. But when I read this like this, it speaks of a kind of coldness to the woman who has to return to the abortion clinic after a short time. However much Mr Van Houwelingen may mean it to the unborn life, that is what I would like to give him for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u223	I totally agree with you. We've had a discussion about this. It turns out it's hard to write this down legally. We'd like to drag that father in, too. Let's just leave it at that. If you know a way to regulate it in such a way that it can be done in practice, then we are all in favour of it. It is the father and the mother who are responsible for this. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u224	Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u225	I would like to thank the authors for their presence, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the MPs, the people looking at home and our guest, Mrs Dijkstra, and of course also the support staff who is present and has worked very hard on the proposal. Among them are Mr.Youri Rijkhoff and Daniel de Rijke, the golden duo. We will continue the debate on this proposal next week. As planned, it will be next Wednesday. Thank you for being here.
