ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	I welcome you to this main debate on the government's climate plans. In particular, the Minister for Climate and Energy. Mr Erkens has also asked to invite the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. That's what happened, but she's been tested positive. We shall therefore have to deny her presence today. We're gonna wear this manly, but you're gonna have to take it into account. We have allocated about six hours to the debate. The end time is scheduled at 4.30 p.m. It's not mandatory to go on for that long, I say. There are 16 speakers. This means that we need to structure things somewhat. I've made a global plan. It is a major debate, so many aspects of the climate plans will be discussed at a later stage. I would ask that it be limited to the main points. In the first term of the Chamber, I offer room for four questions for everyone. You can put them all in a row, focusing on one theme. You may also distribute them over the first term. That's up to you. If I see that the debate is going smoothly in the first term, then at the end I can give a little more room for some extra questions. I think that we have such a rather tight structure, so that we also have enough room for questioning the Minister in the first term of office, after which we can have a decent second term. Does that agree with all of you? Thanks, then we're gonna fly it that way. I think we can start the debate. I haven't received any cancellations or details to report. I suggest we get started. As the first speaker, I invite Mr Erkens to make his contribution. He speaks on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the climate plans of the new government. The VVD is pleased with the direction taken. We increase ambition, but do so in a way that is realistic. We are going to focus on matters where we can really make a difference, namely an accelerated sustainability of the big Dutch industry. An additional advantage is that the sustainability of our industry ensures that we can strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands, provided we do it properly. At the same time, we are debating in the shadow of geopolitical developments in Eastern Europe. These developments make it clear that a large energy dependency of countries like Russia makes us extremely vulnerable. We must therefore quickly reduce our dependence on Russia, but also on other non-free countries, in the field of energy. Firstly, rapid action is needed to ensure the reliability of our gas supply for the coming winter. Is the cabinet prepared to designate GasTerra or Gasunie to give substance to the coalition agreement's intention to fill the gas reserves? Will the Cabinet ensure more long-term contracts, for example from the US? Does the Cabinet see any other measures that could help for the coming winter? Secondly, we must also look beyond the coming winter. We can no longer rely on large, national energy and gas production. That vulnerability must be greatly reduced in the long term. Is the cabinet prepared to come up with a strategy to reduce our dependence on Russian gas as much as possible? And is the cabinet prepared to report annually through a gas monitor? Thirdly, we need to look even further at the energy supply of the future. We must not become dependent again on other countries. This means: sufficient production of energy on home soil, for example through nuclear energy and hydrogen production on home soil. It also means that what we import must come as far as possible from friendly, mostly European, countries. Is the Minister prepared to explore how we can become more self-sufficient in this too, or at least largely import from allies and free countries? In order to further increase the reliability of our energy supply, the VVD wants to make strong use of nuclear energy. Crazy nuclear power plants are sometimes called climate power plants, because they are the cleanest energy source. The VVD has developed a roadmap to start building in three years' time. We'll hand that plan over to the minister. A number of questions to the Minister on the most urgent issues. When will he come forward with a proposal, including financial means, to strengthen the nuclear knowledge infrastructure? And when will he come forward with a proposal on the role of the government in the coordination and construction of nuclear power plants? Is the Minister also prepared to indicate, in the short term, by letter of parliament, how he intends to implement the coalition agreement's intention? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the reliability of our energy supply, the VVD also attaches great importance to affordability for households and entrepreneurs. Geopolitical developments in Eastern Europe, combined with the global shortage of gas, have dramatically increased our energy prices. I see Mrs Teunissen wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	Please finish your remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	The previous cabinet has earmarked compensation for the energy bill. But it is also a good thing that the government soon looks at the impact of these energy prices on different groups and on the purchasing power of these groups. At the same time, there will be no magical solution and we must also take action to ensure that we do not end up in the same situation over and over again in this Chamber in winter and winter. This means accelerating a number of things that help to bring down the energy bill, such as a quick implementation of our ambition in the area of home insulation, hybrid heat pumps, the decoupling of gas and heat tariffs, but also better consumer protection against cowboys in the energy market and against opaque contracts. Is the Minister prepared to implement these measures as soon as possible? And can he make it clear what is going to happen in concrete terms over the coming months in order to speed up these cost-saving measures? Is he prepared to ensure in this policy that the most affected households, with high gas consumption by poorly isolated homes, are the first to be helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mrs Teunissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u6	When I hear the story of the VVD, I wonder how the VVD is going to achieve the climate goals. I hear Mr Erkens talking about liquid gas and the conclusion of long-term contracts, but I also hear him come back to all kinds of fake solutions, such as CCS and nuclear energy. Also in terms of cost efficiency, I question the VVD's argument, because when we look at nuclear energy, we see that nuclear energy is now twice as expensive as wind energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u7	I suggest that you come to your question and that you give a place to the justification of your speech in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u8	This was my introduction, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to my question. Nuclear energy is currently twice as expensive as wind energy. Then it is not a good investment in the future to put 5 billion into nuclear energy now, when we know that this is going to be much and much more expensive than if we are now focusing on renewable energy, sun and wind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u9	We believe it is an excellent idea, because we need to look at energy that is fully sustainable in the future, but which is also reliable. There are times when the wind doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine. Then nuclear energy is an excellent basis for our energy system. In this combination, we can set up a sustainable energy system. The VVD is also for the expansion of wind at sea and sun on the roof. That's all in the coalition agreement. It is precisely this balanced mix that is going to create an energy system that will not emit CO in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u10	A follow-up question from Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u11	It has now become a myth that wind energy and solar energy would not be stable, because we also have storage. And you can work on storage. You can expand it, too. It is simply very foolish not to do so now and to spend up to 5 billion on nuclear power plants, which could not be operational until 2035. We just don't have that time. So I would like to ask Mr Erkens whether he would like to look into this storage and the possibilities for it. Then let's see if nuclear power is such a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u12	Maybe a double answer. It's en-and-and. We also have in the coalition agreement that we are going to look at hydrogen storage in the future. That too is necessary, but we need so much renewable energy in the future that we really do not have the luxury of excluding nuclear energy. If you look at the cost aspect of nuclear energy, you will see that the energy networks in the Netherlands are already filling up. This is also due to renewable energy that is connected to it. Nuclear energy also reduces the costs for the grid. If you look at the overall system, they already have that in the United Kingdom, and you see that a sustainable energy system will be cheaper with nuclear energy in the future than without nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs Teunissen asks her third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Erkens now assumes that our energy demand can continue to rise and grow in the same way. I dare him anyway. Is he also willing to look at the energy needs? What does the Netherlands really need? And what can we save on? Is that something the VVD wants to go with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u15	Energy saving also plays an important role in a transition; I will not deny that. But it's also an illusion to think that it's the only way to get there. For example, if we want to make the industry in the Netherlands more sustainable, electricity needs will increase even further. We do make the choice that it is better to solve the climate problem in the Netherlands. For example, steel or chemical products will continue to be bought together in the future. And we're gonna need them, too. So we need to find a solution here and we need to find out how this industry can produce sustainably. And that just takes more energy. I am really willing to look in there at as much energy savings and efficiency as possible. I think that is also necessary. But that too is another en-en-story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u16	Enough? Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u17	I want to compliment the VVD. It is good that there is such a plan to build a nuclear power plant in three years' time, or perhaps more. I'm very curious about the content. I have a specific question as to whether this means that during this cabinet period we are really going to put the shovel in the ground, so are we really going to build physically? Or does it mean that we begin the process in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u18	A number of things still have to be done before we can build nuclear power plants. We need to strengthen the nuclear knowledge infrastructure in the Netherlands. It is now obsolete and has not been invested in it for decades either. We need to define the role of the government. We need to convince market players that there is also a stable investment climate. We'll have to take those steps first. As far as I'm concerned, we'll start construction as soon as possible. But we're not there yet. That is why the coalition agreement states that all these conditions must now be regulated. But it also states, for example, that a tender can already be opened now, which actually means that the investment decision falls over this cabinet period, and that it is therefore irreversible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u19	Enough? I call Mr Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u20	From Haga, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u21	It's "Van Haga." Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Erkens is right to talk about dependence on Russian gas. Of course, BVNL is also concerned about this. But we close the gas field in Groningen at the same time. We've shut down all kinds of coal power plants under VVD control. And three years ago, fortunately, the VVD made the turn to nuclear power. Suddenly nuclear energy was included in the electoral programme. My question is: shouldn't we have done that differently? Shouldn't we have created a stable form of energy that could replace all of this? Now we're doing it in the wrong order. Now we first build our stable energy forms, only then to make plans for nuclear power plants and other forms of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u23	I think Mr Van Haga is making a good point here. If you move to a fully sustainable energy form, you should also be aware of the transition period in between. For example, in 2030, we will still use gas in some areas. It is not possible for us to abandon the use of fossil fuels completely. That's just the honest story in here. As far as I'm concerned, we need to focus on that transition period. I think we agree on that, too. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister: can we still do this with the import of LNG? What are other things that are possible? And these nuclear power plants need to be put in place as soon as possible, also in view of the planned phasing-out of coal plants. So you shouldn't throw away your old shoes before your new shoes arrive. That is what we are now working on, through the construction of nuclear power stations, with the investment in wind at sea, with hydrogen production and so on. But Mr Van Haga has a fair point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u24	There is a follow-up question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u25	It's very unusual for me to just get right here. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u26	It surprises you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u27	Yes. This surprises me completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u28	Look, we've got these book rods in the annals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u29	Yes. Without further ado for that. But in the last few years we have of course put solar fields, we have implemented windmills, we have quickly started working with CCS. Those are all kinds of things that I don't think contribute to this transition in which you do it in the right order. Now we come under the leadership of the VVD with a 25 billion nitrogen fund and a 35 billion climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u30	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u31	My question is this. The VVD-chooser didn't actually choose this at all. I think the VVD-chooser like me knows him or her can do the math. I think the VVD-chooser would have preferred to do all this in the right order. So don't you think it's a little bit that the voter didn't choose for this and actually wanted it to be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr. Erkens, can you agree with him again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u33	In this case, I am not going to agree with Mr Van Haga. The voter... Let me not talk about the voter; in my opinion, people in the country just think it is important that we come up with a serious response to climate change and that we are going to make our economy more sustainable in a smart way. This means that we must also take into account the reliability of the energy system in that interim period, in that transition to that fully sustainable energy mix, to that fully sustainable economy. This can indeed be done through nuclear power stations, but also by other means that we are now working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr Kops for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u35	What Mr Erkens said about the rising energy bill is, of course, not enough. He said he's willing to look at the impact on households. I can tell Mr Erkens that impact; it is huge. The CBS has announced that the energy bill will increase by €1,300 per year, i.e. by more than €100 per month. People just can't afford that. My question to the VVD is then: what is the solution? Mr Erkens mentioned heat pumps and insulation. Then I can also tell Mr Erkens that there is no isolation against this €1,300 increase in the energy bill. What is the VVD going to do for all those households who simply can't afford the energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u36	I think there are two aspects to this discussion. On the one hand, we have the acute situation that many households and entrepreneurs are now facing. Mr Kops is right to do so. The previous cabinet has already opted for compensation on that point. At the same time, we can see that this energy price is so high, that many people and entrepreneurs are still in trouble. What we are saying is that the figures will come in a few weeks; what group will be affected in what way? Then we also want to see if there is anything possible for the worst affected households. These are often people who have poorly isolated homes and high gas consumption. Because you also know that the CBS figures are an average across the board. So some people are even more affected. We're gonna take a careful look at that. Those numbers are coming in about two weeks, so it's really not like we're gonna have to wait months. That is why we are going to decide the next steps. The second aspect is that we have had to deal with the gas market and the situation in Eastern Europe. We do not know how long it will last and the VVD believes that we should also look at how we can prevent the same discussion every year in this Chamber about how to compensate people because the energy bill is priceless. This means, on the one hand, making use of the possibility of saving energy in people's homes. That's in isolation, but you're not gonna get rid of everything with that. But it is also in the reliability of the energy supply, so that we simply have sufficient and affordable energy and no longer depend on Russia, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr Knops has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u38	That's a long story, but the conclusion is that the VVD is not going to do anything. People can't afford the energy bill anymore. We can then, as Mr Erkens says, wait for figures, but what good is that for people? People need to be compensated now. The compensation already promised by the cabinet, which Mr Erkens is talking about, is, of course, far from enough. So people get into trouble after all. I would like to ask Mr Erkens a question. The D66 Minister of Finance, who is therefore of your cabinet, has already indicated that he does not want to compensate households extra. And this D66 climate minister says he wants to get rid of the principle of "feasible and affordable." You can't be serious, can you? How does the VVD feel about that? Does the VVD distance itself from that madness of D66 and is the VVD just going to lower people's energy bill and make it affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u39	I think each one is about his own words. For the VVD, affordability of the energy account remains important. You can also ask the Minister about how he looks at this in your term of office, but at least we consider affordability to be important, Mr Kops. In addition, I have just indicated that the VVD does not believe that nothing should happen. We've made compensation. We indicate that there is still a need to look. It's really not about months of waiting; in two weeks those numbers will come. Which group is hit hardest and what room is there to help there? That is what we say, but we also say: look at the long term, because we must avoid having the same discussion here every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u40	A third question from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u41	No, the conclusion is that the VVD doesn't think affordability is important at all. The VVD doesn't do anything extra for the people at home. Then the question is: why does the VVD keep clinging to a party like D66, a D66 minister who says "no, we're not gonna do anything for the people" and another D66 minister who says "no, we need to get rid of the principle of "feasible and affordable"? Why doesn't the VVD just distance themselves from that? Mr Erkens has a flaming argument about nuclear power. We largely agree with that. That is fine, but this D66 climate minister also said that he does not find a solution to nuclear energy at all and that he only wants solar energy, wind energy and hydrogen, but does not want nuclear energy at all. So why does the VVD always cling to a party like D66, who's just very bad for our energy supply in the Netherlands and who's very bad for the affordability of household energy bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u42	For the third time, I can give the same answer: we do not let our ears hang at each other. I believe that we all have our own position, we have a coalition agreement with each other and that affordability is important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u43	Mr Azarkan has the floor for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u44	By the way, that was a long introduction to a non-question from Mr Kops. I have a question. Mr Erkens pointed out at the outset the situation in Russia and Ukraine and its likely impact on the gas account. He said: "That is an unfree country; we must get rid of it." Now it's easier said than done. But he also said: we have to do something with that kind of unfree countries. I was wondering if Mr Erkens could mention a number of other non-free countries where we are currently removing gas, electricity or other forms of energy. I can also imagine that we are buying in massive solar cells and we are not doing business with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u45	I believe that in the past we have made the mistake of being dependent on a very important source of energy from one region or from one country. That is what we saw in the oil crisis in the 1970s. Such an unfree country is willing to do so politically. That was the reality in the oil crisis. That is what we are now seeing with the gas crisis we are in. Here's what we're gonna say. Don't depend on one such country in the future. See what you can do yourself and what you can do with allies together. If you still have to import, then spread it across many countries. Make a conscious policy on this and do not be naive that these countries are not going to be politically engaged in energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u46	A follow-up question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u47	I didn't hear an answer to my question. My question was very specific. I repeat it, so it is simply the same question as just: can Mr Erkens mention a number of other countries where we are currently buying gas, electricity or solar cells massively and from which he asks the cabinet to come up with a plan not to be so dependent on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u48	I was just talking about the oil crisis in the 1970s. The OPEC countries were involved, so this was largely about the Middle East. We just talked about Russia. At the same time, we are also talking about China for lithium and solar panels, for example. Mr Azarkan probably points that out. There too, I think that we should be critical in future as a country whether this production can indeed depend entirely on one country or whether we, as Europe or as the West, with all its allies, should perhaps be less naive and see if we can produce more often ourselves and reduce that dependence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u49	No more follow-up question. Mr Thijssen has the floor for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u50	I am pleased to hear that the VVD says: we have to deal with the huge gas price increases. I also agree that the VVD says: we are going to look at the figures and we are going to do more targeted compensation this time. Last time, there was a three-and-a-half billion drop. This has also ended up with people in villas who can pay just a few hundred euros more for their gas bills and then maybe finally isolate their homes, which they should have done years ago. I'm curious: how much are we going to compensate? As Mr Kops has just said, the CBS has calculated that it is on average more than €1,000. Is the VVD planning to scatter a few hundred euros again or are we really going to help the agent, the teacher and the nurse and make sure that they get the €1,000 compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u51	I'm not gonna throw money around here right now. I think Mr Thijssen knows that very well. Even if you ask the question, of course you already know that. At the same time, I would like to mention, in the example he mentioned of the villa that also receives subsidies, that it is about affected households and often about small entrepreneurs. These are sometimes two middle-class earners who have children in childcare and who cannot bear that bill either. So let's go wider than it's just about the "How do you say"? Mr Thijssen refers to these groups. It could also be other households. We want to see which groups are most affected, how much it is, and how other policies affect or help people. Then we'll have to see what's necessary and what's possible, but I can't put a grade on this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u52	A follow-up question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u53	I agree with Mr Erkens. It is true that I am concerned with the people who cannot bear the bill and who must be helped. My example was about the assets that the VVD also refuses to tax and for which we have made a counter-budget. We, the Labour Party, believe that they can simply bear this increase in the price of gas. But I think this is a little too easy. Last time, you compensated by hundreds of euros. Now we know that there is an increase in prices of more than €1,000 on average. For some households it will be even more. Are you prepared to reimburse half or three quarters of that or to compensate 100%? What can the Netherlands count on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u54	I think it is a waste of the interruptions of Thijssen, because once again, I cannot spend any money here. In a few weeks we need to see what the impact is per group and what should be possible. I can't put a percentage or a sum on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u55	Now is the opportunity for Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u56	Mr Erkens says a lot of sensible things about awakening. He also says a lot of sensible things about putting a lot of effort into isolating, but I do not hear him say so much about how we can further reduce demand. Because part of the solution of becoming less energy dependent on unfree regimes is, of course, reducing demand. What is his commitment when it comes to reducing the demand for flying? What is his commitment and what does he want to give the Minister when it comes to reducing demand by those giga hyperscale data centers? We just received a weak letter from Minister De Jonge that Zeewolde will not be put in the way. We didn't submit an opinion, we didn't give a clue. In Hollands Kroon, data centres can still be developed. How does Mr Erkens feel about that? What is the commitment of the VVD and what does he give this minister, the coordinating ruler who also has to keep an eye on his colleague De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u57	I will go into exactly the part of Mr Grinwis' question about the hyperscale data centers. I think he is looking for this in the answer, not the wider context of energy saving. Look, I think we made a clear agreement in the coalition agreement. It says that there needs to be a balancing framework for how we deal with hyperscale data centers. We know that hyperscale data centers require a lot of energy, a lot of energy, sometimes as much as a province. We do not yet have that balancing framework. The VVD therefore considers it unwise to keep the door open in a number of regions and to continue building before that balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr Boucke's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u59	My party's name has been mentioned a few times in interrupting debates with Mr Erkens. I would like to give Mr Erkens: wear the D66-light button with pride, because we have good climate plans. The VVD has incorporated a large part of that into the coalition agreement. So I say to Mr Erkens: do not let the PVV upset you. But my question to Mr Erkens is about something else. Mr Erkens spoke about energy independence. Mr Erkens also mentioned our climate goals. But what did I see Mr Erkens do on television a few weeks ago? He pulls one card out of the house of cards that we built together to get to 60%. Does Mr Erkens agree with me that if we pull one card out of that house of cards, we should immediately put another card in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mrs Leijten, you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u61	Yes, Mr President, I have a point of order. You rightly call on Members of Parliament to keep their introduction brief. I would ask you to do this not only to female MPs, but to all MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u62	I think I just asked where that was going: your question? That's the way I'm trying to encourage. Mr Boucke has now asked his question. Mr Erkens can respond to that. A point of order, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u63	May I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u64	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u65	In any case, it was striking that I was broken down in my introduction, while Mr Boucke was given the opportunity to make an extensive introduction. I would therefore ask you to take a good look at the fact that everyone is keeping it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u66	I'm very sorry, but you weren't the only one I broke down in a similar way. Mr Erkens has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u67	I like to take off the D66-light button very quickly, if it was stuck on it. In my opinion, there are also many points that the VVD considers important in its climate and energy policy: focusing on industry, strengthening earning capacity, domestic production, nuclear power plants. We can go on for a while, but let's not get the whole coalition agreement together now. In my opinion, Mr Boucke refers in this case to the windmills on land. I continue to think it is a false contradiction: saying to each other that we can have inappropriate standards for windmills on land without compromising energy targets. That is often the contradiction that is being made: either you agree to standards that are not strict enough, or we are not going to meet the climate targets. As far as I'm concerned, that's not true. I think we just need to ensure proper standards. In the middle of next year, the Empire will also set new standards, which are now being developed. What matters to me is that, in the meantime, we should not see an arbitrary set of local standards with a difference between municipality a and b. We just need to make sure of that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u68	That wasn't my question either. We're going for 60%. Does Mr Erkens agree with me that this should always add to 60% and that, if we pull out one measure, any one, another should replace it? That's my question. I can't be any brighter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u69	A follow-up reaction by Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u70	We have agreed to target 60%, indeed. The policy which the Minister wants to propose for his policy plan, which I believe will come in May, must also be increased to 60%; I agree with Mr Boucke. At the same time, we have said that reality can be unwieldy in the years to come. So that's why we now want to legally establish that it's at least 55%, but the policy should add up to 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u71	Another question from Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u72	A very long introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u73	I'll keep you tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u74	Mr. Chairman. I think it is a very fair question from Mr Boucke. And I also understand the concern of D66 as a coalition partner, that they think: we have a party on board who had an election programme that did not reach the previous climate targets by far. GroenLinks put it through. Well, that came out somewhere in the under 40s. And now all of a sudden there's a member of parliament standing for that 60%. Only, if it gets tough, does the VVD still stand for that 60%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u75	We negotiated the coalition agreement with each other. The VVD is also in favour of an ambitious climate policy. And we have signed that we are aiming for 60% as a policy, but that we do take into account that it may sometimes be disappointing in practice in the coming years. That is why we say at least 55%, in particular to ensure that if we do not make it we will have legal procedures again and so on. And I don't think anyone in this room needs that. I think we want to look at what is feasible. That's why we're gonna strive for 60%, and we're gonna do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u76	A follow-up question from Mrs Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u77	Yes, Mr. Chairman. On another point, because this line Mr. Erkens has learned well from his head, so we keep it up. We're gonna see what it's really gonna come out of over the next few months, if that bill is there. Still, about nuclear power. A number of questions have been asked. What really amazes me is when you look at the costs. I assume that Mr Erkens agrees with me that you should all include the costs of waste disposal, the cost of final disposal, the cost of cleaning up the power stations, in the business case. At least economically, regardless of what you think for the rest of it, it is a very irrational choice when there is so much cheap solar and wind energy, to spend tens of hours a year on expensive nuclear energy. That's from an irrationality I don't know from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u78	We also have this cost-effectiveness at the heart of our work. And we really do have a different picture of that than our colleague from GroenLinks. We believe that nuclear energy in the energy system reduces the cost of the energy system. We have seen that France has opted for nuclear energy. There the energy costs are lower than, for example, in Germany, where almost 400 to 500 billion have been spent since then on the introduction of wind and sun, and I think they are now at a quarter more expensive electricity, or such a number. So we see that this can also be very expensive. You need to focus on a balanced mix in that sustainable energy system of the future. We believe that we cannot do that without nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u79	A third question from Mrs Kröger? No. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u80	Mr. Chairman. We are also going to talk today about 35 billion to reach the climate targets, and at the same time people are in the cold at home because they are afraid to turn on the heat. How can the VVD explain that there is at least 35 billion available for polluters who have never paid taxes, but people cannot pay their energy bills and turn off their stove?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u81	Then I must correct what Leijten says, because that is simply not right. The 35 billion is also allocated in part to the insulation of homes and hybrid heat pumps, precisely in the built environment, in the people's home, so that they are warmer at lower costs. We also invest in our own energy production and our own energy system, which makes it more reliable in the long term and can also ensure that we do not face these high prices every year. That also requires investment. That is what the climate fund is trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u82	A follow-up question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u83	In recent years, the polluting industry has never been asked to pay a contribution, and now they are receiving subsidies. And at the same time, people can't turn on the stove. Today, it's all in the papers that people won't turn on the stove until -10. And Mr. Erkens knows the people who it is. "This poverty is not being solved," the Minister of Finance said, "we are not going to compensate." At the same time, VNO-NCW is fishing for that 35 billion. How can Mr Erkens explain that this cabinet has 35 billion for large companies, but does nothing about people in the cold?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u84	Whatever I just said, the frame just doesn't add up. There is no 35 billion in subsidies to large companies. First of all, these companies are also paying off these days. That's a good thing. Europe has a CO levy on this large industry. That price has really gone up. Many companies are already struggling to pay for it. In addition, the Netherlands is the only country in the world, I believe, but at least in Europe, with a marginal CO levy. We are also going to introduce a minimum CO levy. So these companies are going to pay for it. We're gonna make tailor-made arrangements with the industry. It simply contains hard results obligations, and also things that we demand from those companies. So it really isn't a box subsidy, as Mrs Leijten wants it to look like here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u85	Another follow-up question, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u86	On that condition, I'm going to pin down the minister, because I haven't seen them yet. They're all empty words. We have also been able to read how the cabinet has been lobbied away for years by VNO-NCW in relation to environmental and climate policy. Because "the polluter pays" is super effective, but never came. Those people in the cold, this cabinet says, "There's nothing we can do." Last Friday, the Minister of Finance said this. But if Tata Steel or Shell needs money, they say we have 35 billion standing by. And that's inexplicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u87	I can tell you for the third time that there is not 35 billion ready for the big industry. There are also billions in it to isolate the homes from the people who are now in the cold. I also said that, in a few weeks' time, we must also look at which groups are most affected and what is possible for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u88	Mr Azarkan also wishes to put his next question to Mr Erkens. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u89	About that "affordable and feasible" the Minister said in a recent interview that he didn't really want to hear it anymore. I think that is actually a good starting point. But I wonder who it's affordable for. When I look at the figures I don't take 2022, but 2021 I see that a household paid €0,09 electricity tax. But a company that uses more than 10 million kilowatt hours of electricity pays virtually nothing, pays 200 times less. So if Mr. Erkens is talking about affordability, does he mean that the citizen pays it, with the small wallet, to give it to the companies? Is that what he means by affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u90	Definitely not. It must remain affordable for households and small entrepreneurs. We think that's important. That's what the coalition agreement says. The point raised by Mr Azarkan is justified. That is why we have also included in the coalition agreement that the ratio between what households pay and what big companies pay will be adjusted in the future. That's what the coalition agreement says. You can check it out. This must probably be done from the Europe's 'Fit for 55' package, because that ratio is now missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u91	You want to spend your last question on this, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u92	No, it's not my last, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u93	Yeah, yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u94	... because the previous ones were two, but then I didn't get an answer. This is my third question. I use it here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u95	Let me be clear: this is the fourth question you are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u96	No, Mr. Chairman, you have just been addressed on suspicion of partiality. I won't go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u97	No, this is lame. I'm trying to do it objectively. You are now asking the fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u98	Mr President, on a point of order. I'm getting a little tired and sad from this way of debating. Also from Mrs Leijten, who says here that the chairman looks at women and breaks them down, instead of men... it's not about anything at all. It's not about anything. Now again, Mr. Azarkan. My point is, if it's agreed that we have four interruptions... I'm keeping them for myself, too, for the moment I want to fire them. You're trying to put them all in here in a row. Fine, but it'll end sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u99	I have a point of order. It is good that Mr Eerdmans also found the Chamber. We've been at it for a while. Mr President, on a point of order. In the discussions I had with the President, it was agreed that the President will look very closely at whether there will be an answer. I asked a very specific question. The first question was very specific. Mr Erkens did not answer that question. I repeated the same question. It was about a number of countries. And then I ran away. I said that I asked for an answer to that. I didn't ask for everything else he wanted to get rid of. I would ask you to accompany this very well, but if you believe that this is my fourth question, then so be it. Then I'll accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u100	This is your fourth question. The President shall not deal with the content of the replies of either the executive or the colleague. Everyone is free to place the questions whenever they want, but if we have agreed on four questions in principle, then we will stick to them. In the course of the debate we can see if there is more room. We have agreed to these rules and then we must respect them. It is my responsibility as President-in-Office to guard that. I do so in good conscience and as well and as carefully as possible, but if that is called into question, then the basis for the orderly conduct of this sitting will simply disappear. So I have no choice but to meet you in the same way as others. You may now ask your fourth question if you wish, but you may also suspend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u101	I certainly do not doubt your intention and I am glad that you are prepared to chair the debate, for which I am grateful. I think you should be open to saying that if a colleague notices something that you do not notice, it is sometimes so, and then we can go on. I'll save my question for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you. Mr. Erkens, were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u103	Almost, Mr. Chairman. I have another afterburner, which Mr Boucke hinted at in his interruption. It is important that we do not lose sight of the support for the energy transition. I understand the tension between care and speed. Indeed, two weeks ago, I called for a pause button for wind on land. The only other solution I can see is for the Minister to come up with temporary standards and set them in the direction of municipalities and provinces. My question to him is: is he prepared to agree on these rules with municipalities and provinces as soon as possible, including a distance standard, pending the final new standards and, if so, when? Is he also prepared to apply the Danish model for the time being, because this seems to be fairly well-founded and Denmark is a country that is at the forefront in this area and certainly has given it a lot of thought? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u104	Thank you for your input. Mrs Teunissen now has the floor and she speaks on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u105	Mr President, thank you. This is the first major debate we have with the Minister for Climate and Energy. I'm really looking forward to the discussions with him. Mr. Chairman. The climate problem, the nitrogen crisis, the nature crisis and the threat of new pandemics. They're bad enough on their own, but they're all symptoms of the same thing. The constant blind staring at economic growth has led to the total disruption of our ecosystem. You cannot solve these coherent crises with symptom reduction but only with a fundamental change of course in which we move towards economic development within the limits of what the Earth can handle. This means tackling these problems in a coherent way and making courageous choices. We therefore expect much of the direction that the Minister for Climate and Energy intends to take. Can the Minister explain what his mandate is? If, for example, the Minister of IenW wants to fly more, can he stop her? When we look at the climate plans of the cabinet, we do not yet see the fundamental change of course that is needed. Take, for example, the National Energy System Plan 2050, which is based on current and growing energy demand, while the question is not asked what our energy needs are in the future and what we can afford within those ecological limits. The Animal Party believes that this question should be asked first. Do we need another oil refinery if we have to keep oil in the ground? Isn't there another way we can make those products? Do we still need fertilizer if we are moving towards a sustainable farming society? Did the Minister ask questions like this? What energy needs is desirable? I'd like a response. As in the past few decades, we are seeing a huge belief in technological solutions, such as CCS, but also CO-free gas, which one can wonder if it really exists, and a hydrogen economy. That is all in the plans, but if we look at the plans that we have known for decades that they are effective, the necessary volume measures or no-regret measures are missing. Think of the shrinkage in aviation, but also of the reduction in meat consumption. The rapid reduction of meat consumption is still not receiving any attention, while this results in double climate gains, according to a study by Leiden University last month. However, the profits are not only in reducing methane emissions, but also less land is needed for grazing animals and growing animal feed. Land can be returned to the natural state, allowing us to restore ecosystems that are now in severe weather conditions. My question to the Minister is: what place does less meat eat and the transition from an animal to a more plant-based food system in climate policy? In this context, the Animal Party has held another motion on the signing of the Plant Based Treaty. I'm gonna ask the Minister to take a good look at the Plant Based Treaty. Does he think it appropriate to sign it on behalf of the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to make tailor-made arrangements with the big polluting companies. My question to the Minister is: why does the cabinet choose this approach? Since the 1990s, these companies have known that they need to change with them. In their own 1991 documentary Climate of Concern, Shell warned about dangerous climate change. Businesses have continuously countered the change towards a new economy. Then why are we making tailor-made arrangements now? Then why are we going to give billions to these companies to make the transition? And why don't we just choose to get the polluter to pay, to pass the environmental costs on fairly in the price? Why didn't the cabinet choose a climate obligation? The government must meet the climate objectives. Then why should polluting companies not comply, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I also have a question about the generation test. My group is very pleased that the generational test has come into the coalition agreement. We do have questions in the boxes. What exactly is being tested for? Can the Minister explain this more clearly? Mr President, in summary. In an economy, it's about adapting to new circumstances in time. In political reality, this is very difficult, because change makes uncertain and old interests are great. Under this motto, according to the government agreement, the cabinet is still sticking to the old course of the disposable society, the continuing economic growth thinking. The cabinet could also have opted for a new economy. In this respect, in line with the scientific advice of the last 50 years, we must give real value to goods and services. With the polluter pays principle and volume measures, we are actually achieving economic development within the ecological limits that are needed. Without those system choices, we can't deploy the transition. Only this change of direction will make climate policy a real success in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you. Mr Boucke has the floor for his question. Oh, I see someone else standing, but I must give priority to Mr Boucke. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u107	I listened very carefully to Mrs Teunissen. I know that our parties share the same objective of combating harmful climate change. I have heard Mrs Teunissen put a lot of questions to the Minister, but my question to Mrs Teunissen is: what are your plans? What are your measures? Your election programme has not been calculated. People don't know what they're up to. We've had it processed. In fact, our goal is now included in the coalition agreement. We can tell you what to do up to the megaton and how to get there. But what measures are you proposing? How can the electorate expect that these measures will also add up to 60% or 100%, as you wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u108	Two things. First of all, the Animal Party does not allow its electoral programme to be passed on, as does the other plans we are making, because they do not fit into the current system of economic growth. I just explained that. It would therefore not mean anything, because it is another system within which we think and where we want to work. Then there's the solutions. I have just mentioned some of them. I've been talking about the shrinkage of livestock. It's now controlled at 30%. We have known since the 1990s that we need at least 70% reduction in livestock. Then it is not just about achieving the climate goals, but also about improving the soil, achieving the water targets, reducing raw materials and combating deforestation. So that is a hugely effective measure. The Animal Party has been advocating the reduction of aviation for years, i.e. the drastic reduction of the number of flights, and the promotion of public transport. Those are the fundamental system changes. These are just two of the examples I have just mentioned of measures that we have had to take for many years from an ecological and social perspective, but which we do not take because economic interests are considered to be greater than the interests of the climate and social interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u109	There is another follow-up question from Mr Boucke. That's his fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u110	This is indeed my final question, Mr President. We can agree on all the points mentioned by Mrs Teunissen. The difference is just... The sweat is still on the back of a lot of people here in the Chamber who worked on the coalition agreement. They have not only set the targets, but they have also calculated them firmly, so that people know where they stand. My final question to Mrs Teunissen is: is it true that you do have measures, but the people on the street do not know if they really add up to what is what at the end of the day? 100%, as you suggest?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u111	I think what Mr Boucke is doing here is a little lame. We always have very good discussions, but in this case I find it a little faint. You are asking the Animal Party to know exactly how our plans are going to work out, and we know that, in general, it is excellent, but at the same time we do not know how the plans in the coalition agreement are going to work out. In fact, we have just seen a whole discussion about nuclear energy. There are so many hooks and eyes on it that you really have no idea how this is going to contribute to a better climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u112	You were at the end of your speech, but there is another interruption by Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u113	Mrs Teunissen actually wants a completely different economy. She wants to change the economy. That is an original thought, because it means: away with the livestock, no more flying and so on. It's a very different way of looking at the economy. You can say: no economic prosperity, in the sense of consumer traffic. My question is actually about energy. We're gonna have to get our energy from somewhere. We see in the climate and energy exploration that I think we want to go with renewable energy to 26% or a third by 2030. Sun and wind are a very important part of that. That should grow to 26%. The question is: what does the Party for Animals think of that? I don't think you want biomass. No, I see. Then I think you're gonna be free of a little grut, especially sun and wind. What is your ambition in terms of sun and wind in 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u114	First of all, you cannot separate the question of how much sun and wind you want from energy saving. We now see that our energy needs in the future have not yet been met. I just asked the Minister the same question. What energy needs do we consider desirable? The Animal Party is looking at this system change differently. For example, Yara is responsible for some 6% of emissions in the Netherlands. In addition, they use huge amounts of gas, causing our gas reserves to run out. You may wonder if we still need such a factory in a sustainable society, in which you have sustainable agriculture and do not need fertilizer. So if you do, you're already going to see a huge reduction in energy demand. In addition, you will need sun and wind, but also storage and geothermal heat. You need hydropower at some points. You need local solutions. There are also parties who want to focus on technological solutions that have not yet been proven, such as CO storage, which we see happening now, as well as nuclear energy. We know it's gonna be a lot more expensive than wind and sun. That's not efficient at all. We're going to make exactly the same mistakes we saw with the coal plants. That is not what the Party chooses for the Animals. We do, however, opt for very strong energy savings. In addition, we want to bet on sun, wind and geothermal energy. We also need to ensure that investments are made in, for example, storage, which can be done very well and which we do not yet see happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u115	There is a follow-up question from Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u116	At first I heard a bit of a brake on sun and wind, because you are actually going to look more at the demand side, actually at the loss of energy needs. JA21 is, as we know, critical of solar and wind energy, very critical. We are looking at the impact that this has on the climate we see, on the landscape. We also look at the costs and problems that people are experiencing, also in terms of health, by placing these huge ugly wind turbines. So I was hoping that you, as a Party for the Animals, could embrace that a little, because it is soiling. I think that's an important aspect of placing all those turbines. I can see the Minister nodding: it is indeed soiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u117	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u118	If we increase that in this climate exploration, it will be much worse. That's bad for the birds, too, all flying against them. So my question is again: could you, with your very deep sighs, once again state why the Party for Animals represents even more wind turbines in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u119	I think that is a fair question, but a bit of a simplification of reality. When I look at the energy sources, every energy source has disadvantages, including wind turbines. They also have disadvantages. So you always have to ask yourself very carefully: how much energy do we actually need and what can we save? Then you have to make a thorough balance between the disadvantages and the benefits. Of course, you shouldn't fill the whole country with windmills. You always have to look very thorough. There must be good frameworks. It must not affect health. The Party for Animals is also very critical of this. We do not want to place windmills in nature reserves, but at the same time we must prevent the effects of climate change from becoming so bad that we will have no more nature and no more workable society. The Party for Animals is actually constantly working on that balance. For that, we have a hugely good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u120	I myself find that somehow I always sympathize with the story of the Party for Animals, also because it is very ideological. I like that, because I think we could use some ideology in the Chamber. I do not think it is such a big problem that you do not allow programmes to be passed on. You have a small fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u121	I don't think you mean the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u122	No, that's right, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Teunissen is in a small group, so she cannot pass it all on. That's a lot of work. I get that. I'd like to talk to you about the bigger story, because you're actually in front of an economy that's shrinking. You have a different definition of prosperity. You will also have to answer the question of what your future economy looks like. I think it is legitimate for you as a party to say that we are in favour of a different type of economy. I think most parties in the Chamber actually do. The differences are, I think, the extent to which you do. But you, I think, will also have to have a story about what the economy of the future looks like if we don't do a lot of what we do now. How do you strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands? There are people with jobs, in all kinds of sectors. They're just gonna need a paycheck. I just don't see it right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u123	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u124	... how you can decorate an economy with the proposals you make. Do you have a view on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u125	Yeah, we have a vision of that. First of all, we must return to the question of what we mean by such an economy within the capacity of the earth. Mr Bontenbal assumes that the Animal Party stands for an economy that is shrinking, but that is not true. For the way we see that economy, I can refer to the economist Kate Raworth. She's made a very nice doughnut model of the economy. In it, it is not about whether an economy is shrinking or growing, but rather about letting go of the blind staring on it and working towards an economy that works for society and is in the service of cooperation, whether it grows or shrinks. The Party for Animals takes that idea as a starting point. From there you come to a completely different vision of the future, namely that this growth is no longer central, but that the economy is at the service of the prosperity of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u126	There is a follow-up question from Mr Bontenbal. I would ask you to speak through the President. If you're talking about "you," you're talking to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr President, I know how it works by now. Mrs Teunissen says, I think, something very good. The economy is at the service of people's good lives. That's also the CDA's vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u128	The good life of humans and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u129	And animals, and the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u130	You continue your question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u131	I think you just said something important. I don't think the book of economist Raworth himself is very strong, but good. I do have a question about economic growth. You are often opposed to economic growth. I've heard you say that before. But you are actually saying that it is about selective growth, i.e. growth that contributes, for example, to the well-being and prosperity of people, but which is not harmful to the environment, human beings, animals and so on. You still think they're acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u132	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u133	Is economic growth the problem or is it possible within the limits of the planet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u134	Economic growth at the moment is absolutely the problem and not the solution. Let's be clear about that. Because we see that we have crossed all of the planetary boundaries, not all of them, but most of them. The point is: we must work towards an economy within the ecological limits. Otherwise, we are not going to solve the problem we are talking about today, the climate problem, and the problems we are talking about at other times, such as the nitrogen crisis and the natural crisis. So we will have to get rid of the growing doctrine, which is now out of control. Do I rule out the possibility of growth in the future? No, I'm not ruling that out at all, but now it's gone way too far, making profits and making big companies that only enrich themselves at the expense of everything else, like intangible value. We must fundamentally change that economy. I understand that Mr Bontenbal did not think that Kate Raworth's book was such a good book in that respect, as he says, because it contains a very different frame of mind than that from which we are now having this debate. We want to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u135	Thank you. You're at the end of your speech? One moment, you may answer another question, from Mr Grinwis. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u136	I agree with Mr Bontenbal's compliments for the Party for Animals, but skip the introduction. I am asking my question right away, and I am interested in the response of the Group of the Party of Animals. We now have a primary energy consumption of almost 3,000 petajoules. For end-users, this amounts to 2,300 petajoule. We're generating about 300 petajoules of renewable energy. There is also a lot of biomass. Imagine the Party for the Animals can implement its vision and we can halve the end-use. Then you always need, between now and a few years, more than 1,000 petajoules of additional renewable energy, without biomass. What does that energy picture, which really adds up, look like at the Party for Animals? I understand that Mr Teunissen, in reply to this, is not able to lay down a completely elaborate story, but the question would be: would the Party for Animals group want to come up with that in the coming period? Because then we really have something that we can discuss with each other, and we can deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u137	Mrs Teunissen, make an attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u138	I'm definitely trying, Mr. Chairman. I will not talk about our energy vision for an hour, but we have outlined this picture completely in our election programme. That's just what it says. That's not just the Party for Animals. That's consistent with what the organization had Urgenda pass on. Then we come to an energy-neutral society around 2030, 2035. Many of the parties here say 'we're not going to make it', but that's because none of the parties here are committed to such a significant energy saving as the Party for Animals. That's the most essential thing. We are going to reduce energy consumption by 50% by 2030. That's just a really big step. I would like to take this up again during subsequent debates. I am very happy to do so, so I will take it with me for the next debates to deal with it in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u139	Very good. Thank you. It is, of course, always a pleasant subject for discussion outside debates. Thank you for your input. Mrs Kröger has the floor. She speaks for GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The violence of nature that we are increasingly confronted with worldwide shows what the real costs are if we do not manage to limit the rise in temperature to 1.5 degrees. But also the threatening situation in Ukraine shows it: it is crucial to become independent of oil and gas. The previous cabinet struggled with the goals of the Climate Act. Now those targets are being increased, and we welcome that. But I do ask the new minister: what is fundamentally different now? We have a Minister for Climate, but many of the really complex implementation lies with other ministers. I refer to the sustainability of the built environment, mobility and industry. In an interview, the Minister states that he can stand up, so that his colleagues will actually deliver. What exactly was agreed on in the constituent deliberations? How does this work in practice? The Minister for Spatial Planning came up with a moratorium on energy-slurping data centers, except for the three locations where it really matters, namely the locations where those hyperscales are planned. Did the climate minister put his green mark on that letter from Minister De Jonge? If not, what does this say about this minister's perseverance? Mr. Chairman. The reason I insist on this is that we do not have time for purely fine objectives and vague plans. The first analysis of the PBL shows that the current plans are insufficient to actually achieve the 60%. What is the cabinet going to deliver on May 1st? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, sharp choices are needed. I join much of what the Party for Animals said. In industry, in aviation, in agriculture: not everything fits. I don't see enough of those choices. What does the vision of this climate-neutral society in 2040 look like? The cabinet seems to focus on money as a lubricant and less on standards. The PBL is also critical of this. There are billions going to the big polluters. But what kind of hard obligation is there against that? Does the Minister agree with me that green industrial policy also means that every company must draw up a concrete and manageable plan of how it becomes climate neutral? And doesn't that just mean a climate obligation? Mr. Chairman. The impact of our economy is, of course, not only in the Netherlands. How will the Minister ensure that our CO-print abroad is reduced through trade and investment? Is the Dutch signature under the Glasgow declaration as a house? The generation of renewable energy is, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, local ownership and crucial to its acceptance. So full support for energy cooperatives but also for local authorities who want to work with the heat supply. We need to transform this SDE, which is now an instrument that is a kind of megaton killer, into something that stimulates innovation and social added value. Is that what the Minister wants to do? Is there really going to be a legal reconnaissance with local authorities to tackle the first come, first serve principle on the net? The first priority, as far as the Minister and I are concerned, is energy saving. Otherwise, those other planetary boundaries, which we're going to be very hard on, will also be in danger. Does the Minister agree with me that the first step of the switch-off plan, namely a call to use as little gas as possible, is a no-regret measure? Does the Minister want to finance the municipalities so that they can really focus in the neighbourhoods, for example with energy coaches and insulation programmes, to ensure that as many households as possible are helped and we go off the gas as quickly as possible and use less gas? How does the Minister intend to maintain the energy saving obligation for industry? Why don't we increase that payback to seven years? Come with a firm goal and a plan in the field of energy saving, and not just in the area of CO reduction! In the short term, people who are now hit hard by a high energy bill must be compensated. The necessary questions have already been asked. As a cabinet, give space to municipalities to do this right. But we also need to protect consumers more effectively in the longer term against this type of large fluctuations in the market and the cowboys in the energy market. How are we going to regulate that market more in order to avoid excessive outliers? Finally, Mr President. The high gas prices know a lot of losers. That has already been said. But there are also a few winners. Shell is making record profits, and with the escalating crisis in Ukraine this will only get worse. In the United Kingdom and Spain a so-called windfall tax is being looked at. What are the possibilities of taxing a company like Shell for the improper profits that are being made now, so that we can bet this money on all those people who are currently suffering from too high an energy bill? Mr President, I shall conclude. There's a huge challenge ahead of us. I am very glad that we no longer have to fight the battle, whether we are going to pursue climate policy or whether we need climate action, but that we are finally going to talk about how. That is profit and an important step towards a climate-neutral society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Van Haga has the floor. He speaks on behalf of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u142	Mr. Chairman. Climate has become a belief and the climate plans of the cabinet are the dream of the left-wing climate sect. The almighty state as a vassal of the European Union, led by Marxist climate bureaucrats, can now hunt unbridled farmers off their land. And it's not much better for other entrepreneurs. And for what? For a dubious reduction in global CO emissions, while countries like China and India are laughing their asses off. BVNL is therefore very critical of the plans of the cabinet. The objective of this cabinet is to achieve 55% CO reduction by 2030. The PBL has already indicated that these plans limit the maximum executable. Doesn't the Minister for Climate think his plans are somewhat unachievable and very expensive? Through subsidies such as the SDE++, many billions are wasted on things that are intrinsically bad for the environment, such as windmills, solar fields and energy-slurping captures and put into the ground of CO, CCS. Now there will be a 25 billion nitrogen fund and a huge climate fund of EUR 35 billion, with money looking for projects. Lobbyists can cut the cake and our children get a climate mortgage. Can the Minister indicate how he is going to check whether the projects we are going to spend this tax money on are actually good for our environment? Can the Minister calculate for each project how much CO emissions this cradle-to-grave occurs and how much does he think this saves in global warming degrees? Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, we miss a thousand billion euros by stopping winning natural gas in Groningen, while natural gas is a clean form of energy, CH, the shortest hydrocarbon chain, with a very clean combustion. Can the Minister at least promise that the natural gas infrastructure will be preserved and no irreversible steps taken? Good things are being done, too. For example, 5 billion will be set aside for the construction of two nuclear power plants, but will there also be money for research into thorium plants? When can we expect realistic planning? Finally. These bizarre plans are already hitting citizens and entrepreneurs deep in the wallet. It's easy to make crazy plans, but we must always keep an eye on the interests of people who have to pay for these absurd plans. The cost of the religious climate obsession will not lie with the people in this room. It ends up with the business community and the hardworking Dutchman. So let's make sure we don't waste these billions. That is in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u143	Thank you. That raises another question from Mr Azarkan. No? Excuse me. I call Mrs Leijten. It speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u144	Mr. Chairman. It cannot be explained that the energy bill in the Netherlands is going through the roof, as mentioned earlier, which increases by an average of €1,300 per year, but for some households by more than €2,000 per year; a doubling of the cost of the energy bill and at the same time we have the highest tax on Europe's energy bill. It's not just geopolitical what's going on here. It is a conscious political choice to allow the taxation of gas for people at home to be higher than for companies that need gas. It's a political choice to leave people in the cold. Now we all feel it, but the SP has been putting this on the agenda since the new word "energy poverty" exists. What will this minister do in the short term and in the long term? Is he willing to just turn our energy supply back on all of us, so no mega profits are made by private companies? Vattenfall's winnings are going through the roof. GasTerra has a large turnover. How are we going to bet those profits for the people who pay that? The Minister wants to get rid of the linking of geothermal heat to the gas price, but will we now arrange for the profits generated by geothermal energy, because the geothermal heat is linked to the gas price, to go back to the energy bill that people pay? That would really help people. I would like to resolve that today with the Minister. And then there's the 35 billion for climate sustainability, the fund there is. Of this, 22 billion goes directly to industry, which has not paid with it in recent years, not to ordinary taxes and not to the pollution they caused. If a company like Tata Steel would have paid its usual taxes, and then we're not even talking about the CO-tax, then it could have run on hydrogen. Then that investment was long overdue. And now we have to talk about a climate obligation for those companies, when they're going to get billions? I want to agree with this minister that if they get billions, we'll make sure they pay back if they start making profits again. And we make sure that the knowledge they're going to develop is for us. So we're not gonna pay money for a earning model of companies that have never contributed to regular taxes and never paid for the pollution they caused. I really want to record that. So they don't get the money they get. It's a pre-investment. We'll get it back if they make a profit. That seems to me at least right, both for those companies, because they are going to be really greening, but also for our treasury. Because that 35 billion doesn't go to making these houses more sustainable. I wish that one would go there. And then there's another contradiction. 800 million went to biomass plants last year. We know it doesn't help, yes, on paper for the climate goals. So-called models. The same models we all have to fit in to get a white foot for so-called modeling at elections. Biomass is not sustainable. We want to get rid of it; most people want to get rid of it. And yet, last year, 800 million went there. How much is that this year? And can you explain that? No, as well as not explaining it, there will be data centers. We have often talked about making our energy needs more sustainable. It's necessary. It is often said that people have to do so. But we really need to be honest here. Only 20% is related to the energy needs of households, while the burden lies with those households. Also when it comes to effects that people experience when confronted with windmills, for example. There's a lot of resistance to that. There are projects that are well designed with the environment, where people say: that's good, we see the benefit of it, we also benefit from it and we want it. Those are fine solutions. But we also know there's a lot of resistance. And we're organizing that resistance. The cabinet has made the right decision to get good distance standards for health, noise and that kind of thing. I would like to ask this Minister to simply have a standstill with the further development until then. That means that he can quickly set up these distance standards, and that also means that we will not go against legal procedures again afterwards to shut down projects. 'Cause how much does all that cost? Finally, Mr President. This Minister is talking about feasible and affordable. We can't talk about that anymore. The SP thinks that's weird. It must be feasible and affordable, but especially for the people of the Netherlands. Everyone wants climate policy. Not a small group; a small group denies it. But the vast majority of people in the Netherlands see that we have to do something. But they do say that it must not lead to greater poverty for people already in poverty. Look at the energy bill: that's not gonna be made. And they also say that measures should be proportionate. Then you have to start with "the polluter pays." Then you shouldn't burden people with concerns about their health. Those concerns are there and those concerns are justified. We heard about the RIVM. That's what we read in the coalition agreement. Then take those concerns away before you let policy push through. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u145	Thank you for your input. Mr Azarkan has the floor. He speaks on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about climate today, and in the meantime, of course, we must ensure that people do not stand in the cold every day. That's how they feel. When I look at the Minister's plans, and at the interview he gave, I see he's ambitious. It's splashing. He says: I am the first among the equals. As far as he is concerned, other ministers are going to submit concrete plans. They didn't all sign that they're doing exactly what he wants, but he does expect them to come up with plans. He also says: I expect municipalities and provinces to come up with plans as well. He says if they don't, we're gonna do it for them. I wonder: how about administratively? Hasn't this minister been singing a little loose? Can he just impose that? Mr. Chairman. This minister is dependent on many other ministers, many other governments. He is also dependent on other organisations, on energy companies, on housing corporations. That means working hard in the next three years. What does the minister mean when he says, "I'm gonna stand up?" What does that mean? And what's that gonna do? I say again: the ambitions are strong. The minister wants to be a frontrunner. He wants to win a prize. He wants to be seen as the one who takes the Netherlands to the next phase. And all over the next three years. Mr. Chairman. There were already billions of euros planned, some 40 billion in climate spending. We got the 6.8 billion in the package in September. And now we also have the 35 billion that is being set up. That's what this minister's about. That money must have been spent by 2030. What a fucking money! You're gonna have to look at that, look at all those billions, and in the meantime, turn your heat to 15 degrees because you can't afford the energy bill. Mr. Chairman. If we then dive into this Minister's plans, we will see that measures are being developed to reduce emissions by 60% by 2030. But the Climate Act sets the rate of 55%. Is this 5% difference a sort of buffer? Is 60% the real target? Or is it an ambition? Can we take care of the minister for that? And why does the cabinet still have to think about intermediate targets for the years 2035, 70%, and 2040, 80%? Why are these changes to the Climate Act not included in a single legislative proposal? Isn't this how the minister creates some kind of delay? Mr. Chairman. The range between the high and low estimates of the coalition agreement is large. The optimistic estimate is 62%, and the pessimistic estimate is 49%. And actually, the Planning Office for the Environment has indicated that a 55% target is within the maximum achievable. Isn't the rest of you an air bike? What does the procedure look like when new calculations of the PBL show that the targets are not feasible? Does this mean that climate and energy exploration will be offered to Cabinet and Chamber much earlier than in October? Because it means that the cabinet will have to come up with alternatives. I would like to hear from the Minister what the procedure for corrective additional measures is going to look like. Mr. Chairman. Ambition is a beautiful thing, but that doesn't apply to blind ambition. Blind ambition, with blinders on marching without taking reality into account, is a dead end. I see a lot of loose ends in the plans and in the letter, especially with regard to the climate and energy fund. Is it true that EUR 6 billion is being spent in this cabinet period? This means that this minister too will depend on the years after on how the other 29 billion will be spent. Mr. Chairman. The largest amount from the Climate Fund, 15 billion, is intended for early scaling up. This is intended for new energy sources that fit with a large scale and can reduce cost-effective greenhouse gases. How is that 15 billion actually built up? Is this about hydrogen, about fuel cells, or maybe about storage CCS? Or is it about new motors? Mr. Chairman. There's $3 billion going to meetings with big extortionists. In the media this is also referred to as "giving money to polluting companies." I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Is this true, too? Mr. Chairman. The group of DENK will continue to assess climate policy on the basis of two criteria. The climate agreement must be fair and fair. This means that it must also be affordable and feasible. The costs must also be borne by the polluters, as far as we are concerned, with retroactive effect. The cabinet should not stare blindly at combating climate change alone. The Netherlands should not increase its role by 0.35% of world emissions. If other countries do not participate sufficiently, there must also be a plan B, which could be aimed at more adaptation. On these two points, we will settle this cabinet in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u147	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Boucke. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is an ambitious coalition agreement. We're going to have 60% CO reduction and the polluter is going to pay. We've agreed on actions and we have a huge Climate Fund. We're using a generational test, he's just been mentioned as ""to always protect the interests of the next generations." I am also curious to hear the Minister's answers to Mrs Teunissen's questions. We are also going to be the frontrunner in Europe, as we agreed. This minister has my confidence, but it's not blind faith, I tell him. He has to deliver. I will follow closely the actions and pace of the cabinet, I will make proposals where necessary, but I will also be critical when things are not fast enough. We need to speed things up. Mr. Chairman. I'm starting today with actuality. Many people are deeply concerned about developments at the borders of Russia and Ukraine and about their rising energy bill. That's right. I understand the concern and I share it, because vulnerable households are hit hardest and are in danger of getting into trouble. That is why I call on the cabinet today to include the impact of the rising energy bill on vulnerable groups in the spring decision-making process. There are many reasons for these rising energy prices. Some of them are obvious. Others are a little more complicated, but not less important. How will the Minister ensure that the Dutch energy market becomes less dependent on factors that lead to these strong energy price increases? What instruments does the Minister have for this? What role does the Minister see for Europe? Let this crisis ensure that Europe also acts geopolitically as the giant it should have been long ago. My party's been hammering on this for a long time. I am glad that others in this Chamber are now aware of this. Europe must play a much greater role. Mr. Chairman. To achieve 60% reduction by 2030, we have no time to waste. Yeah, we've got the climate and energy exploration, but it's not enough to keep the finger on the pulse. If it is decided to withdraw measures, I have already mentioned them, then there must always be a measure, because the complete package must always add up to 60%. That is a four-party agreement, but I am sure that others in this Chamber attach great importance to it. Can the Minister share with the Chamber a quarterly update of the expected measures that add up to 60%? My proposal would be to do this clearly and clearly. Take the table from the coalition agreement and update it every quarter. That is my proposal to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The climate transition calls for a system change, but also for concrete results. To put it bluntly, the Minister must be on a megatonne chase. He must do so together with the Minister of EZK. It is precisely in industry that we see additional opportunities to reduce. The tailor-made agreements were not included in the reduction calculations of the coalition agreement. The Minister for Economic Affairs will discuss with industry how many megatons can be picked up. I want to turn that around: how many megatons have to be picked up in industry? That's the question. What are we doing to industry? It can be helped by the climate fund, but we need to be clear about what we expect from it, because the goal is leading. Let me be very clear about this today: to reach 60%, there is no room for polluting companies. It's: get clean or close. I understand that this can cause unrest, because for which companies is there no room in this clean economy? I believe that the plan should provide a clear answer to this. For D66 there are the following criteria for that answer. We are not closing down companies where the reduction is real and where there is no leakage, there will be a good social plan for the workers and there will be solutions for the region. Mr President, I will conclude. To achieve our climate goals, we need everything and everyone. That is why I am optimistic that I am hearing good ideas today from coalition members, but also from members of the opposition. We will have to work together, just like this minister will have to work with his colleagues in the government. I wish him every success and strength in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u149	Thank you for your input. It leads to a question from Mrs Van der Plas. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u150	"Honest and just; industry must also deliver." I have twice tabled a motion asking the cabinet to have the industry record exactly what their emissions are, because a lot of industries do not need to register them at all. It's not known about that either. D66 voted against it twice. My question is: why did D66 vote against that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u151	I must confess to Mrs van der Plas that I cannot immediately remember those exact motions and texts. I am asking the cabinet today to start reducing emissions quickly, especially in industry. That is very important for us, for my group. That's what we agreed on in the coalition. We've also tried to quantify that. I expect the cabinet, this minister and his colleague from EZK to send us an update on a very regular basis of how the plans add up to 60%. Of these, a substantial part belongs to the industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u152	The strange and unfair thing is this. Everything is known in agriculture. All emissions are known exactly. Everything must be recorded up to eight decimals, so to speak. A lot of industry doesn't. We've seen the example of Tata Steel. It turned out that they emit far more harmful substances than they had given up on themselves. I'm wondering what's going on here. We can report what we want, but if we're gonna report something we don't know, it's not gonna do you any good. If you want someone to reduce, you also need to know exactly what they're emissioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u153	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u154	That is not known at all. I'm considering reposing the motion. In short, my question is whether, in the meantime, Mr Boucke would like to take a close look at this and perhaps express his support for it. Because it's only when we know exactly what everyone's doing that we can make big strides.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u155	I agree with the latter. Measuring is knowing. We need to know how much is being emitted to know how much is being reduced. How exactly we are going to do that, I would like to leave it to the cabinet, but I would very much like to look at the motion. However, I cannot support this at the moment, because I have to read it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u156	This offers opportunities for the blooming of something clean. Mr Van Haga has the floor for his question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u157	I think Mr Boucke is a chemical engineer. So he's very good at math. Fortunately, in these debates, the engineering density in this room is always quite high with Mr Stoffer and Mr Bontenbal behind me. It would be nice if Mr Boucke were to be the technical anchor for this cabinet, because I think we need to determine in advance which methods and techniques contribute net and which do not. Then sunshine on the roof, geothermals or nuclear power stations do contribute. But in recent years, we have seen incredibly many things that contribute nothing or have a net negative return, such as biomass plants, solar fields, windmills and CCS. Does Mr Boucke agree with BVNL that we should keep this minister extremely sharp and perhaps give him a tutoring once in a while, so that this cabinet only does the technically correct things that also contribute net, cradle-to-grave?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u158	By the way, I note that this was a very long introduction, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u159	I keep an eye on the seconds, so it fits inside the mold.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u160	It is important for D66 that we take measures that actually reduce emissions. I think that Mr Van Haga and I can really have a discussion on what measures they are. Mr Van Haga quotes CCS more often. In my view, the Minister gave a very adequate response to this in a previous debate. In short, CCS certainly produces CO emission reductions. I can end them all, but I agree with Mr Van Haga that we should go for the measures that actually reduce emissions. But we certainly still have a discussion on what measures they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u161	Mr Van Haga's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u162	Whether CCS net contributes or not, we disagree. BVNL doesn't think so. But in any case, if you implement CCS instead of switching directly to hydrogen, as with Tata Steel, then you might be wondering if CCS is the right route. But that's not my question. My question is short and good: this Minister has indicated that it does not have to be feasible or affordable for him anymore. Of course, that's a very dangerous thing. If the Minister for Climate says 'I don't care how much it costs and how it happens', can I count on Mr Boucke of D66 to put a real brake on this and that it should remain feasible and affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u163	Two comments. One. There is no question of disagreeing on CCS, because you can pass it on. Mr Van Haga just addressed me on my engineering title. Mr Van Haga is also an engineer. We both wear that title with pride, I know. But then you must also admit that if you calculate it, you will see that it is a solution. It's a transition solution. D66 doesn't want us to keep using CCS for days, but we do need it as a transition solution, until the industry is truly radically greening. On the second point, I can be brief: I would ask the Minister that question. It's his words. I find it as chic as the Minister himself responds to the words he used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u164	That is the request from the Minister. Mr Erkens' question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u165	Mr Boucke spoke just now about which industry there is room in the Netherlands and for which not. I have a question about that. Industry must be made more sustainable; we agree on this. That should not be without obligation; we also agree on that. But what purpose does Mr Boucke intend to pursue when he asks which industry is in place here and which is not? If that industry leaves across the border, so it's not here anymore, but we're still buying the products, that pollution will, of course, cross the border. How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u166	Thank you to Mr Erkens for this question. We have agreed together on a major reduction in emissions in industry. We said it should be customized. This must be made on the basis of reciprocity, so there really must be an achievement. As far as my party is concerned, we have also agreed in the coalition that companies are going to be radically greening. If they don't, there's no room for those companies in a green economy. That is what matters to me, that we focus on both matters. The point is that we are not just putting money into radical greening but also really seeing if the companies can do it. Is there room for those companies in a green economy? What do we do when we conclude that there is no place? Then we don't need a leak. We need a social plan for the people who work there. We must also have a good plan for the region where these companies are located.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u167	A follow-up question from Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u168	To get it all sharp: does D66 also believe that every industry and every company gets that chance to green up here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u169	Yes, of course. That is also the question to the cabinet, not only to this minister but also to the minister of EZK. I can't wait to see what they're coming up with. But we are also going to judge ourselves on the plan that the cabinet comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u170	Thank you. I call Mr Eerdmans. And after that, you are. Mr Eerdmans, your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u171	With regard to the Minister's statements that climate policy no longer needs to be feasible or affordable, we will certainly call him to account. He's gonna take it in this room, too. But I would also like to know from the D66 spokesperson what he thinks of that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u172	I think it's a very good statement. I think it has been too long about what is feasible. We have now shown each other what is feasible, namely 60% reduction by 2030. We've also shown that it's payable. We're making money out of it. We invest in our industry and in our homes so that they become more energy efficient and people have a lower energy bill. We are finally going to invest in mobility. We're gonna pay to enter use. We have allocated money to take that step. It is feasible and affordable. The reason why I am pleased that the Minister has made this point is that we need to get out of the discussion on that question. As Mrs Kröger said, it is very good that we have had the discussion about whether we should do something. No, the question is how we are going to do it. And that is what we have put on the table in the coalition agreement, and that is what this cabinet is now working on. It is feasible and affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u173	Mr Eerdmans' final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u174	Yes, I do reserve it for Mr Boucke. I like ambition. I like that. Your ambition isn't mine, but it's fine. The problem is that, like the Minister, you say it can be priceless and unfeasible. That point of unfeasible is the fata morgana of D66, fine. But as far as affordable is concerned, this is not a D66 congress or anything, it is all people in the Netherlands. There was also justified criticism on the left. We've heard about it before, Mr. Wilders. It is a very broad group in society that does not make this kind of comment, namely that the bill is placed with the common man and the ordinary woman who sees that bill rise because of your unfeasible but also priceless climate plans. That has to be paid and that cannot be done. I think you are very arrogant about it as a government party to talk about the Dutch's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u175	Any reply from Mr Boucke? I don't hear a question, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u176	I didn't hear a question either, but I'm very happy to give a response and that's as follows. D66 entered into these elections with a programme that is very ambitious in terms of climate. We have had that passed on, and that passing-through shows that our plans are not only feasible but are also affordable, that the plans we are carrying out are as they are. Then we negotiated as four parties and we managed to convert a large part of those plans into a coalition agreement. I'm very happy about that. I am also very pleased that we have succeeded with these four parties because that has also created support, at least in this Chamber. There are also other parties in this Chamber that support this ambitious climate policy. I would like to say to Mr Eerdmans: that is not arrogance, that is from a very humble position looking at what society demands of us, that is to say, to make climate policy ambitious, so that the next generations can have what we have now. That's what we did. That is our intention and we are now trying to turn it into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u177	Mr Azarkan has another question, the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u178	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I read in that interview that Mr Jetten was convinced about nuclear energy. Mr Boucke's party programme said that we find that complicated. It also made a promise: there is no subsidy to nuclear energy. Now 5 billion has been earmarked in the plan. How can Mr Boucke defend that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u179	Thank you for this question. There is a lot of reference to that interview and I feel that I should defend the Minister now. We have indeed made agreements in this coalition agreement. We have said that we are spending money to green the industry, that we are also spending money on energy infrastructure and that we are ensuring that the preparation of two nuclear power plants can take place. For this we have allocated 5 billion, of which 500 million in this cabinet period, I think. Not even half a nuclear power plant has been built. As far as we are concerned, the construction of nuclear power stations is up to business. If the business community sees a good business case: come on! We agreed in the coalition agreement that we will facilitate preparations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u180	Mrs Kröger has the floor for an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u181	It is very tempting to continue with nuclear energy, but I am saving it for the Minister. Mr Boucke referred to the D66 electoral programme. It speaks of 60%. That was calculated by the PBL. This is a very heavy account for the major polluters; 6 billion, I believe, from the CPB overdrafts. There is now a plan in which the major polluters are actually spared and no 60% is identified. My question to Mr Boucke is then: what mandate does D66 give this minister to ensure that on 1 May there really is a plan for achieving that 60%? Does this not also mean that polluters will have to pay, as stated in the D66 electoral programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u182	Yeah, sure. The polluters have to pay. We have also agreed on a minimum price for CO, a marginal CO levy. You can also see that the European CO prize is going to do its job. Some CCS projects do not actually need a grant anymore. I am very happy about that myself, because the less subsidy the polluting companies receive, the better. So there is indeed a solid package that pays the polluter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u183	Mrs. Kröger. She uses her last question to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u184	That is not apparent from the CPB's credit transfers, in any way. The D66 election programme mentions more than 6 billion for polluters. This cabinet comes at 0.1 in the minus, I believe. So there's a huge hole there. So there is probably a part of the solution to be able to tap that 60%. My specific question to Mr Boucke is as follows. There's no plan for that 60% right now. What is D66 going to ask this minister to do before 1 May to get that 60%? What is the real commitment to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u185	There's a 60% plan. That's the coalition agreement. You can read that in the annex. I have already mentioned in my speech that we have not yet entered the customised arrangements. I expect the cabinet to make it concrete. Shows how many megatons will have to be reduced by industry in the coming years. Then there's another point. This is my final point to Mrs Kröger. When we made the credit transfers, the CO price was a lot lower than it is now. Luckily, it's much higher now. This will raise more money from the polluting companies. As far as I am concerned, this cabinet is simply going to click on that high level as soon as possible, so that we are guaranteed to collect the money from those polluting companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u186	Thank you for your contribution. You had come to the end of your speech. I call Mr Bontenbal. He speaks for the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u187	Mr. Chairman. In the neighbourhood where I live, Rotterdam IJsselmonde, more than half of the households of low income have to make ends meet. Rotterdam is the municipality with the highest percentage of poor in the Netherlands, about 11%. Then how do I tell my neighbors that climate policy is important? How do I explain the ambitious climate agreements of the coalition agreement to my fellow city members, while some of them are working on reaching the end of the month? The British writer David Goodhart makes a distinction between two types of people: the somewheres and the anywheres. Anywhere has a good education, a good salary and an open mind to the world. They are progressive, open to change and are positive about globalisation and immigration. Somewheres are rooted in the local community, derive their identity and attach more strongly to tradition, family and religion. Sometimes changes go too fast for them. They often feel uncertain in the world of globalisation and immigration. Mr. Chairman. The distinction between the somewheres and the anywheres is a lot to change, but still it touches on an important point. Because an important question for this cabinet will be: how do we prevent this cabinet's climate policy not only from addressing anyone, but also from being supported by the certains? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to one of the criteria that the CDA Group will review the climate policy of this cabinet in the coming years. As others have said, Minister Jetten said in the NRC that he no longer wants to hear the words "feasible and affordable." I think he meant otherwise than he said in that. But if that climate policy is no longer affordable for the ordinary man or woman, for my neighbor or my neighbor, then it is not a social and therefore not a sustainable climate policy. In concrete terms, this means that I expect the cabinet to come up with a plan to tackle the high energy bill, for this year as well as for the years to come. Mr. Chairman. It will be no surprise that the CDA Group is satisfied with the climate paragraph of the coalition agreement. In the summer, as a group, we presented our climate vision and many recommendations have been incorporated into the coalition agreement. The agreement is ambitious, but it is also a realistic approach. We are doing what is necessary for the Paris Climate Agreement. We're also making enough money. We are building on the efforts of recent years. We invest in renewable energy sources and energy saving, but we also achieve the taboo of nuclear energy and CO storage. With green industrial policy, we place the emphasis on reducing emissions where it belongs and where it best suits industry. In the built environment there is a more realistic approach. Not all homes need to get off the gas right away. With heat networks and the combination of insulation, hybrid heat pumps and sustainable gases, we can take effective, large steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u188	I think there's been an interruption on the previous point. Mrs Leijten with her fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u189	Mr. Bontenbal began so hopefully. He said that he doesn't really know how to explain that people won't make it through this hugely increased energy bill at the end of the month, which has a huge amount of taxes on it, and at the same time he has to sell the climate policy, which includes billions of subsidies for large companies. But is the only answer he's going to give to his neighbors: am I asking the government for a plan? Or does the CDA itself have any ideas as to what needs to be done now to reduce the energy bill and what needs to be done in the long term to keep the energy bill affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u190	Mr Leijten says a number of things at the same time. It has also started in other contributions on the 35 billion for industry. As Mr Erkens said, that amount does not, of course, go to industry at once. For example, part of it will go to subsidising heat grids or is intended to make the built environment more sustainable for all those households. In addition, I think there is another vision of sustainability behind it and a difference of vision on how to keep the economy running. First of all, I think it is very social to place the emission reduction where it best suits, even in terms of cost-effectiveness, if you have such a great ambition as us. That is in industry and the energy sector. In the energy sector, we already do a lot. There's more we can do in industry. The follow-up question is: what do you do with the costs? This was also part of your question, Mrs Leijten, because you have said a number of times that we are giving 35 billion or 22 billion to the polluting business. You are also suggesting a little bit that we are giving this as a sort of tip to the big polluters. I don't think that's true. I think you should also have a story about how to maintain the earning capacity of the Netherlands. So I do not think it is at all social at the end of the day to start a transition in which a part of the business community is hit so hard that it leaves for the border. We can already see what the high energy price is doing for a number of companies. Let me take one sector as an example: the aluminum melters. A third of Europe's production is currently standing still. So if we still use aluminium now, it will simply go to China, with only more negative effects on the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u191	Perhaps it would be a good idea to concentrate on Mrs Leijten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u192	It was about the energy bill. I put a few figures together in Excel this morning. Look at the current energy bill. The CBS has also reported on this. That's where you touch. Look at the combination of energy taxation, storage of renewable energy and its return. Then you get a net amount of €12. At present, 1% of the current energy bill of an average household is that type of tax. The rest is VAT. VAT is therefore a real cost. The cabinet has already done something about the energy bill. The point is, of course, that most of that high energy price is determined by the fact that the commodity price is what gas and electricity costs are going through so hard. It is the international gas markets that cause such a high price. The follow-up question is: what can you do as a cabinet about it? Sometimes a slightly longer answer to a question is needed. In this Chamber all kinds of things are very easily called, but sometimes things are just a little more complex than they are imagined. I'm trying to explain a little bit about the energy bill. As a cabinet of course you only have a limited number of buttons on which you can turn. At the moment when you can no longer turn very hard on the button of the energy load, the ODE or whatever, you will also have to turn buttons that lie outside the domain of EZK, for example. This is the case, for example, with the restoration of purchasing power plates. This has already been the subject of a major debate. My group chairman, Mr Heerma, has tabled a motion in the debate on the declaration of government, together with the other coalition parties, to come up with a plan to look closely at purchasing power. I've got that motion right here. It's just being carried out. I think it is very sensible that the energy bill should be included in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u193	I think it's enough to finish with this. Mr Jansen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u194	I hope for an answer at least as comprehensive as that. I have just heard Mr Bontenbal say that the removal of natural gas from homes is no longer an end in itself. That's what he said once in The Financial Daily. I noticed that then. But that's what the climate agreement says. The Climate Agreement states: 1.5 million existing houses in 2030 and 7 million houses plus 1 million other buildings in 2050 in the entire built environment. Does this mean that he, the CDA and the government have let go of this? Because that's not in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u195	That too needs to be said more precisely. The Climate Agreement states that 1.5 million homes must be natural gas free or natural gas free-ready. That's what it says. We still want the energy supply to be gas-free by 2050. In the intermediate targets, we have opted for a more realistic approach, I think. In addition, we say that with the combination of considerable isolation, the application of hybrid heat pumps and, in the long term, sustainable gases, we can achieve such a reduction in the demand for natural gas that it is indeed sufficient to make the built environment securely sustainable. I think that's the route that a lot of municipalities are going on right now. I should like to make a very specific point: the 1.5 million homes in the Climate Agreement are not sacred to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u196	There is another follow-up question from Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u197	Thanks for the honest answer. Indeed, the Climate Agreement states that 50,000 homes per year starting from 2019 and 200,000 per year starting from 2030. That is why the Natural Gas Free Weeks Programme has also been launched. That's actually totally failed. 600 homes have been completed in three years. Those 50,000 a year are far from being met. Does Mr Bontenbal at least agree with me that this is so technically unfeasible that it is simply unwise to go through with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u198	We have opted for a more realistic approach in the coalition agreement. I would also like to say that what was said in the first place is not feasible. That's what I've been saying for five years. The idea of this hybrid route, which is very strongly reflected in the coalition agreement, is now also shared by a large part of the energy sector. I think that's a more realistic approach to eventually achieving the same megatons of CO reduction. It is, I think, a more feasible route for most households, because the interventions in the home are much less harsh, while you end up achieving the same result.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u199	Is this answer enough? No, Mr Jansen has a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u200	Yes, I would like to ask you about this, because this is quite an interesting answer. Energy managers and grid operators are now also warning about the network's overcapacity. In many places there can no longer be built, because there is simply not enough capacity on the power grid. At least 100 billion must be invested to make it portable. Doesn't this simply mean that all these ambitions should be abandoned in the coalition agreement, an even greater ambition than those laid down in the Climate Act? Shouldn't the whole deal be broken open?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u201	No, I don't think so. Last week we had a very wide-ranging debate on the electricity grid, grid capacity and so on. I think a very large part of those ambitions can go on. Your previous question was specifically about the built environment. I think that the more realistic approach that we advocate does not mean that your homes are massively electrified at once, which in turn means that we do not have to weigh up the electricity grids in the residential areas at once. In that sense too, therefore, it seems to me to be a very sensible approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u202	Clear. You would also like to address your last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u203	Yeah, my last question then. "More realistic" would actually be lower targets, but the goals are only getting higher. We find out halfway through that it all doesn't work out with those gasless houses, but the targets are getting higher and higher. Isn't it becoming less and less realistic? Shouldn't we just let it all go?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u204	No, I think that this realistic approach is what we are aiming for. Just a silly example. If you take one house off the gas and put it on a heat grid, it costs €15,000. You could put up a hybrid heat pump in that house for $3,000, with a 60% reduction in natural gas, I'm guessing. In other words: 5 x 60% = 300%. With this €15,000 you can take one house off the natural gas and put it on a heat grid, or you could provide five homes with a hybrid heat pump, with a 300% reduction in natural gas. It's a slightly simplified sum, but it does indicate that if you choose the hybrid route for 2030, you'll opt for a more realistic route. It is also more cost-effective and affects less in the homes. This is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u205	I think that's enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u206	... I think it's a sensible route, which we choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u207	...for this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u208	I am always happy to listen to Mr Bontenbal's contribution, because whether you agree or not, he knows. In fact, I dare say that everyone here in the Chamber has the most sense. Hence the next question. I regularly think about the 35 billion, which is now in the coalition agreement. Mr Bontenbal has been sitting at the table, I have just heard. Then what are we talking about? What about plans, measures and so on? Could he tell me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u209	Yeah, I can tell you part of that. I would also like to tell you a little bit about the negotiations on the coalition agreement. My colleagues should raise their finger if I'm being too frank. We are very much in favour of Laura of Spirit's Destination Paris report. It has looked intensively at all measures with its task force. They have also looked at, for example, what is needed for the scaling up of new energy carriers. The time for negotiation was, of course, short. In two weeks we have actually put together the main lines of the coalition section on climate. In addition, we simply asked: what is the best available knowledge we have at the moment? That was at that time the report Destination Paris. So you will see that this table is largely based on it, with an assessment of, for example, what is needed to solve the scarcity of electricity grid capacity. So you'll find a billion dollars for that. Some of these posts are in this way, but that is at least on that basis. About the 35 billion. We also wanted to show that we are really serious about investing in public infrastructure in particular, in order to eventually make the transition possible for industry, for example, over the coming decades. I also read that economists say: you should not see this occasionally, but it goes on for a long time, and so on. In my opinion, the story is that in nine or ten years we are going to build a public infrastructure with each other: hydrogen, CO, electricity and heat, on which the new green industry can also be built. That seems to me to be a very sensible choice at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u210	This leads to a follow-up question from Mr Stoffer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u211	Of course, I would have preferred it to be said: a billion for this and a billion for that and so on. But perhaps the Minister will tell us later, if we ask that question, of course. I thought we'd have that economic debate later tonight with Minister Kaag. Let's get back to the 35 billion. Could it have been 30 or 40 billion? Has it been calculated fairly hard or could it have been a lot more or a lot less?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u212	A compact response from Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u213	The honest answer is that we have not calculated it accurately in the hundreds of millions. We have focused on the Destination Paris report. It contains these kinds of amounts, plus some additional information on what is still needed. For example, we have also made an assessment of how much we think it is necessary to give a very serious signal to the market to start nuclear energy. We said 5 billion of that. Of course, that could have been 10 billion. So that's how it came about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u214	It's so loaded on a tree, isn't it? Mr Bontenbal was still working on his speech, if I have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u215	Sure. I've got two minutes and 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u216	Sure. We'll keep an eye on that. You have the floor. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u217	I have a few more specific questions. The first one is about customization. My questions are as follows. Has the cabinet been working on these tailor-made arrangements with the large emissions? How's the Minister gonna do that? Is he going to be helped by experts? Can the Minister outline what he thinks the customizations are gonna look like? Is the Minister also prepared to examine what role the Carbon Contracts for Difference instrument can and should play in climate policy in the Netherlands? I secretly hope for a commitment that you intend to apply that instrument. The second point concerns green energy policy. Our economy, of course, is much more than the industry. How do you ensure that SMEs and greenhouse horticulture are part of the green industrial policy story? They too are currently hard hit by high energy prices. What is their future perspective in tomorrow's green economy? Then it's about innovation. Investing in research and innovation will have to be a crucial part of climate policy. In the letter, this is getting pretty messy. The Minister writes: "With the strengthened 2030 target and the new longer-term reduction targets, additional commitment to (energy) innovation is needed to stimulate (new) techniques, reduce costs and find socially attractive alternatives. Energy innovation is therefore an important prerequisite for the energy transition." But what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms? Is there more money for research and innovation and how is innovation policy linked to the societal challenge of climate transition? Is the Cabinet prepared to describe in a separate vision how the agreement in the government agreement that additional investment is being made in research and innovation of climate-neutral technologies is being worked out? Then there is the issue of the distribution of climate change. In the letter, the distribution of the declaration of at least 55% is indicatively translated into the different sectors. How do we ensure that a cost-optimal path is followed in the distribution of the task? And how do we ensure that if we do not, then we have good arguments to deviate from? Is the Minister prepared to reconsider what this cost-optimal distribution is, which also reflects the feasibility of the measures? Something can be cost-effective, but if it doesn't work until 2050, that's also an argument that you have to weigh in. Finally, the Minister is coming up with a letter on climate policy governance. It wants to maintain the structure of the implementation consultation on the Climate Agreement. Does he agree with the CDA Group that there should be an effective and transparent management of climate policy? Does the governance of the past few years fit in or should we be looking for something better? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u218	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Eerdmans. He speaks for JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister no longer sees feasibility and affordability as a criterion for his climate policy. With this he has indicated that his policy can be quite unfeasible and therefore useless, and also priceless. In short, and in other words, we have a minister who stands for an priceless symbol policy. Last year a survey by Peil.nl by Maurice de Hond showed that only 27% of the Dutch agree. Of the VVD voters, Mr. Erkens, that's only 16%. In short, there really is no basis for the basic principles of this policy. It is clear that democracy is not doing its job here and that the Chamber must intervene in order to correct it. In my opinion, the VVD Group in particular has to ask itself seriously whether it can still recognise itself in the policy and whether it wants to impose this D66 climate policy on its constituents. In particular, I have many questions for the new Minister for Climate Change. Is it true that in 2020 we had a share of renewable energy from sun and wind of 4%? And what share of sun and wind does the Minister expect for 2025 and 2030? Is it true that we spent roughly between 50 and 100 billion on renewable energy until 2021? Is it true that these costs for renewable energy should mainly be borne by households and SMEs, for example, and that SMEs will redistribute these costs to citizens through higher prices? Can the Minister tell us how much the target share of renewable energy will cost per year in 2030 and how these costs will be offset? We would also like to see the costs of grid congestion and backup power stations for wind and sun included. In the meantime, the cabinet is making an intense effort to camouflage the high energy costs for citizens and business through massive subsidies and tax relief. Does the Minister agree with me that the extra cost of the energy transition should always be paid by the citizens? This is done through the direct energy bill or indirectly through SMEs or through grants. Because we are paying them all again, if necessary by means of a different tax. According to the Minister, what will be the total cost of climate policy in 2030? If we know that, JA21 is going to calculate what that would mean for a family with two children. Then there's the CO reduction. It is necessary to combat climate change. However, it is only sensible to say that I have said this many times when the rest of the world is also going to stop emitting CO. We have 0.5% of the total world emissions in the Netherlands. If the rest of the world does not stop, we might as well not stop and restore the purchasing power of our citizens. It now appears that a large part of the eastern and southern EU countries are willing to participate in the Brussels CO reduction, but only if the bill is paid by the EU. What will then be the maximum contribution of the Netherlands to climate policy in the other EU countries? We would like all forms to be taken into account, such as the hundreds of billions for the Corona Restoration Fund, which include climate policy in the southern countries, and the EUR 1 000 billion from the Green Deal of Frans Timmermans. Europe also provides only 10% of the world's CO emissions. Again, in Glasgow, almost all countries in the world have promised to participate in the CO reduction, as in Paris. But even so, most non-Western countries will only reduce CO if the costs are paid by the West. India in particular is very clear about this. That is why a climate fund has been set up, in which the richer countries have to pay 100 billion a year to the poor countries for climate action. The Netherlands should contribute approximately 2.5% in proportion. That is 2.5 billion a year, and it is obvious that these costs will only increase. Mr. Chairman. So it really doesn't matter for the Dutch CO reduction if the rest of the world doesn't participate. That's what people say when they fight this claim. We say that they have to be honest when it happens to a significant extent at the expense of countries like the Netherlands. Or we just look at the Netherlands and then it will not change our climate policy leading to major changes in global warming. Or we look at the whole world, but we also want the calculation of what the Netherlands costs in terms of contribution to the global climate. Mr. Chairman. My time is moving forward and I end with a question about the independent scientific advisory board that the cabinet wants to deploy. I read about that. How independent does it become? How will the Minister ensure the independence of this Advisory Council? Can we as JA21, or other parties, present an expert for this? Can residents present in the stands or listeners do so at home? Or is it just like with Ed Nijpels and the climate tables another room full of like-minded people and are you thrown out of the room if you don't agree with the starting points? I'd like a reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u220	Thank you. That was your contribution. There is a question from Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u221	I must ask Mr Eerdmans a question. Mr Eerdmans states that it is all D66 climate policy and so on. He talks about the cost of it all the time. Now that gas prices are so high due to geopolitical tensions in Eastern Europe, does he realize that we are dependent on non-free countries, such as Russia? If he realizes that, is he willing to ensure that we increase energy production in the Netherlands? This can be done through nuclear energy, but also through other sustainable methods of production.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u222	Yes, in many ways we will depend on other countries for energy as long as we do not have it in our own hands. With our party, I am in favour of the creation of more nuclear power stations. Then we can generate our energy in our own hands. I believe 15% of the gas comes from Russia. So that's a threat right now. It also means that we can also supplement our stocks with gas from other countries, such as Norway. But JA21 is certainly aware of the period when fossil will no longer be available. And then it would be very good if we could generate enough nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u223	A follow-up question from Mr Erkens. Last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u224	Well, then, let's go peel off. We have a 35 billion climate fund. That is also what Mr Eerdmans said in his speech. There is money in it for insulation, for nuclear energy and for other sustainable methods of generation for our electricity grid. These are all things that will also have to guarantee and improve the sustainability of households in the future. Does he disagree with climate policy at all, in other words with the fact that we do these things? Or does he just disagree with a number of aspects of it? In the meantime, I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u225	We think climate policy is moving far too fast. That's gonna torpedo the wallet of a lot of people. People are forced to go off the gas, at the moment, as we speak, in the Netherlands. So that's not going well. We are also strongly opposed to the continuation of solar and wind energy in the way it is now going, namely many more of those mega-turbines. We see great objections there. At the same time, we see the end of fossil energy in the future. And then we say: you could respond to that in a very good way cleanly and safely with nuclear energy. That is also a question for the Minister later. He was always a stated opponent of nuclear power. He's noticed with me that you can't heat houses with that. Those were the words of the minister when he was a Member of Parliament. So the question is: how serious is that part of the coalition agreement that JA21 is happy with... actively working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u226	But that question lies with the Minister. Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Grinwis, who is speaking on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Climate change often seems to be an issue beyond our control. We're talking about something as big as the vitality of our planet. If you are about to tackle such a big issue, such a big challenge, then it is good to first of all go back to our values, to the deepest motives for tackling this challenge and challenge of climate change, energy transition and circular economy: the concern for the creation that we have on loan. The care for our common home, the care for each other, so that no one is left destitute. But the risk of these kinds of big issues is sometimes that we stick to fine words, good intentions and high goals, and that the actions lag behind, or that we only talk about systems and megatons, but forget about the local base of residents and their neighborhood. That is why I welcome the following sentence of the coalition agreement: "This cabinet wants to enable households and communities, businesses and cooperatives, villages and cities to make this sustainable change." This is reflected, for example, in the national isolation programme, but also in something as essential as local ownership through energy cooperatives. There, locally, is still a world to be won. My question to the Minister is: does he share that? And what is his commitment, even when it comes to preventing energy poverty? I hope that the Minister for Climate and Energy will become a minister with a department that knows how to do it. After all, 2030 is tomorrow and 2050 the day after tomorrow. When I read the main letter from the Minister, I am not quite sure. Priorities seem to lie more in the juridifying of large plans and high goals than in what the practice now needs. I can give you many examples where change is urgently needed, sometimes with urgent legislative proposals that we would rather receive today than tomorrow, but I will mention only three. Firstly, decoupling heat prices from the price of natural gas. Secondly, the mandatory filling rate for gas deposits for the coming winter. And third, to adjust the SDE-systematiek, so that money will not only be available for renewable geothermal energy in 2023, but already this year. I would like a promise from the Minister that he will set this on fire in the short term. Surely it can't be that in May there can be a nice new goal in a climate law, but that we will lose what we need to achieve that goal until next year? For example, subsidies for sustainable heat, a longer-term SDE decision, or opportunities for circular hydrogen from residual gases. Climate and energy transition affects virtually everything in our society and policy. The Minister is a coordinating executive. Not only must he ensure that the climate noses in the cabinet are in the same direction, but he must also ensure that the implementation of the coalition agreement runs smoothly. Like the Minister of Finance, who controls the Members who spend the money, this Minister must ensure that his colleagues deliver butter to the fish. And how's he gonna do that? How, for example, does he prevent another not so good letter from colleague De Jonge about data centers from going to the Chamber? This shows that a hyperscale data center in Zeewolde is not put in the way of strawbreed. Or worse: it shows that no action is being taken against the arrival of the gigadata centers in the municipality of Hollands Kroon, and that the NOVI, the National Environment vision, seems to be above and above the coalition agreement. In other words, how is this minister going to steer the reduction of demand for energy, and in this case electricity, something they have never been so keen on at EZK to date? And how is the Minister going to shape his coordinating role as climate minister when it comes to climate adaptation, and above all circular economy? Both subjects have been brought to the Ministry of IenW. And what space does the Minister see in achieving more greenhouse gas reductions in one sector and less in the other? I noticed from the table in his letter that, for example, the indicative objective for the built environment is very high, while it is very low for industry. For the built environment, is the fast phasing-out path for woody biomass already included? And does the Minister think that the potential of green industrial policy, of tailor-made agreements, pricing, standards and enforcement, is sufficiently high? And what about the displacement series for large consumers of natural gas? When will it be ready? With the war language from Moscow, the non-certification of Nord Stream 2 and the possible reduction of gas supplies to Europe, the urgency is enormous. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of my contribution, I advocated a climate minister who first and foremost took action. In doing so, he can count on encouraging cooperation with my group, and on a country with a rich tradition of cooperation and results. After all, the coalition agreement does not for nothing with the following words in terms of climate and energy. "As our ancestors together infiltrated inland waterways and built Delta Works, we are now joining forces to build a green future." That's why I'd like to give the Minister another tip. I know how difficult it is for EZK or BZK to fix the energy transition in practice. Before you know it, EZK thinks: oh, we realize that energy transition by arranging the market organisation properly, with the ACM as watchdog. Or before you know it, BZK thinks it's possible to isolate houses by hanging a grant somewhere in a row. But that's not gonna work out. Take a good look at the world that built the Delta Works, at Rijkswaterstaat. And therefore take a good look at how in the first decades of this century Rijkswaterstaat set up a large project like Space for the River. A touch of Rijkswaterstaat will help the energy transition. I wonder if the Minister sees it that way. That was my contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u228	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Thijssen. He speaks for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was visiting Victor and Hans yesterday. They both live in a rental house in Zoetermeer. Just over a year ago, they got six solar panels on their roof. They were at first a little hesitant and hesitant about it. But I was visiting them yesterday. I got a cup of coffee. Then I asked, "What do you think?" They said: well, actually this is very nice, because our energy bill is about €200 to €250 lower this year. If that housing association had also dealt with their house and made sure that it was well insulated, then of course the energy bill would have fallen even further and Victor and Hans would have suffered much less from these enormous energy price increases that are now there. The same goes for a cop, a teacher, a nurse who owns a store. Of course, he or she wants to isolate his or her house. But it will take just €20,000 or €25,000 to do that. And yes, they don't have that money on the shelf to do that. And then they won't be able to get those subsidies that are there for this, because you can only apply for them afterwards. I would like to make a number of proposals today to make and maintain this whole climate transition, which is, above all, a social transition as far as the Labour Party is concerned, feasible and affordable. I come now with proposals on the built environment, but I will come forward with all kinds of proposals in the coming months, including in the other areas. Firstly, the PvdA welcomes the national isolation programme which is also included in the coalition agreement. The problem is that, for example, the agent, teacher or nurse with his own house does not just have a lot of money on the shelf to make the house more sustainable. That is why the concrete proposal of the Labour Party to extend the Heat Fund, which already exists, is much further. An agent and a teacher should be able to borrow €25,000 at 0% interest so that they can participate in the insulation of the house and put those solar panels on the roof. For example, they can reduce their energy bill and contribute to climate change and to less dependence on gas. The Labour Party wants the housing corporations, like Victor and Hans, to be obliged to fill the roofs with solar panels as soon as possible to get that energy bill down and that all homes that are still very drafty and where the gas is being run through are well insulated by 2030. The Labour Party wants the third proposal that house milkers are also obliged to do so: solar panels on the roof, let the tenants participate and make sure that these rental homes are properly insulated. Now squeaks and cracks the power grid. We heard this last week in a debate. This scaling-up of solar energy is possible if the system operators are instructed to simply achieve much more storage capacity in the grid. We've heard that's possible. This brings together the energy transition, the rising gas prices, but also the necessary growth of renewable energy in the built environment. But in the very short term, of course, that will not help us at all. An agent, a nurse or teacher does not have just over €1,000 lying on the shelf to pay higher gas prices. The PvdA therefore wants the Minister and the Cabinet to fix this. The statement by Minister Kaag that no compensation will be made in the very short term is totally unacceptable as far as the Labour Party is concerned. This compensation must simply be provided, because people simply cannot do this. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. With these rising gas prices, you'd almost forget that we're here in the climate debate. That is a terribly important debate, because our beloved country is threatened by climate change. It is therefore a good thing that the goal of the coalition agreement has been raised. It is good that there is a separate minister and it is also very good that this person will play that role in the coming years; congratulations again. It is extremely important, as I have also shown in my example of Hans and Victor, that climate change is being tackled in a fair way. There is talk with the Labour Party about the 35 billion, about the fact that we need to invest it in our country, that we need to get rid of the gas and that the CO pollution goes down. But the life of that cop, that teacher, that nurse, needs to get better through climate policy. It's possible. You can isolate houses and take them off the gas, you can electric from A to B with cheaper and better ov and with electric subcars. We can generate a lot more green jobs, with a green industrial policy, than all those fossil jobs we have today. We will need a working guarantee fund, but I will make proposals on this later. It can be feasible and affordable, but the coalition must really change course. For the past four years, that has not been the policy. Then the subsidies ended up twice as much with the rich as with the people on less high incomes. Then the rich could buy an electric car, put solar panels on their roof and benefit from the subsidies, but people who didn't have access to that capital couldn't. Hence our proposal: make sure that these people can invest 0% interest in their homes and benefit from it. I am therefore looking forward to a response from this Minister. Climate policy must indeed be fair so that everyone can experience it in a feasible and affordable way. I also agree with the bright green words of my colleague from GroenLinks. It's nice that we complement each other so well. It is very important that climate policy is bright green and bright red. I think there will be more proposals for this. I would like to repeat two questions from her to the Minister, firstly the question of timing. I had the debate with the Minister of Industry yesterday. He's not gonna save May 1st. Then how are we going to know at some point whether it adds up to 60%? Secondly, there was the very important question of whether the Minister has the power to make these wonderful goals public. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u230	Thank you for your contribution. Mrs Simons has the floor. It shall speak on behalf of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by fully endorsing Mrs Teunissen's contribution. I agree with every word and every question she's asked. That means that I have been able to delete some things from my own contribution, which is as follows. Mr. Chairman. The climate crisis is a direct threat to the survival of our world: humans, animals and nature. That is not a problem of the future, but of the here and now. Animal species are dying out, millions of people are displaced, a shortage of water is at risk for large parts of the world, while the streets in other areas are increasingly flooding. Everything starts with recognition. On the initiative of my party, among other things, Amsterdam proclaimed the climate crisis almost three years ago. Other cities followed, but national action remained out. Does the Minister agree that the urgency of this crisis should be explicitly stated? And what's stopping us from ringing the bell, like the knowledge that's been trying to do for over 50 years? Mr. Chairman. When we talk about recognition, I would like to talk about the causes of the climate crisis: market forces and the insatiable hunger for profit. Forests are allowed to disappear. Water may be polluted. Animal species may be extinct. Everything, but everything, and every life must give way to economic growth, which in reality is not growth but decline. Large Western companies have made their destructive mark worldwide. While they are swimming in money, elsewhere people who have the least or even no responsibility at all are already suffering from enormous droughts, violent storms and a shortage of food. They lose their homes, for example by oil pollution or by being driven out, so that rainforest can be felled to feed the unsustainable bio-industrie. Mr. Chairman. That is simply criminal. Companies like Shell have blood on their hands and continue to pollute freely, knowing for decades what incredible damage they do. In the Netherlands I am thinking of a company like Tata Steel. It's the same thing. Meanwhile, large PR agencies are being used to polish their image. It's called greenwashing. As far as BET1 is concerned, we simply keep such businesses............................................................................................................................................................................ Then the fundamental choice is: are we going to pay the big polluters or are we going to fill their pockets with pointless subsidies? Do we increase taxes on everyday activities with minimal impact or do we start dismantling the systems that have brought us here? After all, a crisis cannot be solved while keeping the cause alive. Fluffy goals, huge funds for large companies spread over decades: it's totally invisible and hard to fathom. Then we're left with the hope that the market will solve it. If we wait for that, then it all turns out to be a catastrophe. Mr. Chairman. System change is really the only way out. Some haste would be appropriate, because we know thanks to the knowledge that the objective of being climate neutral by 2050 will by far not be enough. We're heading for high-speed trains between 2 and 3 degrees of warm-up. The consequences will be disastrous. The KNMI therefore indicates that the models with which we calculate the warming, also called "committed warming," are very complex and have fallen out more often. I ask the Minister: to what extent is there an emergency plan to be so climate neutral in five to eight years, for example, that if it turns out that science is right, we can still live and survive together? We need to take a critical look at our policies. What is the Minister's view, for example, of a climate test, both for future plans and with retroactive effect, which looks at the whole policy? What are the climate consequences of any policy? Mr. Chairman. I know that the Netherlands cannot solve the climate crisis alone. But we can assume our responsibilities and commit ourselves to international cooperation and solidarity. We can recognise that we are a tax haven that keeps the door wide open to polluting companies. We can see that we cannot live up to our big talk as long as billions of subsidies are still being pumped into the fossil sector. We can stop avoiding the much-needed conversation about the bio-industry. And we can see that with all this we're not just touching ourselves, but the whole world and future generations. In other words, it is about fundamental change and accepting that not everything can always remain the same and that our systems are not made for the well-being of all of us, but for the prosperity of some, at the expense of all that lives. Mr. Chairman. That is why I welcome a bold minister who dares to make naughty statements. I wish to express my wish that he is prepared to go even further than is already on paper. My blessing is with you, for our future depends on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u232	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Kops has the floor. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u233	Thank you, Mr President. What about the rise in sea level on our coast? It's constantly rising by less than 2 millimeters a year, and that's been going on for over 100 years. Are there perhaps more floods, or more natural disasters? No, on the contrary, much less. Predictions of the past decades that almost the whole world would perish due to climate change have never come true. That's a good thing. However, climate hysteria is becoming more and more profound, increasingly costly, so to speak, more and more repulsive. 35 billion will put this cabinet in a climate fund, and 25 billion in some kind of nitrogen fund. That's all on top of the tens of billions that were already budgeted. Then we come to a total of about 100 billion for climate and nitrogen. That's unbelievable. Meanwhile, the people at home can no longer pay the rent, or the now towering energy bill. They're not getting anything extra from this cabinet right now, but for climate and nitrogen, the billions are flying around you with the greatest ease, as if it all costs nothing. And that while the Netherlands, that very small country, is responsible for less than 0.5% of total global CO emissions. And yet in the Netherlands, all our coal plants must be shut down, because: CO reduction, while in Asia there are plenty of coal plants being built up. How hypocritical do you want it? By the way, what the Netherlands emits in a whole year of CO emissions, a country like China emits in less than one week. The climate targets will not even be met here. This 49% CO2 reduction in 2030 will not work, despite the billions wasted on it. How can the government decide with good sense to raise these climate targets to 55% and even 60% in policy? It's too bizarre for words. The conclusion is that the VVD just went down its knees for D66. We even have a D66 climate minister now. Of course, that's gonna be a big drama. Mr. Chairman. Climate policy is not only unfeasible and priceless, but it is also bad, downright bad for people, animals and nature. Take wind turbines, for example. They are harmful to the health of local residents. There are even residents who decide to move there. And yes, there they are: the climate refugees. They do exist here in the Netherlands. Tell me for yourself, not exactly sustainable. Or take biomass. It's a disaster for nature. Trees are cut down to burn in biomass plants. By the way, not less, but more CO than coal and gas. How contradictory do you want it to be? Tell me for yourself: not all of them are sustainable. Mr. Chairman. What is supposed to be protected by climate policy is in fact simply destroyed. And that with billions of subsidies, coughed up by households, by companies, through the already towering energy bill. There is therefore no climate crisis, or whatever, but what is really there is an energy billing crisis. How scandalous is it, then, that the D66 Minister of Finance has already indicated that he does not want to compensate households extra? And why not? Because that would potentially be at the expense of climate spending. How scandalous is it, then, that this D66 climate minister has indicated that he wants to get rid of the "feasible and affordable" principle? With that, he actually tells all those people at home, those households, who are sitting nicely with that towering energy bill: figure it out. So there is nothing extra for them in these difficult times. They are abandoned hard, but there is an extra 60 billion for climate and nitrogen. It's just really antisocial. Mr. Chairman. Energy poverty is a serious growing problem in the Netherlands. Hundreds of thousands of households can't afford that energy bill anymore. Households also live in hidden energy poverty. That means that they dare not turn on the stove at all for fear of that charge. So out of fear of that account, these people are literally in the cold. What does the Cabinet do for these people? Finally, the conclusion. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop the nature-destructive biomass. Stop all climate subsidies and all other green madness. And make energy, a primary need for life, affordable for everyone again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u234	Thank you for your contribution. I thought Mr Bontenbal was the first person to see an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u235	Mr Kops mentioned the rise in sea level. Exactly a month ago, the KNMI published a new report on this subject, which says that it rises 3 mm a year, that it rises much faster than before, one and a half times as fast as the century before. So, according to the scientists and experts, the rise in sea level is indeed a major problem. Isn't it much fairer and better to question in this kind of debate not these kinds of facts that are generally shared by scientists, but simply to take the science on climate change and sea level rise seriously and then to think through how you as a party are ideologically reacting to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u236	I'm telling you facts here. On the Dutch coast, sea levels do not rise faster but constantly by less than 2 mm per year and have been rising for 129 years: Source: Compensate for the Environment. Even our own delta Commissioner Peter Glass has said: no, sea level is not rising faster but at 20 cm per century as we have seen for centuries. He says to the question whether we should worry: no. He says on the question of whether we are safe: yes, no reason to panic, we are safe until 2050 even. The Maeslant barrier is due to replace after 2070 and the Oosterschelde barrier has been built for 200 years. Even the IPCC says that sea level increased by only 20 cm between 1901 and 2018. And we can handle it just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u237	A follow-up question from Mr Bontenbal, the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u238	Mr Kops does not hear me say that, as some say, sea levels will rise to 3 metres within a number of decades. I also hear these extreme scenarios and they are often based on the most extreme climate scenario. But a month ago, the most recent study of the KNMI was that of those who knew about it, and it literally states that in recent decades, the speed appears to be about 3 mm per year, which is one and a half times as fast as the increase over the last century. That is a whole article with a scientific research that is underneath and the PBL is probably based on information from before. But this is just what science says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u239	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u240	Ideologically, Mr Kops may have a completely different view of energy transition and climate policy, but always undermining the scientific basis under these kinds of discussions, I actually find a weakness offer. Shouldn't you rather say: I embrace what scientists say on this point and then, from my ideology, I make my own vision of climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u241	I'm not undermining anything. I am quoting our own delta commissioner here. Mr. Bontenbal therefore implies that he does not trust our own delta commissioner, that he does not trust the Compound for the Environment, that he does not trust the IPCC he always quotes himself, that would be right, by the way, that sea level rose by 20 cm between 1901 and 2018. That's just the facts. Then we can indeed now discuss 2 mm or 3 mm. I'm fine with all that, but that aside, the latest report from the KNMI you mentioned was presented in the press...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u242	That Mr. Bontenball quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u243	Sorry, Chairman. That report was presented in the media and Members of Parliament were asking for very heated debates about it. It was presented as if we were facing a sea-level rise in metres, but that is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u244	Enough, I think. Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u245	I know the PVV as a party that fights for our country and the people in this country. I'm sure I'm falling apart by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u246	From the eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u247	I also hope that the PVV will fight for the children in this country. The delta commissioner says "until 2050," but I hope that the country will still exist for a while afterwards. I hope that I will live for a few more years, but at least my children will be able to live in this beautiful country for a very long time. Because a delta commissioner said "until 2050," you say now: there is no problem with climate change and there is no problem with sea level rising. We're looking at the bigger spans of time. We need to look at the greater effects of climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u248	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u249	The Secretary-General of the United Nations says that the code is red for humanity and certainly for the low-lying Netherlands. But if you want to wipe away all those climate scientists, I would remind you that this weekend there was another beautiful article by a former Commander of the Armed Forces, Mr Middendorp. He says: "The wars of the coming season are about food and climate, food and water." Those detestable refugees of yours are going to increase enormously if you do not stop climate change. Those refugees will also come to your beautiful Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u250	Please come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u251	If the PVV loves this country and the people in this country, wants to keep refugees out, but above all wants to keep this country safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u252	Mr Thijssen makes three points. I'd like to respond to all three.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u253	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u254	Well, short? It is a long interruption, so you can expect a relatively long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u255	You mustn't requite evil with evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u256	Mr Thijssen quotes the UN. In 1972, the UN said: we only have ten years to stop a climate catastrophe. I didn't see that catastrophe. In 2007, the same UN said that if we do not act before 2012, it will be too late. I haven't seen any major dramas. In 2019, the same UN said: we only have 11 years to prevent irreversible damage. So all these dramatic predictions by the UN, to which Mr Thijssen refers, have not been fulfilled. Secondly, the climate refugees, which Mr Thijssen is talking about. I wonder very much how many asylum seekers have indicated in this country: I came to the Netherlands because of the climate, because the climate in the Netherlands is so much better. If we have to follow Mr Thijssen's reasoning, namely that our country and the whole world will be flooded, why would these asylum seekers come to the Netherlands at all, a country that is largely below sea level? Can you explain that? Then third. Mr Thijssen also mentioned our children. We want a safe and beautiful Netherlands for our children. That is why we must not throw tens of billions of dollars into climate and nitrogen, for which our children ultimately have to pay the bill. We do not want to build up our land with wind turbines, which are at the expense of health and also of nature, Mr Thijssen. We don't want that. Nor do we want biomass, the burning of trees, as Mr Thijssen himself wants, which destroys nature. As I said, this climate policy of yours, which you claim to protect, is destroying so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u257	That's enough, I think. A brief reply from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u258	It is really very worrying that the PVV is sticking its head in the sand for one of the biggest threats of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u259	Why don't you go into what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u260	No, no, one moment, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u261	You don't! You're just sending.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u262	No, Mr Thijssen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u263	I find it very worrying that the PVV is putting its head in the sand for one of the biggest threats to this country, because people know very well that the climate is changing and they are very keen to contribute to it. I would like the PVV to leave the poor together with the Labour Party and ensure that the climate policy we are about to pursue is fair and that the big polluters are going to pay billions, which is not going to happen now. I would also like us to help people to isolate their homes in a feasible and affordable way, so that they are better placed. Can we make plans about that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u264	That's a clear question. Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u265	It is not feasible and it is not affordable. Just look at the current energy bill that has risen to a sky high level. It's all not affordable. Look at the ODE grants. That's what people are for. People just pay and pay. It's not affordable. People at home are literally in the cold. Mr Thijssen referred to 'a single hand', but that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u266	Clear. Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u267	Mr Kops cannot save the world, nor can I, but we can prevent Mr Kops and I from sticking our heads in the sand. As soon as he quotes the delta commissioner, I always wake up. After all, I worked there. I have to ask Mr Kops: does he agree with me that the results of the past do not guarantee the future? He always answers Mr Bontenbal's questions about the future by referring to the past, namely the rise in sea levels in the last century. With regard to the Dutch coast, Mr Kops has the facts on his side. But elsewhere in the world, acceleration is already being measured. We know that sooner or later sea-level acceleration will also take place off the Dutch coast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u268	I think the question is clear, Mr. Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u269	Will he at least take precautions for the next generation of PVV voters, both in protecting the Dutch coast and in preventing climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u270	Protecting the Dutch coast is, of course, a very good plan. That's what we have to do. Of course, the Netherlands has been doing this for centuries. The Netherlands can do that very well. And if a delta commissioner says we're safe at least until 2050, I don't understand Mr Grinwis' panic. Mr Grinwis talks about "putting the head in the sand." Let's just look at the facts. The Netherlands is responsible for less than half a percent of total CO emissions. He blamed me... At least, it wasn't really a reproach, but he told me that I can't save the world and neither can he. But as the Netherlands, responsible for half a percent of these global emissions, we have no influence on this either. And then we're going to get houses off the gas here in the Netherlands, while households in Germany even get money if they take gas. We in the Netherlands are going to close down the few coal plants that we still have and which are by the way among the most modern and cleanest in the world, while there are plenty of coal plants being built up in Asia. And if we ignore that as if we could save the whole world in this small country with our climate policy, as Mr Grinwis does, then we will be sticking our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u271	A final reaction from Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u272	I'm standing here anything but panicky. We need to be sober and alert. It is precisely in our water safety approach that we are, with the delta Commissioner and the Delta programme. So I'm glad we can find each other in that. The same delta Commissioner also acknowledges that what happened in Limburg, for example, last summer, has to do with climate change. We need to prepare for that. It is also wise to try to prevent climate change. Let me change it. With this knowledge of water, we as the Dutch economy have made a huge amount of money by exporting it all over the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u273	Would you like to ask a question, Mr Grinwis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u274	Then we can, with our knowledge of green industrial policy and of green industrial policy, create jobs and earn money in the future. In doing so, we can contribute to the future of this world. Doesn't Mr. Kops see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u275	Well, from earlier research that I think TNO... I didn't bring the research,............................................................................................................................................... And my answer to that story about green industrial policy is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u276	You don't believe in that. Mrs Teunissen with her last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u277	In the whole story of the PVV that they say they stand for the safety of the Dutch, I should do the opposite by constantly denying everything that has to do with climate change. I also heard Mr Kops say: the UN has been warning us all along, and none of that is true. Then I would like to know how the PVV judges what happened in Limburg. That's really bad, isn't it? Didn't the PVV itself draw attention to that at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u278	Sure. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u279	This is one of the consequences of climate change. Scientists have determined...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u280	Who?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u281	Scientists have found that the disaster in Limburg, the floods, has been exacerbated by climate change. We are only going to see this again in the years to come if we do not take measures now. Then how can the PVV keep doing this? The majority of the Netherlands are also very concerned about this. How can the PVV insist that this party stands for the safety of the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u282	Of course, it's terrible what happened to those floods. I have already said in previous debates that the link with climate change, for example the Party for Animals, has simply not been demonstrated. Secondly, it simply exploits the misery in which the Limburgers are sitting to push through the climate story. In Limburg there was a depression that revolved around its own axis. It was like a centrifuge of showers. And not so long ago, I think a few weeks ago, it turned out that the Water Board of Limburg has manipulated reports of the flood disaster. These include sensitive information about events which were simply not high enough. It was also about criticizing a driver who gave false forecasts in the media about the water level. In other words, we can say that the people responsible for solving the problems have simply largely failed. And that link to climate change is, of course, very easy, but it is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u283	Clear. Thank you. You completed your contribution? I call Mr Jansen. He speaks on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u284	Thank you. A lot has come by again: many climate agreements, climate laws, climate ambitions and climate policy. But what's actually going on here is climate blackmail. While the energy bill has risen to an unprecedented level, it has doubled in a year; it's just unbelievable what's happening here, half a million people in the Netherlands are no longer able to pay the bill. It has already been mentioned: energy poverty is an increasing problem. The reaction to that isn't that we're going to help people. No, we're just gonna make it worse. This increase is mainly due to the increase in gas prices. The cabinet chooses not to lower the gas tax, but to lower the electricity tax. The electricity tax has fallen by 60%. What the hell is going on here? This is just the plan. It's just the cabinet's goal to force people off the gas. Otherwise, the gas tax would be compensated. My motion from a few weeks ago, to reduce the gas tax by 60%, was rejected. The taxation of gas has more than doubled over the last ten years under the Rutte Cabinets. 92% of households in the Netherlands are on gas. This is just common blackmail. People have to pay their energy bills. What's going on? The gas price is going up. The cabinet chooses to lower the electricity price, to eventually force people to switch. It's just common blackmail. The cabinet closes the Groningenveld, makes itself dependent on all international gas prices and seeks to fight with Russia, on which we are now dependent. If the starting point is that the energy should be affordable, then you wouldn't do any of that. If you look at this logically, the only starting point may be that you want the gas price to rise, so that people convert their homes to an electrified, water pump-like model. The direct consequence of this is that normal Dutch people suffer from this. I told you, half a million people can't afford the energy bill anymore. Mr Kops was right to say that a lot of people choose not to turn on the central heating boiler, so to sit in the cold at home. That is the direct consequence of your policy. You're not saving Earth. You're putting people at home in the cold. You're helping people in financial trouble. That is the only real consequence of what is happening here. Because what you want is technically...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u285	One moment. I was chewing on the word "you." I don't think I'm you guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u286	"Men." Good. What the Chamber achieves...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u287	I therefore call for a more cautious wording. I would ask you to opt for a more inclusive wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u288	Okay, I'll be more precise. These are the parties that have submitted the Climate Act, for example. These are CDA, VVD, D66, GroenLinks, SP, ChristenUnion, and of course not to forget, PvdA. What all these parties achieve is that normal Dutch people suffer from some vague idea. It's all climate racing. They're all ideas about taking houses off the gas. It's just not technically possible. In recent years we have been working on the Natural Gas Free Neighbourhood Programme. 600 homes have been completed. It's got 230 million in it. Nobody knows where that money went. There has not been any accountability. The project has completely failed in all possible ways. The Economic Institute for Construction has calculated that if you want to take that whole built environment off the gas that is the purpose of the Climate Agreement; I have looked it up once again; it does not say "natural gas-ready' but really "natural gas-free' which costs at least 650 billion. We were just talking about it: the network operators warned that it costs 100 billion to strengthen the network. Housing areas cannot be built at the moment, because the power capacity is too low. Power failure was warned at the beginning of the winter. We were lucky with the weather, but if it had been colder, there would probably have been a power outage. We've weakened our own energy grid so much that we're now dealing with the possibility of power failure. It's an endless list that we can go on with for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u289	Wait a minute, or we'll have another paragraph, I'll just say. I can only allow Mrs Leijten to speak on a point of order, not an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u290	Mr. Chairman. The Climate Act was just cited. It doesn't say how to do it, it says you have to do it. We have had a lot of discussions here in the Chamber about the interpretation. Unfortunately, the Forum for Democracy is never present to discuss this, but saying that it is because of the Climate Act that the energy bill is so high is a factual error.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u291	That seems to me to be a statement that does not require any reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u292	Well, actually, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u293	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u294	Well, Mr President, perhaps you can stop time, because I think this is more of an interruption than a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u295	No, there's no interruption allowed. This was a factual finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u296	So what changed at the time of the sitting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u297	We have allowed four questions. Mrs. Leijten makes here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u298	Mrs Leijten wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u299	Mrs Leijten makes a point of order here, stating that the climate law has a different status.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u300	But that's not about the order of business, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u301	No, but that's not why this interruption or input is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u302	Mr President, you should not have allowed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u303	You are requested to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u304	No, then I'd like to respond, because this was obviously an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u305	You'll blur it in your speech. That seems to me to be better than making this an additional interruption. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u306	Mr President, I do not think that is right. I would like to object to this, because this was not an order proposal. It was not about speaking time or stopping the sitting or anything like that. It was a substantive point about my speech. Then it's an interruption, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u307	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u308	Mr President, I find this very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u309	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u310	Good. I'm moving on. I have just mentioned an endless list of all the technical reasons why what the parties I have just mentioned cannot do. That is simply not technically feasible, and if it were feasible, it would cost an enormous amount of money. These are hundreds, even thousands, of billions for all climate ideas that, once confronted with reality, immediately fall apart. We have to stop this. It doesn't make sense to spend a thousand billion on some kind of vague idea of less global warming. It's 0.00007 degrees. That's a lot of math. The only rational thing we can do now is to compensate the Groningen generously, continue with the gas extraction and bring down the tax on gas, so that the energy bill becomes affordable again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u311	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Stoffer has the floor. He speaks for the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u312	Mr. Chairman. The crisis surrounding Russia and Ukraine shows the need to make our energy supply more sustainable. Old General Middendorp points out that drought problems caused by climate change in Russia threaten food security, with against the grain barn Ukraine. We too have a big problem when Putin completely shuts down the gas tap. In the meantime, the minister assumes that the industry will shut down, but these companies indicate that they cannot do so. My question in between is therefore: how will the Minister deal with this? Back to the line of the debate. In any case, stewardship calls for the sustainability of energy and raw materials supplies, with less CO emissions and less dependence on abroad. However, the SGP wants to keep its energy supply reliable and affordable. Because the gardener and the baker who now look at their doubled energy bill with fear must be able to switch. This also applies to the postman who lives with his family in a poorly isolated house and drives an old petrol car. I have another question in between, but now in view of this last household. Will the Minister also allow investment subsidies for renewable energy and energy saving for households that can only take one sustainability measure? I would say: in that respect, not a climate drama, but just a healthy farmers' understanding of how to get everyone involved. Mr. Chairman. The CPB states in its analysis of the coalition agreement that various measures, such as the obligation to mix green gas, will create burdens for households and entrepreneurs, but that the planning agency did not have enough time to calculate them. My question to the Minister is whether he still wants to take care of such a transfer. For the design of the energy tax it is wise to have the financial picture complete. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is positive about, among other things, the use of biogas, a national isolation programme, the increase in flight load and recycling in building materials. But the plans also raise questions, because what energy system does the cabinet envisage? Experts say: quickly get a vision of the energy systems in 2050 and then see what you should or should not be focusing on. This way you prevent the wrong horses from being wagered under pressure from climate law targets. It is also a good thing that a national energy system 2050 is being drawn up. However, could this lead to a revision of the package of measures that is now in place, with, for example, more focus on energy from water? The SGP also calls for the system costs of different options to be included in the SDE++ scheme. On that point, a motion has been passed by the Chamber. My question is: how does the new minister handle this? The Climate Act now states that "our ministers are aiming for a 49% reduction by 2030." But according to the coalition agreement, this should be 55%. So our ministers are aiming for a 55% reduction. But I also read that they must strive for a 60% reduction. My question is, what is it now? I don't want semantic debates or discussions about goalposts, I just want to work on implementation. In any case, the question remains: can we achieve 55% to 60% in seven years? Is this feasible with an electricity grid that is lagging behind and a shortage of technicians, with the planned reduction of most wooded biomass in our power plants, which is now more than 10% of our renewable energy, and with a doubling of the already hard-to-reach reduction for the built environment? The planning agency indicates that the proposed package of measures is more likely to achieve less than 55% reduction than more. Mr. Chairman. I also have a few questions about individual measures. According to the coalition agreement, the marginal levy should be increased on top of the ETS price for industry. But what is the CO reduction at European level if the cabinet does not choose to remove these rights from the market? The cabinet and coalition want to mix 20% green gas. But there is insufficient capacity for this. Will there then be an obligation for network operators to connect production facilities? And is green gas also included in regional energy strategies? Mr. Chairman. The Chamber adopted the Stoffer/Eerdmans motion asking the government to be extremely critical of the "Fit for 55" proposals for the built environment. How is the government going to implement this adopted motion? I have one last question. I notice in the country, in my environment, that there are quite a lot of people who want something about new energy and so on, who really do say: we also have to take responsibility for the climate. But these people are very critical of all the windmills and so on, and so on. So my final question is: what is the big story with which this minister intends to take all layers with the emphasis on all the other parts of our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u313	Thank you for your input. Finally, Mrs Van der Plas has the floor. It shall speak on behalf of the BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u314	Thank you. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. Am I a climate denier? I don't want anything? Of course, there's no denying or not wanting anything. We can deal better with our Earth, and I think that's what everyone thinks. But I am concerned about the pace and ambition with which this climate policy is pushed down everyone's throats. While the Dutch are no longer able to pay their bills......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Not 6 million, not 60 million, not 600 million, not even 6,000 million, but 60,000 million euros. In the letter, the Minister repeatedly states that the Netherlands wants to be the frontrunner in climate policy and the transition to a green economy. Which Netherlands is the Minister talking about? TU Delft states that in the extensive citizen consultation only 6% of respondents support the all-out-of-the-box policy. The Planning Office for the Environment, the PBL, also questions the high ambitions of the cabinet. How does the Minister explain the support for this all-out-of-the-box policy? And how does the Minister see that in the light of all the ifs and buts he expressed in the letter on policy adjustment and review, should the report of the PBL show, for example, that the results of measures are disappointing? Do we have to do even more to achieve the goals, or is it also possible for targets to be adjusted downwards if they are not feasible in real life? Mr. Chairman. Of the 35 billion, that is, €35,000 million, that we are taking out for the climate, not a penny is mentioned for agriculture. Don't we have kilos of butter on our heads? If it were Dutch butter, it would still be sustainable butter with a low ecological footprint, but now you have a chance that it will be produced abroad, with many times more greenhouse gas emissions. I have asked before: what good is the global climate if we pretend to have a dome over the Netherlands and just look at the national greenhouse gas emissions and not think in the same CO-extruding breath what this means for global production? After all, for every cow you take away in the Netherlands, two come back elsewhere in the world, with more land use and more emissions. Can the Minister explain this? How is the Minister going to prevent carbon leakage from agriculture? The climate fund now only mentions greenhouse horticulture. It refers to the nitrogen fund, but that is really meant for other things, especially for the reduction of food production in the Netherlands. Yes, chairman: tapedown. While there are serious concerns about food scarcity and the Red Cross in the UN Food Organisation, the FAO, and the World Health Organisation, and the Red Cross, because almost 1 billion people are starving every day, we are building up one of the most sustainable, efficient and climate-friendly ways of food production in the world. We are increasingly dependent on food imports. We are already importing more food than we are exporting. It's incredible, and I assure you that in about 20, 30 years' time, our children and grandchildren will be wondering why we did this. That is still separate from the fact that where ever green pastures were on which cows stood, now megazon nebulaes, residential areas and tile gardens lie. But at least you never have to mow again, as this minister said triumphantly a few years ago in such a megazon nebula. BBB is very sceptical about the measures, that may be clear. But if money is to be spent, is the Minister prepared to make funds available for agriculture in the climate fund, so that those farmers who want to stay will be supported by innovations and thus contribute to even cleaner food production? The Minister says no one is left behind. At the same time, we read in the NRC that the Minister is ready with the argument that climate policy must be feasible and affordable. I hope this does not mean that the Minister is going to shatter the many billions carelessly. We have an adopted motion to prevent investments from being made by citizens, who later turned out not to be enough, which means that everything has to be changed. Of course, this should also apply to government policy. Do we know the effects of all these measures? Are they in the picture? Isn't it gonna turn out that we've done things that don't help at all? Can the Minister say anything about that? I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u315	Look. That concludes your contribution, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u316	I only had a little bit left. You'll get there later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u317	Thank you for your contribution. Thank you all for your contributions and your spicy interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-2.u318	We're gonna suspend for lunch for half an hour. After lunch there is a short arrangement of work.
