ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the main debate on government climate plans. We have had the first term of office and it is now the first term of office. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Climate and Energy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for a very interesting first term. On behalf of my colleague Adriaansen's apologies that she cannot be here today for this debate. But luckily, we'll be speaking in a...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	Excuse our guest. First, I would have liked to share with the Chamber how we thought we would continue the sitting this afternoon. We have until 4:30. It would be nice if the Minister could respond in about an hour and a half, including the interruptions. Then we have half an hour before the second term of office. That gives enough air to make a few motions if there is a need. In the last half hour, the Minister can then come back to the motions with an appreciation. That is actually the proposal. I also propose that four further questions be planned in the Minister's first term. In this way, I would like to try to conclude this debate a little in line with the timetable. Shall we do it like this? I see that there is no objection to that. Thank you. Once again, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a very brief general introduction, also in view of time, and then quickly pass the questions raised by the Chamber. I told you, I'm sorry, I'm only in "K" today. My colleague Adriaansens from Economic Affairs and Climate Policy would have liked to have been there, but we will soon be happy to discuss green industrial policy in a more comprehensive committee debate. A number of questions have already been asked about this today, and I will come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has an ambitious agenda for tackling climate change and our energy policy. That's what we're gonna do with 2050. By 2050 at the latest, we want to be climate neutral, so that we can pass on a viable planet to future generations, so that we can live in a fine and clean country, so that we can also ensure that our economy is strong, with lots of green jobs, and so that we are less dependent on countries from where we import our energy now. I certainly can't achieve that goal alone. That's what we'll do together over the next few years. We do so from the cabinet with a large number of ministers and secretaries of state, who are co-responsible for the green policy of this cabinet. We do it together with fellow governments, who stand at the bar to shape energy generation on land and heat transition in the neighborhood. And especially we do it together with people at home and with Dutch companies, who can really shape that new, green, strong economy through innovation. The cabinet is not only looking at what it gives us, that greener, cleaner future, but also at how we do it in a way that everyone can come along with. The Netherlands goes for green, but in a way that everyone can come with. And I understand the concerns in this Chamber about purchasing power in the short term, and about the affordability of those measures. The previous cabinet has already taken measures to reduce the increase in the energy bill. This spring, we will decide on whether more is needed to maintain purchasing power. At the same time, my message is that it is precisely because of this crisis that we need to invest now in climate and energy transition. We do this not only to counter the effects of climate change and the increasingly extreme weather, but also to be less dependent on fossil fuels that we import from, for example, Russia. This is in the interest of all Dutch and Dutch businesses. There will be an enormous amount of work in the coming years. There's a lot of work to do to meet our goals. There's a lot to do. I sent an annex to this Chamber to the main letter. It contains the legislative agenda. There are twelve pages of legislation and regulation that we need to shape together in the coming years. And, among others, Mr Grinwis rightly said that we should not only be laying the groundwork for this climate and energy transition with this legislation, but we should also ensure that we act now. Because we do not have the luxury of waiting for the perfect plan; we will have to get to work now to get to that at least 55% by 2030 and hopefully to that 60% reduction. That is why we are working on the Multiannual Programme Infrastructure, Energy and Climate in the coming years, to prepare our infrastructure at a rapid pace for hydrogen and CO storage, among other things. We're taking big steps with the industrial clusters in this country. We work with network operators and co-governments to expand network capacity, and we see how we can help people at home to make it more sustainable. I very much agree with everyone who has said in this debate that we should take this back from 2050. What does the Dutch economy and society look like in 2050? What plan is there to get there? We should not only look at more sustainable production, but also at energy saving, more sensible management of our raw materials, and always take into account the impact our production and consumption have on nature, humans, animals and public health, not only in the Netherlands, but also in other places in the world where we get these raw materials. I look forward to working with this Chamber and getting convinced when there are better plans to achieve those goals. I am extremely pleased with the first steps I have taken with co-governments, with network operators and with the business community in order to really shoulder their responsibilities in the coming years. I would now like to pass on the questions put by Members of Parliament. I'd like to do that a little bit thematically. Maybe it's good to mention those themes. First of all, these are the questions that have been asked about my role as climate minister in climate policy and the commitment of the Climate Fund. Then I will deal with the questions about the green industrial policy, then with the energy bill, then with the security of gas supply and then with a number of issues that were discussed by one or a few Members of Parliament. These are nuclear energy, biomass, wind, grid management, data centres, oil and heat. In that last block, therefore, they still pass by on the basis of a number of very specific questions that have been asked. I would now like to start with the climate policy block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Thijssen's interrupting speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you for the Minister's introduction. It is good to hear that we are going to do so much work to finally achieve these climate targets. But I'm gonna go back to that huge pile of money the government is taking out to get this done. That is 35 billion and another 25 billion for nature purposes. Again, with the Labour Party there is a lot to talk about, because there is a lot to be done. But especially now that we see these gas prices rise so hugely and that people who can't raise €1,000 or perhaps more simply, it is, if this government spends billions to make society more sustainable and to help large companies, essential that these people, the people who really can't bring this up, are simply fully helped to carry this high energy bill. Does the Minister agree with the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	I very much agree with everyone who has said today that the climate transition only succeeds if it is also a social transition and if people at home also notice that they are being helped in this sustainability and that it also gives them something, with a more pleasant home and a lower energy bill. So that is what we need to do in the first place: in this climate policy, we need to think very carefully about how to relieve and relieve people at home in order to really get involved in this. But even with the most fantastic insulation programs and heat treatment in the neighborhood, we haven't helped every household in the Netherlands within a month. So we must also keep an eye on the short term. The energy bill has risen dramatically in recent times. Many Dutch people already notice this, for example because they have had to transfer their contract or because they have flexible rates. That is why the previous cabinet has already compiled a compensation package of about €400 per household, but we saw last week that if you had to conclude a new annual contract in January, you would have lost €1,200 more than if you had concluded a new annual contract a year ago in January. A lot of people just can't afford that. It is understandable that a lot of people are under enormous stress that their energy bills are rising so rapidly. So, as a cabinet in spring, we will look at how purchasing power is developing in the Netherlands, as the Minister of Finance said last Friday. The energy bill is a very important part of that. Then we will also see whether more needs to be done in the concession, but I would also like to say that I want to do so as specifically as possible. Because I think there are plenty of people in this house who didn't really need that €400 compensation last autumn. At the same time, there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who are not helped by €400 because they live in a "dwelling house," as Mrs Leijten said very strikingly, or because they live in a house the landlord doesn't yet have any plans to tackle. I would therefore also like to look with my colleagues in Social Affairs and Housing at how we can help with more targeted measures precisely those groups most affected by this high energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	There is another follow-up question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thanks to the Minister. It sounds very different from what I heard the Minister of Finance say. She wasn't talking about a lot of compensation. So do I understand that the people who really can't afford it are totally helped to pay the energy bill and that low incomes are fully compensated? As far as high incomes are concerned, I fully agree with the Minister. It's annoying for them, too, but they really don't need that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	I cannot make promises about whether there will be more, higher or full compensation, because for that we do not have the overall picture yet. It'll come in the next few weeks. This will be taken into account by the government in the spring decision-making process when it comes to total purchasing power. The Minister of Finance also said last Friday that we will then make the total weighing up as a cabinet. All I'm adding here is that it has all the attention from my responsibility as Energy Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs. Leijten. This is a part that comes back to the energy bill in more detail, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Sure, Mr. Chairman, but I suggest I do that block completely now. Then we're done. Then we can get on with the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	Excellent. Mrs. Leijten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	I would ask the Minister to contact the energy companies and arrange two things. One. People who are now in payment difficulties are not being closed down and do not get the huge debt witchcraft that other people do when they have late payments. Something has to be arranged for that. Two. We're gonna see if we can bet their profits on reducing exactly those contributions from people who can't afford it. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Leijten and Mrs Kröger had also asked in their first term about the possibilities for overprofits to be made available to vulnerable households. We just got in touch with Treasury. The cabinet is prepared to find out what the possibilities are for this, because taxing excess profits and using them for households seems very complicated at first glance. I understand the thought behind it. We also had the same kind of discussions in the corona crisis. Can you recover part of the corona aid from a solidarity levy? That proved very difficult at the time, but we are just going to look at it again. I would like to assure the Chamber that I will inform your Chamber by letter together with the Minister of Finance in the spring so that we can take this into account in the wider discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. Enough? There is still a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's really good to hear. Then there are the people who are now in payment difficulties. People try to save, sometimes by not turning on the stove or not showering and so on. But they also come into payment problems. We all know what these companies do. They send the bailiff out, sell debts and then you really don't have a chance in the Netherlands once you're in trouble. It would be very nice if people who are now in trouble because of the increased energy bills were not given that treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr President, if I may, I would like to zoom out a little bit, because I actually want to talk to the energy companies on several issues. Mrs Kröger asked about, among other things, the regulation of cowboys and outliers. Better consumer protection has also been raised by a number of parties. The last time I spoke to Mrs Leijten in a committee debate, I was really shocked by how many Dutch people have flexible contracts and tariffs on the energy market. I had no idea until recently. For a long time the energy price was of course super low, so many people didn't suffer from it. Or people have expired their permanent contract and have forgotten to conclude a new permanent contract. So I want to do a few things. I want to better inform consumers about how contracts work and about the advantages and disadvantages of flexible contracts. I would also like to see how we can ensure that when contracts expire, consumers are better informed about the scope of action they have. On this subject, I wanted to have a conversation with the energy companies anyway. In that discussion I will take Mrs Leijten's suggestion to draw attention to the acute emergency that families may face because of these high energy bills. The worst thing, I think, is that you get a huge domino effect and people just get into more and more trouble. Mr President, perhaps I can answer a few questions about the energy bills now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u19	I see Mr Bontenball. He wants to ask another question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u20	This is a follow-up question to Mr Leijten's question. Parties such as the Nibud have often advised consumers to switch. The Consumers' Association conducts auctions where this is also requested. So it's not just this. The ACM itself indicated in the technical briefing that they were shocked by it. Also the ACM was part of this game, which have also strongly stimulated switching, and also the Nibud, the Consumer Union and so on, so I think you should take a broader look at that as well. The second is that, of course, we had the same discussion in November. Then, as a coalition, as well as other parties, we looked at how we can compensate for this. Then there came the amount of the 10 billion. And that already felt uncomfortable, because it was very unfocused. We haven't managed to make anything more focused yet. You, the Ministry of EZK, then, I believe, set up an interdepartmental team to look at those energy prices. My question is, does that team still exist? And aren't you also a little shocked that within the Ministry there may be a lot of attention for sustainability, but perhaps too little for things like short-term and longer-term affordability, and things like security of supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u21	The President is shocked, but we also like to hear from the Minister if he is shocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u22	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is true what Mr Bontenbal says, that we work together with Finance, Social Affairs and Housing from EZK, precisely to look at the level of the energy bill, but also at what you can do to prevent us from being confronted with this every winter. As I said, we have done so for the short term for total purchasing power development. There, full compensation will not be possible for everyone, but we will see if more can be done on the basis of the new figures on purchasing power development that will come in the coming month. The CPB will present those figures at the beginning of March, which we will include. And I fully agree with my fellow ministers of SZW and VRO that we want to get to work, so see how you can help people in the short term to take isolation measures that really have a direct impact on that energy bill. Fortunately, many Dutch people are already working on this themselves; four out of five homeowners can also pay it, orient themselves on solar panels and insulation, have actually started doing so. At the same time, we see that one in five private homeowners cannot afford this. Then, I think, Mr Stoffer's question comes around the corner: can we not make those isolation subsidies that are in the ISDE easier to access? I think it was Mr Stoffer who suggested that. But I also think there is a lot of low-hanging fruit, from radiator foil to housing corporations really to get started with that label F- and G-houses instead of making label C-houses a little bit better - although that has to be done. But how do you prioritize it in such a way that you start with those walk-through homes that people with a small wallet live in? That's what we're looking at with those four departments. We will come up with this soon, when we present the Integrated Energy and Climate Plan in May. Then we have specific attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u23	A question from Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking for a while. The €1,300 that a family or household has lost more for energy on average, of course there is 21% on it anyway. That's the money you pay the energy supplier, and then they pass it on to the taxes, and that ends up somewhere. Does the Minister have a clear idea of how much more tax revenue will come from simply increasing prices on energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u25	My answer to that specific question is now: no, I do not have that at the moment. I don't know if we could figure that out at some point, but I'm just gonna check it out. I do think it is important to realise that those figures, which came back last week or two weeks, about that €1,200 are the average price increase if you concluded a new annual contract in January of this year compared to January of last year. So it's not that this price increase applies to everyone in the Netherlands; that's really when you signed a new annual contract in January. But some of you also pointed out that it's an average rise, so there are outliers up and down. And in the coming months, too, many people will have to sign a new contract, which will also face price increases. So we're constantly looking at how that market is developing. And your question as to whether we can calculate it in this way: I have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u26	A follow-up question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u27	Maybe in second term the Minister can... It may also be later, but I am very curious how much extra tax comes in due to the projected increase for 2022. How much is that? You could also suggest using some of that money for the most vulnerable or perhaps giving it back to the citizen. Because it wasn't supposed to come back. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u28	I think it was the Van Dijk motion that asked me to regularly inform the Chamber of developments in energy bills. I can imagine taking this question with me in another letter. There's gonna be a letter this week, too. I'm not gonna make it in that anymore, but that's gonna be in the next periodic letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u29	A question from Mr Grinwis. We could also consider giving the Minister the opportunity to deal with the energy bill first, but that is a suggestion. That may prevent questions, but nevertheless there is room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u30	Just to be sure, because I don't know if this question will be answered automatically in a moment. That is not the case. It is very good that the Minister is committed to fighting that isolation program quickly for each other, so that low-income residents in the worst-labelled homes can be the first to benefit from a well-insulated and comfortable home. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to turn the screws on the landlords and to set real standards. My appeal to the Minister is to include this as soon as possible, and also to increase the incentive on the other hand, by agreeing, for example, in those performance agreements with the housing corporations that they should not make rent increases, as long as they have not isolated and preserved those label G, F, and E homes, in order to reverse it, and have not raised them to an acceptable label. Is the Minister willing to take that with him when he's gonna work this out with his colleague De Jonge?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u31	When drawing up programmes by policy area, including housing and built environment, we must always look at a good combination of standards, subsidies, pricing and so on. So I'm just taking these suggestions into my conversations with colleague Hugo de Jonge: how can we encourage corporations and perhaps normalize them to do the right things quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you. A question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u33	I welcome the Minister's commitment to our question about such a tax on the improper profits that are now made by high oil and gas prices. Last year, I believe, Shell made a profit of EUR 19 billion and invests little in renewable energy. However, these high prices are passed on to consumer prices. My question to the Minister is actually very specific. In England and Spain the windfall taxes are now being looked at very seriously. Does he want to map that? Does he want to come up with a very concrete proposal on how to deal with this? Then we, as a Chamber, can react quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u34	I just promised to see what's possible with the Minister of Finance. Then it always makes sense to include international examples, so we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you. The Minister continues the reply. Then the energy bill heading is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u36	Correct. I'm trying to finish that quick, because we've dealt with most of that now. I believe that a number of Members of Parliament have quite rightly raised the question of how to prevent us from being so dependent on the whims of the energy market and on countries from which we import energy in the coming years. For me, this crisis is an additional underlining of the importance of speeding up the sustainability of the Netherlands and Europe in our energy supply. This requires a more diverse range of countries where we get our energy from. That was an interesting debate between Mr Erkens and Mr Azarkan. As far as hydrogen is concerned, among other things, we are looking at how, with a number of countries that really have a lot of potential to produce hydrogen at very low rates, we can make agreements to ensure that that green hydrogen is also coming this way. With the European Union and a number of countries in North-West Europe, I am working intensively on strategic energy supplies, including how we can make that energy market work as well as possible in the coming years. Then Mr Eerdmans asked me whether it is true that the costs of climate policy are always paid by citizens or SMEs. The fair story is of course: The Netherlands is committed to preventing global warming to one and a half degrees. There's a price on that. At the same time, the EUR 35 billion climate fund that I have at my disposal is an enormous amount of money that we have to deal with very carefully. I also trust that the Chamber will closely monitor me for every euro from that climate fund we spend. At the same time, we are trying to save the planet with a fund that is about a quarter of the annual budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. So in that sense it is important to indicate its proportions. Over the next few years, we will try to help people and companies as much as possible to experience this sustainability in a way that ultimately also reduces their costs with a better isolated home or with a different form of production. We are also looking at how we can shape taxes so that pollution is more taxed so that those cleaner alternatives can also be more affordable. Hence the shift in the energy tax and hence the higher CO tax. The current high ETS price, the European CO price, is also a huge incentive for companies to make faster sustainability. So in the long term, it must also be affordable and manageable for everyone. Mrs Kröger asked me whether it makes sense to move the energy saving obligation for industry to seven years. My predecessor, Secretary of State Yeşilgöz, has researched this earlier. This showed that the payback period of seven years instead of five years had a very limited effect. So we choose to do more with the extra resources we have allocated, so that more companies can be monitored for this energy saving obligation and can also be advised on what they can do. Often there is a payback period of three years or less. For a lot of companies, it would be really very beneficial if they used this duty, but often companies don't know where to start. So we'd better support them in that. Mr Grinwis asked how we could also increase local ownership of energy cooperatives. Very much so. With regard to local ownership of wind and sun on land, the starting point is at least 50%. The Climate Agreement has also agreed on this and fortunately there are also more and more good examples of how this will work out in practice. The subsidy scheme Cooperative energy generation also promotes this and additional funds have been made available for this in the years to come. The Minister for Housing will shortly inform the Chamber of the further development of this local approach, including in terms of energy poverty, in order to use it as effectively as possible. Finally, I would like to stress once again that this cabinet has a real eye for rising energy costs in the short term and that we will take this with us in the Spring paper to ensure that the purchasing power of as many Dutch people as possible is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you. That was the rounding-up of the power bill block. First of all, I give Mrs Van der Plas the opportunity to question the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u38	On the energy bill: there are quite a lot of farmers who fill their roofs with solar panels because they also want to take responsibility for the energy transition. Because of the power grid that the power can't handle, you get a very strange situation, namely that they actually get a fine if they've generated too much power that they can't deliver back to the grid. That is what the energy companies say: they have to pay for it themselves. So the farmers do what they are asked to do and maybe even more than that and then they get that fine. For farmers, this could amount to perhaps one tonne to several tonnes over a period of several years. My question to the Minister is: how can we make it easier for energy companies to invest in the capacity of the grid? I am thinking, for example, of the solution that solar parks will no longer be built on agricultural land for the time being and that roofs will be given priority; perhaps the Minister will agree with that. After all, these megazon parks also require a lot of the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you for this question. I come in a few weeks from now with a comprehensive letter on sunshine, in which I work out a number of agreements in the coalition agreement, but also try to resolve these kinds of bottlenecks. I very much agree with Mrs Van der Plas that sunshine in this energy mix will be crucial in the coming years, but that we should also ensure that we raise sunshine as much as possible in the places where that is wise. Sun on the roof is really the starting point. Stables are a wonderful example of where there is a lot of potential, but there are also huge sheds in this country with flat roofs on which there are no solar panels and data centres where sun on roof is not always standard. In my own Nijmegen there is also a huge new building area, where I sometimes see one or two panels on a new building house. I think of that: what a shame that we did not immediately fill the whole roof here to provide the people who live in that house with clean, self-created energy. This will soon be explained in more detail in that letter. In addition, whatever Mrs Van der Plas says, one of the biggest issues is grid capacity. We see two reasons why the net is now completely full. More energy is being offered and there is simply a greater demand for energy, hence the importance of energy saving. I am looking with the network operators at how we can help them with their capital so that they can continue to make these big investments in the coming years. I'm gonna take municipalities and provinces to see how we can better prioritise in projects, so that we don't overload that just a little bit further. And I will soon come up with a legislative amendment to the netting scheme, where we will look closely at moments when these big solar parks deliver to the grid, how we can use storage better and how we can bring more flexibility into the grid. This is a somewhat more comprehensive answer, Mr President, but Mrs van der Plas also raises a complex issue that we must resolve properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u40	A follow-up question, isn't it, Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u41	Sure. My follow-up question is as follows. Perhaps this is not just about farmers, but there are other companies that face the same problem. They fulfil their social duty. They sympathize with the energy transition and take responsibility. Then they actually get punishment from the energy supplier. They are fined or have to compensate for the damage they cause to the power grid. Is it possible, in some way, for those companies to pay for the damage? They do something the government asks them to do, and then they get punished. I find that a bit bizarre, especially in view of all the other high bills that entrepreneurs have had in recent years. Does the Minister want to look at an opportunity so that those people can somehow get compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u42	I have to admit that I do not know these concrete examples with such amounts. I would therefore like to ask Mrs van der Plas whether she can append it to me, e-mail it or whatever. Then I'm just gonna look at it, because we want to stimulate this kind of local energy generation as much as possible. You want to "punished" as little as possible, as Mrs van der Plas says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u43	I think it would be good to return to this in one of the letters that are heading towards the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u44	That's a good suggestion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Bontenbal. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u46	Returning to the energy taxes. The Netherlands, of course, has a relatively high environmental tax burden, especially for households. That was justified a year ago in itself, but now we have much higher energy prices, which are also expected to last for a while. We have applied a slide from EB for electricity to EB for gas. Are you also prepared to look again at the heights of these energy taxes in the coming period? Because those prices are not expected to return to the old level of a year ago within a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u47	We constantly look at the development of energy prices, including on the international market, so that we can estimate what it means for Dutch households and companies. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that we would move some buttons on energy taxes so that the use of electricity would be cheaper and thus make the building environment and business more sustainable. We also stop with a number of advantages for large gas consumers. I think Mrs Leijten referred to that. In my view, this is also fairer in the light of the discussion about Groningen and the burden-sharing between households and business. With the Secretary of State for Finance, I intend to arrange all fiscal greenings from the coalition agreement in the upcoming Tax Plan. I'll see how we can do it wisely with him. So you get all the tax greenings in September with the Tax Plan, so you can judge it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u48	To conclude this perhaps a little general block of the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u49	No, this was the power bill block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u50	It fits very well with that. It concerns the statements made by the Minister in the NRC, which we discussed, about the freezing of the feasibility and affordability of the climate transition. I have asked a number of questions about feasibility. I hope to get an answer to that. What is the point of reducing CO emissions, for example, if you do so in the Netherlands? The second is, of course, that affordability. Then it's a lot about the energy bill. You just said yourself that it should be manageable and affordable. At least that's what I heard. So the word came back. I would like to conclude that the affordability of this transition for many people in the Netherlands is not in the refrigerator for you as Minister. In any case, I would like to make that point, apart from the mega-conclusions that we still have to make to the costs. But I understand that you will come back to what you said in the NRC.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u51	This is a very nice little bridge to my next block. That is climate policy, so thank you for this question. I personally see combating climate change and ensuring that we, as the Netherlands, take on our responsibilities as the challenge of our political generation, and certainly of my generation, in terms of age. We want to pass that planet on liveable and just live in a fine and clean land, with a strong, green economy. In recent years, I have often seen the slogan "feasible and affordable" used as an excuse not to have to do things, which we cannot afford, given the pace of climate change now. Is it feasible? Yes, the technique is available. It's feasible. It is possible to take our responsibility in slowing down global warming. Is it affordable? I found that often found out: we do not tackle the polluters or the air carrier sector and so on, because it is easier if we do not have to take that kind of difficult decisions now. What I tried to convey in the NRC interview is that I actually find another slogan more appropriate: The Netherlands is going for green and we have to do that, but it also gives us a lot in prosperity and economic strength. And: Everyone has to be able to come with us. That's what's in front of me is that if we look at affordability, whatever I'm gonna do, I want to be more attentive to the people who get the most hit. In the discussion about the energy bill, this means: how do you help the people who really can't afford it? That is better than meeting everyone, including the people who can afford it themselves. And how do we ensure, in terms of affordability, that companies also pay for their pollution, so that it can also be explained that we also subsidise them if they are greening? I have tried to put that balance into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u52	That's a more nuanced story than, "I don't want to hear the word anymore." We read that in the NRC. I think that leads to satisfaction from the VVD here behind me. But you are now saying in a sentence about the feasibility: "The technique is there, so we can adjust that temperature." How can we, as the Netherlands, adjust the world temperature if we are 0.5% of the problem of CO emissions? There's just no way to do that. I would also like to ask you that question. You can see it as a symbol. I also think it's symbolic politics. It's a point on the horizon. But I'm sorry, if the rest of the world just continues and India and everyone else says that they only pay if others do, and if they say within Europe that the only way to participate is if the richer countries are going to help, then it's not affordable, but it's not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u53	I don't have the NRC piece on hand right now. I don't know if I said in there, "I don't ever want to hear it again." I have tried to say in particular: you are not going to hear it from me all the time. That's the nuance in there. The Netherlands is going for green and we're making sure everyone can come with us. Mr Eerdmans has rightly drawn attention to the fact that a number of others have also done so in this debate on the international dimension of climate policy. Not only the Dutch signature is under the Paris Agreement, but that of almost every country on earth. So we will also have to appeal to other countries to do what they have to do. At European level, we do so with Fit for 55 and the European Green Deal, i.e. with a common European climate policy. But we also work with countries outside Europe. We also appeal to them what they should do. You can see it going fast now. This is also the case in countries such as India and China, where people live in poor health because of air pollution from coal plants, and you name it. In those countries too, there is a lot of pressure to do more. That is also necessary, because these countries are very much responsible for total CO emissions. We gotta get it down. I personally see an opportunity and a role for the Netherlands to use our knowledge and expertise and the power of our business in other places in the world.................................................................................................................................................... This can be done both in the area of CO reduction and in the area of climate adaptation. We in the Netherlands are just very good at that. This cabinet wants to be a frontrunner in Europe, because we want to ensure that Dutch business and knowledge are so good, that we can earn our living here, but that we can also use them abroad as the economic strength of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u54	This issue will undoubtedly be discussed again in the coming years, I suspect. There is a question from Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u55	Yes, chairman, a question from the VVD after the two questions of the VVD-light. Well, I guess I'd better go set it up now. We just talked about the affordability of isolation. The Minister indicated, in my view, that insulation for 80% of households is financially viable, at least sort of. That came from an investigation. Of course, it is also a problem that people often do not see the forest through the trees and do not know what they can do best. From the municipalities and the government there are arrangements. There are a lot of companies. Can the Minister promise that he will pay a great deal of attention to the relief of those people and will help to decide what is the best measure, so that we can use those scarce hands in the sector best?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u56	I kept my own house a few years ago. I found it rather complicated to find out what was the best solution for my home, where I could apply for subsidies and what a good contractor was to turn on. I liked doing that, but I can also imagine that many people don't like it so much, don't have time for it and want to be helped as easily as possible. Among other things, Environment Central and on websites of the government, you can already find very good information, but the simpler, the better. In developing the approach to the built environment, I am looking with the Minister of Housing at how we can do that. We are looking at how we can offer as many packages as possible with information, so that grants can be easily requested. It is actually going to be a choice package, with which everyone can get to work, including those who like it less or have less time for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u57	Clear. There is another question from Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u58	Minister Jetten has just answered questions about the international outlook we should have as the Netherlands. In fact, in the document under discussion today, I miss the fact that we not only have a domestic and a European responsibility, but that it actually goes farther. Is that right? I'm just curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u59	I had a further question from Mrs Simons in my folder, but I can answer that right now. The Netherlands, of course, has been lagging behind in climate policy for a very long time. The previous cabinet has already done a great deal. Over the past few years, we have really focused on the so-called tonne-hunt: how are we, as the Netherlands, making a contribution to reducing emissions and improving our sustainable energy production? Now we're on the verge of broadening the scope. We have the so-called Scope 2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions. This concerns emissions caused, for example, by a company or a chain, by the purchase of raw materials and everything associated with them, not only in the Netherlands, but also in other places in the world. We are going to think about how we can better integrate this into our Dutch approach. Together with the Minister for BuHa-OS and the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, I will later present a separate letter on international climate policy: how can we focus our trade and development cooperation policies more on supporting other countries in mitigation and adaptation? I will also come soon with a letter, together with the Secretary of State of BZK, about our approach to the Caribbean Netherlands. I see a huge opportunity to let the BES islands be a kind of showcase for the rest of the world for how to make the move to climate neutral even in small islands. If, for example, we can show this on Bonaire, Saba and Statia, then we can also help a lot of vulnerable island states. So I promise you will hear more from me about our international role in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u60	I don't have a question, but I just want to say something. I am very pleased with this answer. I hope we can read a little more about that in the next letter. That was my next question, Mr President, that the Minister is prepared to look at the BES islands. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment: this interruption may have been premature, but I am unfortunately not used to the fact that directors actually answer questions raised during a contribution, so I would also like to congratulate the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u61	Look, they're back inside. Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Teunissen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u62	My question is supplementary to that of Mrs Simons. It is very good that attention is paid to the international aspect. The minister says he's still coming up with a letter about that. If we look at it per capita, the Netherlands is the main deforester of Europe. In addition, free trade agreements have a major role to play. Can the Minister also comment on our free trade policy and its impact on climate policy in the letter that is still to come? Isn't that contrary to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u63	If the Foreign Trade Minister and I come up with a letter on international climate policy, then international trade must be part of that. Our commitment is to make the Paris Climate Agreement the starting point for trade agreements. In the previous cabinet, the then Minister and her French colleague also proposed an effort from Europe to make climate policy much more part of the trade agreements. But we can explain in that letter a little more detail how we see it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u64	A follow-up question from Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u65	I just have one comment. I am very pleased that this is also addressed in the letter. We can see that, despite these lasting agreements, deforestation is still taking place, precisely because of the free trade agreements. So I'm glad you're paying attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u66	The Minister may respond, but it wasn't a question. If the Minister considers this to be sufficient, he will continue his response on the climate fund and climate policy issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u67	Everything has come along, so I will try to do so as briefly and forcefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u68	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u69	The coalition agreement agreed to strengthen the Climate Act and move towards at least 55% reduction by 2030 and climate-neutral by 2050. The tightening of that climate law will come to your Chamber this spring. It has also been agreed that policies should focus as much as possible on 60% reduction. A number of Members of Parliament have asked: how do the 55% and 60% relate to each other? By making a 60% policy, we hope with greater certainty to deliver at least 55% by 2030. My Climate and Energy programme, which I put together with colleagues in the cabinet, will be presented to the Planning Office for the Environment in May. They will pass that on independently. During the climate and energy exploration in the autumn we get the opinion of the planning agency back. I don't think that's gonna be perfect in one go. That's exactly what I'm saying here. The planning agency will advise us on the following points. Is this bound to the maximum achievable, as they said at the first reflection? In which sectors is the cabinet a little too optimistic about achieving these goals? In which sectors is there potentially much more CO reduction possible? We're gonna take those kind of reflections from the PBL. This also applies to the conclusion of the negotiations on European climate policy, Fit for 55. Once that is done, we will re-examine the impact of European climate policy on the Dutch situation, both in terms of CO reduction and burden-sharing. This is how we will have to adjust climate policy every time. I actually have two roles in the cabinet: I am a coordinating Minister for Climate and Minister for Energy. As a coordinating minister, I really see it as my job to ensure that the policy always adds up to that 60% and that I urge colleagues who have a part in their portfolio to come up with good plans that actually lead to CO reduction. I also see it as my job to help them if things go too slowly. The same applies to fellow governments. I can also support them from the climate fund to take their role in energy generation and heat transition. And if I have to, I'm gonna stand up. That is what I mean by: there is just one person in the cabinet, that is my job to keep colleagues sharp when things are too slow, if it is too little or if the burden-sharing becomes unfair at some point. In addition, I am the Minister for Energy. This is a huge task when it comes to grid capacity, sufficient energy generation and a good mix between sun, wind, nuclear energy, geothermal energy and other sources. I must therefore also make a major contribution to achieving these 60% targets and at least 55% of the targets laid down in the Climate Act. Mr Bontenbal asked about the indicative distribution of the CO reduction. There is a table in the main letter which I have, quite frankly, taken over one-on-one from the negotiators in the climate table. But I just heard him, too. I'm not gonna change anything about it now. So we're going to shape the climate and energy programme of May along that indicative distribution and then see how the PBL reflects on it in the autumn. I do see opportunities and opportunities to achieve a smarter and optimal distribution between sectors. There are a number of sectors where potential is more possible, but they may also need other forms of support from the climate fund or through standardisation. I'll keep looking at that with an open eye, because you just want to have the most sensible distribution of that reduction statement. What is fundamentally different from the previous cabinet, Mrs Kröger asked me? As I said just now, I think that the previous cabinet has really improved on climate policy. I call it the Urgenda target that, although with the heels over the ditch, has been taken. Now we are really taking a big step with the tightening up of the climate law, the introduction of the climate fund and a good mix of standards, pricing, incentives and subsidies. Mr Boucke asked how I would regularly update the Chamber on the state of play of the measures. I actually want to do that in two ways. I would like to update the legislative overview that I have given you twice a year, so that you know how it is going, what legislation is going to be left behind, why it is going to be slow and what the Minister is doing to make that happen. And I want to give you an overview of the CO-reducing measures. I would like to state what is going on with the development and implementation and whether it is indeed achieving the expected CO profit. In my opinion, Mr Boucke wanted to receive the latter every quarter. That is almost impossible to do with the calculation models that we need to use for this purpose. But I'm gonna see how we can do that regularly. I think that twice a year is more realistic than every quarter. But in the Climate and Energy programme that will appear in May, I will explain in more detail how I can give you some kind of real-time insight with a dashboard. There is 100 billion for businesses and the citizens get nothing, Mr Kops said. That's not true. First of all, the industry pays for a very large part of its own sustainability by having to invest in business operations, by the CO price we charge in Europe, by having a minimum CO price in the Netherlands and by adjusting energy taxes. Secondly, part of the climate fund does indeed benefit other sectors, such as greenhouse horticulture, households and is used to support sustainability in the mobility sector. I have already said it in my introduction, but it is also in this block of replies. Go back from 2050, so from the climate-neutral society that we want to reach by 2050. What does the energy system look like? What does the industry look like? What do our cities look like with room for climate adaptation? We need to sketch that view with each other, and in the meantime we need to get to work to achieve it. We can't do that with the perfect plan, so we'll have to learn and adjust over time. Mrs Simons asked me if I have an emergency plan to be climate neutral in five to eight years' time. The honest answer is I don't have that emergency plan. If we want to fight it for each other in five to eight years, the intervention in society is going to be very strong. My reaction would be that we should also retain our support. I see, however, in Mrs Simons' question, above all, that we should really stop using fine words and plans on paper, but that we should put our hands on them and take action. In addition, we take responsibility in the Netherlands, but also see how we can help internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u70	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u71	I suggest that the Minister finish answering this question first. There are a few others waiting, but then it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u72	It's about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u73	I understand that, but the same goes for others who are waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u74	Mr Stoffer asked me, 'I wanted to say to Mr Stoffer; sometimes I have to get used to being on this side of the motion for a resolution Stoffer/Eerdmans on how Fit for 55 has an impact on the built environment in the Netherlands. Before the turn of the year, the Chamber received a BNC-fiche about the Dutch commitment to the built environment. We look very critically at the task for the Netherlands and at the flexibility to shape the approach for the built environment to the Dutch situation. What we are doing more than the previous coalition agreement is that, in addition to the CO targets, we are actually looking at the goal of energy saving. All saved energy that you don't have to generate and that doesn't have to go through the power grid is a huge profit. Mrs Teunissen has given a detailed account of this in her contribution. We look very critically at the built environment and industry, agriculture and mobility. You now think you need a certain amount of energy from the current situation in 10, 20 or 30 years, but if we shape it differently, it can also be done with less energy. That is the most sensible and cost-effective approach in this respect. Mr Azarkan asked whether it was true that this cabinet period was already being spent 6 billion from the climate fund. It contains an indicative series, which indeed adds up to 6 billion to 2025. I will come later, together with the Minister of Finance, with an institution law for the Climate Fund, so that the Chamber can exercise maximum control over the use of funds. I will have to allocate some of the money from the climate fund before that institution law enters into force. This is for example for the rapid scaling up of renewable energy, the construction of infrastructure and supporting the sustainability of the built environment. For this, we will always submit explicit decisions to the Chamber, so that the Chamber can judge them. I'll see what questions I haven't answered. I manage the climate fund together with the Minister of Finance. For the Climate and Energy programme, the responsible colleagues will present plans in May to meet the climate targets in the built environment or in agriculture. They will then say to me and to the Minister of Finance: in addition to this set of standards, legislation and so on, I would also very much like to have a part of the climate fund. Each time we will critically assess whether this is indeed a cost-effective use of the money. I say this to Mr Van Haga, to Mrs Van der Plas and others, who explicitly asked for it. We are also looking at how we can make a smart mix between the nitrogen fund, the climate fund, but also existing schemes, such as the SDE, Invest-NL and the National Growth Fund. Each time we have to look very critically at what kind of money we already have is the best way to finance a certain part of the transition. We are looking at whether the climate measures also produce nitrogen gains and vice versa. Mr Van Haga asked about cradle-to-cradle. An important starting point to take that into account everywhere. I am also talking about circularity and the closing of commodity chains with the Secretary of State of IenW to see how we can make that the common thread of our climate approach. I say to Mrs van der Plas that agriculture can make use of both the climate fund and the nitrogen fund. I am looking with the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen to see how we can best use it from the area-based approach she proposes for the nitrogen declaration. And with the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries I am talking about how we can make an integral package for greenhouse horticulture, in which we actually take everything well with us for greenhouse horticulture at once. But we are also looking at other things, such as the whole transition to more vegetable food and a less large impact on our agricultural sector on the CO footprint. Maybe finally in this block some questions about the generation test and how we learn from other challenges. I would like to say to Mr Grinwis that I am indeed looking at the approach of Space for the river and the approach of the delta Commissioner, because we are certainly going to have a very large renovation of the Netherlands in the coming years from the energy transition and the nitrogen declaration. How do you do that in a smart way, with an eye for the environment? How do you involve residents in the approach in such an area? For that, we can take much with us from the Delta approach. The generation test, the climate test, was asked by several people. I'll work it out. I am still thinking about this myself, because I want to take the broad prosperity into account. Then we have both the generations and the impact internationally at once. There are already a lot of other tests, such as an SME test, a border test and you name it all. But can we take an integral test where you look at that broad prosperity impact? There will be an independent advisory board. I now see two gentlemen, Mr Eerdmans and Mr Bontenbal, looking at me with interest. We have the Planning Office for the Environment. This is our independent mathematician, who regularly provides us with figures. We have the Council of State as a kind of climate authority, which advises us on the laws and regulations in the climate domain and also advises us on the relationship between the government and the co-governments. I am thinking about how this Scientific Advisory Council can add something to that in the triangle PBL, Council of State and Scientific Advisory Council. I prefer to have really smart heads, both from pure technology, but also from behavioural changes and the impact on society. They must be scientists who really advise me completely independently on climate policy in the medium term. Are we missing things? Can it be smarter? Is there any other way? This spring I come up with a first development of that scientific advisory board. Then I invite the Chamber to reflect extensively on that, so that I can take that into account in the final proposal. And then really, finally, in this block. Mr Stoffer, Mr Eerdmans, Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, several people asked me: how do we involve all the Dutch in climate policy? And how do we look at people who are excited? There is, of course, a very small group that thinks climate policy is nonsense and there is a small group that thinks that we are far from going fast enough. But most of the Dutch realize that climate change is there, so we have to do something to pass our planet on to future generations, but I would like to be helped in how I can do my part. That's the first thing. Secondly, I also believe that a lot of Dutch people can help us shape the policy. TNO, TU Delft and others have written analyses about this before. I am now having a review of how we can better involve Dutch people in climate policy. I have already promised that we will also consider, for example, how climate councils could possibly play a role in this, so that we really can involve people in the design of our Climate and Energy programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you for this cube. That raises a number of questions. Mr Bontenbal, Mrs Teunissen, Mrs Simons, Mrs Leijten, Mrs Kröger, Mrs Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans. That's the list I wrote down. May I invite you to put the questions to the fore and to refrain from introductory remarks? Then we'll have a decent second term, I hope. Mr. Bontenbal, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u76	There are five sectors. One of them is the energy sector. The estimate of that is pretty diffuse. That's that 8 megatons to 21 megatons. The PBL does not dare to name a point value anymore because there is so much uncertainty. This makes it difficult to always set up climate policy there, because, for example, we are partly dependent on what we do abroad. So if Germany closes nuclear power stations, we may have to produce more, resulting in emissions in the Netherlands. Can we not come up with a correction mechanism for this, taking into account that national account of what we are releasing here? And that 8 megatons to 21 megatons is pretty big. Can't we cut that back that way, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u77	The minister's gonna answer compactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u78	Yes. I'm just thinking if I really understand the question. The honest answer is: no, I don't really understand the question. I hope you will allow a brief explanation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u79	For example, we do not correct how much we produce for other countries. The easiest climate policy would be, of course, if we were simply to stop electricity production and companies at all. Then we'll be at zero very quickly and then we'll think we've done well ourselves. But in fact, for the electricity sector in particular, you are looking for a mechanism for imports and exports, in this case of electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u80	I understand the question better now. We are stuck here with international agreements on how we calculate CO emissions per country. Anyway, I don't think it's wrong to do this, especially if we try to think more and more about the global impact of climate policy and reduction. You can see that this is also happening in the UN context. It is therefore about measures that you are taking here and which can lead to CO reductions elsewhere. So I think we should just take this into account. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise that at the moment I am spending quite a lot of my time with neighbouring countries Belgium, Germany and France, because I want to increase this climate policy as much as possible together. We have to stop ourselves from doing counterproductive things. We should not stop building new energy infrastructure at the border, for example, but we should just cross the border for a few kilometres, so that we can come up with much smarter solutions. This also applies to hydrogen, to CO storage, to increased network capacity. In all these areas, I would like to do it together with the neighbouring countries as much as possible, so that hopefully these kinds of issues will also become less and less serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u81	Thank you. Mrs Teunissen asks her third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u82	I have a question about the climate test and the generation test. The Minister seemed to approach it as an integral test; that is at least how I understood it. However, I would argue that these two tests should be considered separate. The generation test is really about what our climate policy will have to do in the coming decades. We need to come up with a good framework for this, and of course we need to take the side effects with us. It must be good for climate, but also for biodiversity and for viability. And that broad prosperity can then offer a nice outcome. So my question is: when is the Minister coming up with a more concrete effect? And the second part is then the climate test. In my view, this is really about the question: is there any policy that contradicts climate policy? Such a climate test can help. You can see that in Germany, for example. That's where the climate test has already been introduced. Each bill will be reviewed. For me, every bill doesn't have to be looked at specifically. But look at the policy in the broad sense, at the relevant policy pieces of the different departments. Do a climate test over there. I wonder how the Minister sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u83	I am actually pleased with the last part of Mrs Teunissen's question, because that is exactly my quest. How do you avoid being endlessly busy with all kinds of keys on details when you don't see the bigger picture anymore? Hence my own search for how to look at the generational test, the climate test and the broad prosperity a little in conjunction. In the Climate and Energy programme that comes in May, I also come up with further effects. And I'll just take your suggestions with me. I will also speak to the Young Climate Movement and others shortly. They have actually made sure that this test is in the coalition agreement. I also want to understand better from them what they want to achieve from their perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u84	Minister Jetten gives his view on my request for such a "disaster scenario." And there's something I can agree with. At the same time, I note, also in the debate we are having here, that many people are not yet convinced of the need, and that we are always assuming the most favourable scenario. In my contribution I referred to the KNMI and that was actually the underlying reason for my question, so I wonder if there is any other way we can map out how we're gonna get there in ten years' time if we don't speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u85	That's a good question. The IPCC, the global club providing advice to the UN climate conferences, will soon present its latest analyses. What I think is particularly interesting there is... Global warming is now going on and we need to understand which tipping points we are achieving. What are the irreversible changes that are going on? What does warming of the permafrost mean? What does the loss of biodiversity that is already going on mean? Is that fixable? How does this type of development accelerate further global warming and the rise in sea level? In my opinion, we should always have this kind of report, but also by such a scientific advisory board, always let the mirror prevail. Are we doing enough, or should there be more, or should there be something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u86	Enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u88	I call Mrs Leijten, who is shocked and shocked and is rushing to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u89	I would like to talk about this climate fund. I recently heard former Minister of Finance Wouter Bos on the radio, the now heavily paid CEO of Invest-NL. He could not imagine that the climate fund would be accessible to companies. He said that companies can go to the banks for regular investments, and that, at the moment they don't dare, there's still Invest-NL, and that, at the moment they don't dare, you still have the Recovery Fund. So it should actually be 35 billion for the construction of public facilities: infrastructure and perhaps the development of knowledge. How does the Minister respond to that reasoning of former Finance Minister Wouter Bos?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u90	It is not that, because there is a climate fund and there is a green industrial policy, every company can walk to the government's ATM and get money from that climate fund without conditions. First of all, we are going to take generic measures to help industry become more sustainable. That is to increase the payment of polluters, to build public infrastructure for energy, for hydrogen, for CCS and for other forms that are needed. We work from these industrial clusters on an approach by area, which can also benefit companies for the sustainability of their production site. In the extreme case, for large emissions, we are also prepared to make one-on-one agreements if necessary. My fellow Minister Adriaansens is at the bar for that. If she had been here today, I think she would have answered you that it should also be reciprocal agreements, whereby the companies involved are expected to show how they reduce their climate emissions towards 2030, how they undertake socially responsible and how they invest in the Netherlands. Only then, when there is such a reciprocal package, are we prepared to think about the use of resources from the climate fund for the uneconomic summit. In doing so, we will always consider whether this uneconomic summit can also come from the SDE, whether one can go to Invest-NL or whether one can pay for it yourself. So it's not automatic that money comes from us. We will be critical of this every time, but I would like to stress here that these companies themselves must make very substantial investments for this sustainability. It really is about many, many hundreds of millions that Dutch businesses will have to take out. In the last few years, I have, quite frankly, allowed myself to be changed by the works councils of a number of large companies and the trade unions, which said: you can only be very strict on business, but we also want to maintain employment here; so try to keep these tailor-made agreements here in the Netherlands as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u91	Do you also put your last question to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u92	Sure, thank you. I will let this be the last question; I will not put you in any trouble with any other interruption, Mr President. The minister just said it shouldn't be an ATM for companies. The Minister could not have said better, because that is how it is interpreted. I do not know if the Minister is also looking at all kinds of talk programmes, but that is where Mrs Thijssen from VNO-NCW is particularly pressing, because they want to pull the money out. First, they have always ensured that 'polluter pays' did not apply, because 'climate of establishment'. No, no tax paid by large companies, because "location climate." Now it's: can we pin in the government for a minute? I would like to agree with this Minister that we are going to have to invest the adage that applies to households "you will have to invest yourself and you will earn it back." That is something that many people cannot do, and we are therefore really chasing people at high costs for companies too. So we may be able to do something about subsidising the uneconomic summit, but if you make a profit, you will pay back. If we do not, I think we cannot explain that this climate fund is indeed going to become an ATM for large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u93	First of all, if we want to meet the targets for the industrial sector by 2030, we need to move forward with the green industrial policy. They are often very large industrial complexes where it takes some time to convert them to, for example, a hydrogen production or the deployment of CCS. Those companies will have to make major investment decisions in the next few years. As I said earlier, sometimes hundreds of millions are involved. So I really understand that these companies are asking for clarity and direction over the next two years, including from us as government, so that they can prepare themselves for that. As I mentioned earlier, we're doing an integral package. Energy taxes are being adjusted. The ETS price is already high. We're adjusting the marginal CO price. There will be a minimum price in our CO levy. So we are putting these incentives right, so that companies are really encouraged to continue to be sustainable. In the second quarter, Minister Adriaansens will draw up the approach for green industrial policy and tailor-made arrangements. Then we will also indicate what the balancing framework will look like and how we will assess whether a company can claim the subsidy of a potentially uneconomic summit. You are actually suggesting that we turn that into a revolving fund, as I think it is called in bad Dutch. That is a possibility, but my position at the moment would be that industry is already going to pay its share of the climate fund through the high ETS price and the adjustments in energy taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u94	I call Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u95	I did have a question about this minister's perseverance, because of course there is a lot to do with that. 60% CO reduction is ambitious. It may not be ambitious enough yet, but it is ambitious. For this, this Minister must have the opportunity to stand up. My question is actually: what exactly was agreed on in the constituent discussion, which the Minister is talking about in his NRC interview? How does he look at the case of the letter surrounding the data centers? That's a first test case, isn't it? In doing so, the Minister for Spatial Planning is actually doing something that runs counter to the ambitions in the field of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u96	I'll start with the latter. I disagree with Mrs Kröger. The Minister for VRO is the coordinating minister for Spatial Planning. From the Empire, we're going to do more directing on that. In recent times, the Chamber has rightly been very critical of the establishment of hyperscale data centres in places where it does not fit into the landscape or where energy demand is far too strong. So I think it is wise that the Minister for VRO has now announced a temporary stop to the establishment of such large data centres, so that he can use the interval to make better policies for this. The letter identifies two locations where the establishment of these data centres is possible. That is exactly what we had already agreed in recent years, but had not complied with so well, namely that such energy-intensive companies should be put in places where the energy is actually available. The Eemshaven in Northeast Groningen is such a place where the energy lands on land and where it makes sense to have this kind of energy-intensive companies. The question we must of course also answer in the new approach of the Minister for VRO is: how many such data centres do we want in the Dutch economy at all? How much space do you offer for it? This will be further developed in the coming months. Mr. Chairman. Then about the coordinating role. That was the first part of Mrs Kröger's question. For myself, but also for the Minister for Nitrogen and the Minister for Spatial Planning, we are coordinating ministers. We don't often do that in the Netherlands. There are a number of ways in which we can get to grips with colleagues in the cabinet. We do this by making integrated programmes for the climate and nitrogen approach, and by regularly discussing them in ministerial committees, so called, in order to monitor progress, hunt down other departments and help them achieve the goals. As I said earlier, we agreed at the beginning of this cabinet that if necessary, we can really put a brake on it if it does not go well. And I must say, so far I have been particularly impressed by the enthusiasm with which the other departments are also working to make this climate policy a success. So I hope that I do not have to stand up for myself often and that we can do it mainly from the point of view of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u97	That leads to a follow-up question. I'd use the pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u98	Mr President, why not the button?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u99	Yeah, that button's working again. Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the Minister is still optimistic after a month and a half. It would have been worrying if that weren't the case, that would've saved you. But I share that optimism in part. That is why my question was: what is the analysis of what did not go well in the previous period? As far as I am concerned, these targets have not been met, precisely on the built environment, on agriculture and on mobility, because those ministers had other priorities. The question remains: what does this minister really have? For example, is he going to give a green check mark to big plans, which have a big impact on the climate? And then I'll come back to the data centers. The question of the Chamber was not where in the Netherlands these things had to come. The question was: can we cope with such a large additional energy demand? With the letter Minister De Jonge actually said: I ignore that issue. And this minister shouldn't have given his green check mark for that. Or he doesn't have a green check mark to give, but then the question is: what is his perseverance power?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u101	These questions will, of course, soon form part of the integrated policy for such data centres. We just need to think this through. We all use data in this country, so we will have to find a form in which we can also facilitate this kind of activity in this country in a responsible way, with an acceptable energy need that comes into play. I would particularly like to challenge Mrs Kröger for the presentation of the climate and energy programme in May. That is my role: bringing the policies of all these different ministers together will add up to 60%, and if that does not add up to 60%, asking for new and better plans to achieve the CO reduction. If she keeps me sharp, I'll keep my colleagues in the cabinet sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u102	The last question would you like to spend on it, too? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u103	Certainly, Mr President, because it is actually about those May plans. The Minister says: I come up with a plan for 60%. What's there now is less than 60%. So my question is first of all: is the Minister counting on the whole climate agreement, so those previous agreements, to be an integral basis? That is contrary to what Mr Bontenball of the CDA said in his first term. And secondly, what additional things is he going to offer on May 1st to make sure you get that 60%? 'Cause that's not there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u104	The PBL works with bandwidths. The bandwidth of what we have now is 48 to 62%. So you could say "that 60% is in it," but you'd rather be a little bit more comfortable in that bandwidth. What I have intended is that the Climate and Energy programme, which will come in May, is actually the connection of the Climate Agreement, thus existing agreements, together with the coalition agreement with new ambitions and agreements, but also with the work that municipalities and provinces are already working on, i.e. the Regional Energy Strategies and the heat transitions. Together, this must be an integral programme of Climate and Energy. I am not going to negotiate endlessly with the climate tables and parties in the polder about everything that is now invented in the coalition agreement; that is what we are going to do. This means that sometimes things from the current Climate Agreement need to be improved or that we are going to do something different. But the response I get from the implementation of the Climate Agreement is basically: it's really great that we're going to do it in its entirety, that we're going to have more direction and that different departments are going to have a bigger responsibility in it, so that these implementation moves can actually focus on implementing those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u105	Thank you. Mrs van der Plas has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u106	Thank you. Yes, I would like to come back to the Minister's reply on the climate fund and agriculture. I know that the climate fund does not mention agriculture, but horticulture. But horticulture is not agriculture. Agriculture, for example, is livestock farming, arable farming. So that's two different things. You've got greenhouse horticulture and you've got agriculture. That is why it is also called 'the agricultural and horticultural sector', by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u107	There is a climate statement for the whole agricultural sector, including land use, an important part of it. I am working with the Minister of LNV and the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen to see how we can make an integrated plan for the different sectors. The greenhouse horticulture requires an approach. Farming requires an approach. The livestock industry is asking for an approach. Land use requires an approach. We are looking at which part of the climate fund and which part of the nitrogen fund we are using for this. In the indicative distribution, the greenhouse horticulture sector has indeed been explicitly mentioned. From the nitrogen fund, I believe we can do a great deal to stimulate innovation, the shift to circular agriculture and to provide a perspective for farmers who want to produce good food in another way in the Netherlands. We are working with these three ministers to work out how to achieve the megaton targets for agriculture as a whole and how to use the two funds in a smart way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mrs van der Plas' last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u109	I would very much like to see very strict consideration given to what nitrogen measures are and what climate measures are. If climate action is to be taken, it must simply be taken out of the climate fund and not out of the nitrogen fund. Because the nitrogen fund, the problem of nitrogen, is actually about something quite different. It's about nature, about Natura 2000 sites. That's different from climate policy. I'm a little afraid that all of a sudden everything's getting lumped together. There is also a climate fund and a nitrogen fund for a reason. I don't think it's fair that the money that's available... Let me put it first: I'm totally against buying out farmers and everything, but well, the fund is there. I am opposed, however, to the possibility of taking measures that are actually climate action. Because there's 35 billion available for that. I think we should get a good divorce on those things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u110	Perhaps Mrs Van der Plas and I should have a cup of coffee about this one day, because I wasn't expecting this. What I do not think we should do is reason from the different policy areas and funds and then harass the farmer. Farmers in the Netherlands have also gone completely mad over the past decades with different regulations and each time another theme that is picked up from The Hague. They are now asking for an integrated approach, in which we look at climate, nitrogen, water quality, animal welfare, etc., but not every time we come up with something different. Perhaps we misunderstand each other, but I hope that this area-based approach will give us a perspective on how they can produce food in this country over the next few decades and that we can help these farmers in the government. I would argue, on the contrary, that we in the various ministries should ensure that this policy is good and that money is available and that we should not then bother the farmer with the distinction between a climate measure, a nitrogen measure and a water measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u111	This is going to be an entertaining conversation while enjoying a cup of coffee. I call Mr Van Haga. No, Mrs. Van der Plas, you can't say anything more. Yeah, in the second term again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u112	I just touched on the Minister's comment on cradle-to-cradle. I asked a question about that. I didn't mean some kind of cozy meeting about how we're gonna be circular and we're gonna agree on that. Of course we do. My question was whether the Minister could calculate for each project how much CO emissions that cradle-to-cradle occurs and how much that saves in global warming, because my experience is that a lot of people are very excited about a windmill, but then forget that this windmill needs to be produced, transported somewhere, installed, then 20 years running and then has to be decommissioned. So it needs to be recycled. If you take all that, the outcome may be very different. My question was whether the Minister could take that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u113	I can't have that calculated on a project-by-project basis. That simply cannot be done. But I am going to work with the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State to ensure that circularity simply becomes the starting point for everything we do. We were also talking about windmills in the committee debate the other day. The total footprint of the production and recycling of a windmill is already earned after nine months of running. After that, a windmill like this will produce almost free energy for years and years without a CO footprint. So it's really not that bad with windmills. They are well-deserved, even when it comes to the cradle-to-cradle approach. But it is good to let this starting point be much more the norm. Unfortunately, I cannot calculate it per project, but in the climate and energy programme of May, the Secretary of State and I will explain how we allow circularity to be the starting point as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u114	Follow-up question by Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u115	I don't know if this counts as a separate interruption. The second part of my question was how much that saves, perhaps not per project but per energy form, like all windmills, to global warming in terms of the Dutch contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u116	I think we should look at how a circular approach saves even raw material consumption, CO footprint in other places in the world and so on. I cannot allow that to be calculated as specifically as Mr Van Haga wants, but by letting it be, hopefully we will see that again in the CO reduction of our climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u117	Enough at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u118	I'm assuming this isn't two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u119	No, no, we'll count this as an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you very much, very generous. 'Cause if I don't, I'm gonna be done too. I had also asked a question about the gas infrastructure. I don't know if it's on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u121	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u122	But otherwise we'll do it right now, because it's a short question. Or are you going to answer it separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u123	Yeah, I got another block of gas in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u124	Okay, I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u125	Yeah, that's the risk. Mr Eerdmans has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u126	Mr President, this was by far the largest block. So it can go a little faster after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u127	Yes, and this green industrial policy is perhaps also partly written because of the absence of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u128	Yes, and I have just answered the most important questions about this in the debate with Mrs Leijten. So I'll just check to see if there's anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u129	Then we'll finish it first. Mr Eerdmans has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u130	In the light of time, I have an order proposal on my questions. I would have asked some factual questions about the transition. As far as I am concerned, they may go directly to the Minister through you, but I would like them to be answered in writing. After all, I do attach great importance to the precision with regard to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u131	Take off the technical questions in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u132	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u133	Then a question remains and that concerns the independent Scientific Advisory Council. My question was whether all these things will become jabble again or whether there will be a climate skeptic at the table, because this will make things sharper and perhaps better. We saw at the climate tables, for example, that there was no nuclear enthusiast. So is it Greenpeace, Natural Monuments and so on, or are we going to have a man at the table like Theo Wolters, Marcel Crok or Maarten Boudry, so people who think a bit critically about the transition? Are you going to try to get those names at the table or is it all going to be robjetten.nl again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u134	In fact, I would like to avoid deciding as a minister who's going to be on that scientific advisory board. That wouldn't be good. So I'm gonna think about this advisory board's assignment. Independently, critically, just really shoot at climate policy so that we can make it better. I'll share that assignment with the Chamber and then we'll think about what people we're gonna ask for. They certainly shouldn't be yes marbles, because then they're not going to keep us sharp and they're not going to supplement anything on all the advisory bodies we already have. With regard to the implementation of climate policy, the following points are made: We are talking to the presidents of these different tables to see if, in the new ambitions of the coalition agreement, we still have the right composition of the climate tables or if other people have to get away from them to make sure that such a table can actually do what it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u135	Thank you. Then there is an interruption by Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u136	I just wanted to come back to that 60% and how we keep track of how far we are. Thank you to the Minister for answering my question on this point. What's behind it is a certain concern. As a chamber, we want to know how far the cabinet is and we actually want some kind of real time monitoring. Now I understand that this is not possible, but a little more than six months is better than every six months. Does the Minister think that all the measures taken by the cabinet should always add up to 60%? We will have to make difficult choices. Wind on land was mentioned earlier and also biomass. Does the cabinet agree that it should always add up to 60%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u137	We are making policies with a view to that 60%, so that we can be sure to meet the standard of at least 55%. When it comes to drawing up the programme for May, but also when it comes to adjusting the policy, we will always be working to add up to that 60%, knowing that we will sometimes run into setbacks when it comes to implementing it over the next eight years. We then know for sure that we are achieving the climate goal in the Climate Act. In the May letter, I will also go into the whole governance in more detail. The Climate Act prescribes when we should offer the climate plans to the House of Representatives, so that you can judge them, but the Council of State can also give an opinion on them. I would like to make sure that Mr Eerdmans asked for this to be done not at a separate moment in the year, but in full with the summer decision-making, so that on Princess Day, in addition to all the financial documents, you also have all the climate items. I'm gonna see what's additional to that in the dashboards in between. I would also like to argue that we should bring a little peace to the climate approach and not have an emergency debate every month because a new report has been produced. I would like to argue that once a year we simply debate climate policy in a very fundamental way and adjust it where necessary, and in the meantime we will have time to complete that comprehensive legislative agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u138	Another follow-up question from Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u139	I understand that the Minister says the latter, but I think it is always good if the Chamber can debate on the basis of the right information. That's just a comment. Then one final comment on my part. As we have done in recent years, we should not do it in the years to come. Because we were always chasing the facts. That is also why the Urgenda Foundation has gone to court. We don't want that anymore. That's what I want to give the cabinet and this minister: make sure you're always up-to-date and add it up to 60%, so that the corridor to the judge doesn't have to be made anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u140	I very much agree with that. The whole legalisation of climate policy is also due to the fact that we have done too little in recent decades. This cabinet now wants to be ahead of the curve. That's what I'm saying in English; I'm just trying to think of a Dutch translation. I also prefer to have a kind of real-time dashboard where you can look at the state of implementation of climate policy all the time, but I do advocate a little peace in decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u141	That was the climate policy and the climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u143	Let us now turn to green industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u144	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I have just discussed this with Mrs Leijten. I have already been able to answer many of the questions of others. On 7 April we have a thematic debate on the sustainability of industry. Mr Micky Adriaansens, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, is primarily responsible for this, but from my role as Energy Minister, who also has to fight the energy infrastructure for the big industry, I look forward to that. For that debate on 7 April, we will receive a letter of Parliament in which we will outline how we are going to implement the agreements of the coalition agreement. This letter will deal with the additional indicative reductions for industry, how to deal with the tailor-made arrangements, when we achieve the tightening up of the CO levy and the introduction of a CO minimum price, and what is the relationship between generic support, such as the SDE, the Sustainable Energy Infrastructure Programme and the Multiannual Programme Infrastructure, Energy and Climate. The letter will also address the importance of energy saving policies, coherence with the nitrogen approach and the importance of circularity, including for industry. That is the letter before the debate on 7 April. In the second quarter there will be a letter of inquiry into green industrial policy in greater detail. I would like to emphasise briefly that we are therefore partly aiming for generic measures and tailor-made arrangements to achieve this accelerated CO reduction. The starting point for the cabinet is that companies have to meet the climate targets. We must also ensure that we have a strong Dutch business and that we have leaders in these Dutch industrial clusters, so that we can show the rest of the world that with such a green approach you can also build a strong economy, with prosperity, jobs and so on. This means that a climate obligation, as a number of people have proposed, does not add anything in our view. The various international climate agreements simply reflect on the responsibilities that governments, but also business, must take in making them more sustainable. Through the agreements we are about to make with business, we ensure that they also take their responsibility. I must also say that many of these companies are eager. They see, because of the high European CO price and high energy prices, but also because of questions from their customers, that it is also necessary for their earning model to continue to be sustainable. We are now going to provide maximum assistance from the government so that these companies can achieve this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u145	That leads to a final question from Mr Bontenbal. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u146	I'm curious to see how the Minister looks at the lawsuit that's going to run Milieudefensie. Urgenda was really focused on the Dutch state. I believe that this is where the responsibility lies to make climate policy. But the case of Milieudefensie is aimed at individual companies. That may also hinder the energy transition rather than accelerate. How's the Minister looking at these things? Does he think they'll help the climate, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u147	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mr President, may I make a point of order? I think this is where the trias politician gets put aside. Since when are we going to ask a minister about lawsuits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u149	Mrs Kröger, I do not think it is necessary to make a point of order. I think the trias politician is among the Minister's ears, too. He'll be able to respond to cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u150	I wasn't going to judge any legal action or lawsuit that parties take. Those parties are free to do so. My ambition is that in a number of years we will no longer see this kind of legal action, because we are convinced together that the government has taken its responsibility, among other things driven by Urgenda but also simply by the conviction in the coalition agreement that good climate policy is good for the Netherlands and for the Dutch economy. Actually, that's my bet. We simply need to ensure that companies within this green industrial policy can do and must do what they want, by working with those companies to scale up renewable energy and energy infrastructure, and by tailor-made agreements. In that case, others will no longer feel the need to make the process to court. If parties do choose to do so, it's up to them. Then it's up to the judge to decide whether he has a role in it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u151	I have a question about green industrial policy. I think that block is finished, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u153	Then I can ask one more question about it. I am afraid that we are now taking one or two years to work out a very bureaucratic concept of how these tailor-made arrangements should look and what is covered by them, when two more years will be lost. How does the Minister view the balance between speed and care? Is he perhaps prepared to see if we can pick one or two or three companies from those 15 to 20 companies to just get to work quickly? Then we can discuss this in this Chamber at an early stage, instead of sitting down and looking for a perfect solution that might take two or three years or maybe even not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u154	I would suggest that I ask Mr Adriaansen to explain in that letter of 7 April how we can make sufficient progress. I agree with you very much: if we want to reach 2030, these companies will have to make their big investment decisions in the next few years. Then it makes no sense for us as a government to spend five years studying what this green industrial policy should look like. It's gotta be quick. Fortunately, the conversations between EZK and the large polluting companies in the Netherlands are already ongoing. We already know roughly what their plans for sustainability are, so hopefully we can also make these talks more concrete quickly. Also in my ideal world we quickly look forward to the first tailor-made arrangements. But I would suggest that the honourable Minister should go into this in more detail in the letter of 7 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u155	That leads to a question from Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u156	In my first term, I was talking about companies for which there is no place in a green economy. I was wondering if the Minister agrees with me that that could really be an option. Can it be part of these customization agreements that companies stop because there's just no room for them anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u157	I do not know what Mr Boucke's interrupting debate with another Member of Parliament was, but I think that is where the crux lies. We just have to challenge companies to the maximum to come up with good plans for how they are going to meet the climate targets. Then we'll decide if they'll get help from the government. In my view, the Chamber has already discussed industrial policy and the future of industry in the Netherlands with the Minister of EZK, on the basis of its outline letter. It also includes that you're going back from 2050: what does the Dutch economy look like and what type of activity fits? You will then have to attract new companies, start-ups and scale-ups help to grow and look very critically at existing companies: does their current model still fit into that new economy? I would also like to propose that this be further developed with the Minister of EZK in the debate on 7 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u158	There is one final question from Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u159	The minister mentioned a letter coming up. Could the Minister of EZK perhaps include the answer to my question in that letter? If there are indeed companies, which after all these plans are found to be no longer possible, then you must also ensure that you have a social plan and help the region. I wonder if these are aspects that the cabinet is also thinking about. Could that be explained in more detail in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u160	I'll pass it on. I think that we can already learn from, for example, the phasing-out of coal power stations about how to do it in an orderly manner. So I will pass on this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u161	Thank you. The Minister continued the reply with the heading on security of supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u162	Yeah, and then in particular...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u163	That's the last cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u164	Yes. I have a few short, other questions after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u165	A few brief questions, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mr. Chairman. Some questions have been asked about security of supply, especially gas. Mr Erkens asked me how we are preparing for the next winter and the role of GasTerra, our own gas stores, long-term contracts and the deployment of LNG. I do that on different levels. I am working with the International Energy Agency and the European Commission to see how we can work with these countries to be less dependent on the whims of the energy market, especially now with the situation in Russia and Ukraine. With the so-called Penta countries, namely the Benelux, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and France, we are looking at our regional gas market and how we can help each other to have sufficient gas resources so that we can make it through the winter every time. That is why we are now working very closely together at official level. Hopefully we will come up with concrete proposals soon. With the Secretary of State for Mining, I am looking at how we can shape the agreements of the coalition agreement for mandatory filling rates for the Dutch gas stores, but also how we can stimulate companies to actually do so. I would like to draw a lesson from the situation in France. We have the Norg Agreement, which means we have pretty good gas deposits in winter. France has a legal obligation to fill. I think the stores should be filled on November 1st. They just don't have a lot of rules about how to use those raises. What did you see last winter with the high energy price? It was full on November 1st, but by Christmas the stores were almost empty again, because it was just sold because of the high energy price. So we need to think very carefully. Yes, mandatory filling is important, but how, for whom and in what situation do you put it in? For this I come with the Secretary of State for Mining with a further elaboration. I have already indicated at the beginning of my reply that we want to be less dependent on one or a few countries when importing energy from abroad. To this end, we are working on agreements with countries where there is potential for producing a lot of green hydrogen. But we have seen in recent times that we import more LNG from, for example, a country like Norway than from Russia. Mr Stoffer asked me about the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan. We have recently requested data from large gas consumers, so that, if we have to ask companies to switch off in an emergency, we also know the social impact of such a switch-off and we can take that into account in order. Mrs Kröger asked me: shouldn't we also make the call to use as little gas as possible? We are, of course, already working, because of the dismantling of Groningen, to get a number of large consumers off that low-caloric gas. The Gas Protection and Recovery Plan also includes communication: in emergency situations a friendly request and a more urgent request to use less gas. But in general, energy efficiency becomes part of my policy, so that we do so anyway and not only in emergencies. Finally. In this context, Mr Van Haga asked whether I can promise that the natural gas infrastructure will be maintained and that no irreversible steps will be taken. We have, of course, been a very large gas production and gas export country. By closing Groningen we will need some of that gas infrastructure less than in recent years. The cabinet wants to partially rebuild this infrastructure, so that we can use it usefully for green hydrogen and for green gas, if we hope to get more of it in the near future. The government has instructed the Gasunie to get such hydrogen infrastructure off the ground, building as much as possible on the existing natural gas infrastructure. About stopping production in Groningen, the Secretary of State for Mining will soon inform the Chamber in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u167	That leads to a question from Mr Grinwis on gas policy, to begin with. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u168	Back to the answer to the question about the filling rate. A clear story, also about how it is then used. My question to the Minister is: what does that mean for the coming months, between 1 April and 1 November, when the gas deposits are going to be filled again? We'll get a letter, but what results will that yield for the coming winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u169	Unfortunately, I am not going to give a super-concrete answer to that now, because we are really working on it. We have agreed in the Norg Agreement on how this storage is filled with low-caloric gas for the use for households and hospitals, not only in the Netherlands, but also in Germany and Belgium, which also partly use it. In part, we have what was agreed in the coalition agreement, so fortunately already in practice. There are also other gas deposits in the Netherlands to which you want to impose the mandatory filling more. We haven't finished that legislative change before the summer, so we need to think about other ways to stimulate the market to fill the gas deposits. That's what we're thinking about right now. I'd rather give you a complete answer in that letter of inquiry soon than give you a half answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u170	Mr Erkens has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u171	I understand that amendment of the law can't be completed before the summer. At the same time, since June last year, we have already adopted Parliamentary motions on gas storage and security of gas supply. We still hear: we intend to, we're going to watch, we're going to talk to. In all honesty: the Minister has just arrived, so I will certainly not charge him personally, but it is time for concrete action in this area. That filling period starts on April 1st. So I would suggest that the Minister should come forward with that letter before 1 April, if that is possible, which states what concrete actions they are going to take. It's fine if they can't guarantee everything for the coming winter. But also pragmatic: what can be done? I refer to those LNG contracts, the role of GasTerra, the role of Gasunie, temporary voluntary agreements. I don't care much, but I just want to see action on this. We've been working since June and I'm afraid we'll miss the boat another season.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u172	A letter for April 1st, can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u173	I'm about to respond in second term when the letter comes. But we're going to paint that as complete as possible for you. The European Commission is also coming up with proposals on how to use the next summer to be as prepared as possible at European level for the next winter. I do believe that we must look very carefully at what we are doing and when we are doing it. The worst thing would be for us to intervene massively in this gas and energy market, making market prices even higher as a government and making the problem worse. So I have to look very carefully at what we do when, but we go into that letter as completely as possible. I'll tell you in second term when that letter is about to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u174	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u175	My question about gas infrastructure was not so much about Groningen, because I understand that lies with the Secretary of State. BVNL is of course the only party here who simply wants to produce and meanwhile wants to keep up the pressure in the field. But that's a whole different story. I am really concerned about the gas infrastructure and I am concerned about the fact that we have failed to increase the electrical infrastructure. Does the Minister agree with me that in the light of what he said about the hydrogen infrastructure that could come about later, it is important to have that redundancy in the system that we have or keep both a gas infrastructure and an electrical infrastructure, so that we do not become dependent on one or the other? Building the gasless is completely contrary to that. Actually, that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u176	I agree with Mr Van Haga that we need a mix of electrons and gas. This is now natural gas, which is becoming more and more hydrogen and green gas. So we'll look at this neighborhood approach: what is full electrification, where is a heat grid useful and where can you get off with green gas? For industry, of course, we are trying at some point to replace as much natural gas as possible with that green hydrogen. So, yes, I agree with him that we can't just look for more grid capacity. We will also need gaseous energy carriers. The advantage of the Netherlands is that we already have such a good natural gas infrastructure and that we are going to use it as much as possible for clean alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u177	Is that enough or is there a final question for the Minister on this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u178	No, it's all about order, isn't it? We failed to increase the electrical infrastructure. Now we are actively taking old buildings off the gas and doing new construction already gasless. Does the Minister not agree with me that this is unwise and that we should do the order differently, so that we end up with a redundant system with all the houses, all the buildings with gas infrastructure and an electrical infrastructure, which in due course will be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u179	I wonder if that is a cost-effective use of all resources. With new construction, you can of course avoid the need for both by applying the highest standards in terms of insulation, energy saving and local energy generation. In the existing city, and especially in really older buildings, it is very difficult to go to full electric. Then you have to make so many adjustments to a house that it's also incredibly expensive. So there can be a heat grid or the maintenance of the natural gas infrastructure for green gas, for example, be a very good outcome. I think we should look at what we need for each area: an increased electricity grid, a converted gas grid or a combination of both. In my opinion, there is no generic approach for the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u180	Thank you. The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u181	Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the other questions, which deal with a number of important issues. I can, I think, be brief about that. Mr Erkens asked me about the approach to nuclear energy. First of all, I would like to mention the importance of a good knowledge infrastructure. That's what I started right away. We have agreed to keep Borssele open longer and to see how we can facilitate the construction of two new nuclear power plants. This requires that there is sufficient knowledge and expertise in the government as well as in supervisors and other institutions. Because, of course, we have spent a very long time phase-out of nuclear energy, there is now no huge pond for people to deploy. We're strengthening and expanding that. The Erkens/Dassen amendment, which was adopted earlier, also helps us to do so. Together with VWS and IenW, who are also responsible for nuclear policy, we will further expand that knowledge infrastructure. I hope to inform you more about this before the summer. On the necessary steps for the new construction of two nuclear power plants, I can say that a scenario study is under way. It looks at the potential role and scope of nuclear energy in the 2030-2050 Energy Mix. The results of this scenario study come in mid-year. I shall, of course, share that with the Chamber. I am also working on a plan for the financial arrangements in the near future. I will see which laws and regulations may need to be adapted and which location is preferred and whether there is support for them. In the second quarter, I will inform you of progress with a letter of inquiry. Mr Van Haga asked whether we would support thorium research. We already do. In the past period 2014-2022, among other things, a EZK grant spent 8.8 million on thorium research. In 2020, a start-up in the area of thorium was funded. As far as that's concerned, we're keeping our sights open. Mr Erkens also asked about what things we should do for Borssele. I am looking with the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State at what steps we should take to extend Borssele's business. Mrs Leijten asked me about last year's 800 million biomass subsidies. She stressed once again that many parliamentary groups wanted to get rid of it. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the cabinet would come up with a phasing-out path for the use of woody biomass for heating. Until such time as that phasing-out path is in place, the cabinet, in line with the Van Esch motion, will not issue any new subsidies for low-grade use of biomass. The current biomass decisions were issued in the 2008 and 2020 opening rounds. There are obligations in those commitments until about 2027. We talk very often about woody biomass, but bio-raw materials in width play a crucial role in achieving our climate goals, always asking ourselves whether they are truly sustainable bio-raw materials, whether we are putting them in the right place and whether public aid in the form of subsidies is needed or whether the market itself is capable of doing the right thing. I'm gonna try to sketch that bio-raw material story as integrally as possible for your room. In that I also take with me what the exhaust path for woody biomass looks like. Mr Erkens and Mrs Leijten asked me about wind on land. Last week we debated this very extensively in the committee debate. I repeat to Mrs Leijten that I find wind on land indispensable in the energy transition, but I also believe that fellow governments are able to think carefully about the application of wind to land, pending the new national standards. I would also like to say once again, as explained by Mr Erkens with a commitment from that committee debate, that it is not possible to impose a temporary national standard from the Empire now. Then I would also have to implement a plan EIA and that plan EIA is now running for the final national standards that we want to apply. Once again, I would like to say to Mr Erkens that I am prepared to discuss with municipalities and provinces the joint arrangements for the installation of new wind turbines, pending national standards. In this way, we avoid getting a patchwork of different approaches, but we apply as many common principles as possible. I will also include the standards from our neighbouring countries, particularly Denmark, in the talks with the co-governments. In the same committee debate, I promised that I would focus on how they apply the "first come, first serve" principle internationally. Mrs Kröger just asked me to involve the co-governments. That's what I'll do when I get to work on this. Then Mr Eerdmans gave me the opportunity to write down some of his technical questions, for which I am grateful. I'm just gonna see which questions are still in this folder. Mrs Teunissen asked about the energy needs of the future. Can we afford it? What does it mean for the energy mix and the expansion of the energy grid? I just answered those questions. I think we've had all the questions. I apologize if I forgot one. I've got another one. Mr Stoffer asked whether the obligation to add would be passed on. CE Delft is currently carrying out an analysis of the feasibility and effects of the obligation to mix green gas. In the second quarter I think I can inform the Chamber of the outcome of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u182	Thanks for the answer. On a number of points there are still questions, starting with Mr Erkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u183	The Minister mentioned a scenario study on nuclear energy which would come out before the summer. That study had already been dropped out of the previous cabinet. I would like to say that the Minister does not have to wait with all the preparatory work, because I think we are going to build at least two. If, on the basis of the scenario study, the Minister finds that more is better, then of course I will not put him in the way. Perhaps one question about this knowledge infrastructure and the fact that there are still few people who have received such training. In our neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium we are now in the process of phasing out. At least those plans are in Belgium. Is it not possible to check whether there is a particular knowledge and expertise there for employees who might want to switch and work here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u184	I can certainly take that with me. If there are good people in Germany and Belgium who want to work in the Netherlands, that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u185	The VVD is for labour migration. It's something! I made a few proposals to the Minister. I'd like a reaction to that. I understand that we have to wait until the Spring note to see if people who really can't afford it will be compensated for those high gas prices. But I had also made a number of proposals to enable people to quickly put solar panels on their roofs, because they could get money from the Heat Fund at 0% interest rate, and to enable them to isolate their homes. That makes them independent of gas and those high gas prices. I had also asked if we could make an agreement with the housing corporations that they would put their roofs full of solar panels as soon as possible, so that the tenants could benefit, and that they would accelerate their approach to the most drafty dwellings. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u186	I would like to thank Mr Thijssen for all his concrete suggestions on what we can do in the short term to reduce the energy consumption and thus the energy bill of people at home. The National Heat Fund already provides financing to property owners with loan space and also to vve's with eight or more apartments. The Minister of VRO is preparing a further opening up of the Heat Fund for the benefit of small VVEs. In addition, by this summer at the latest, it will be indicated to what extent it is desirable to offer homeowners without loan space a carefree approach. So if there is no community approach and you don't have any financial space yourself, can you be helped in some way? That's what the Minister of VRO comes up with for the summer. For the rental sector as a whole, legislation is being prepared for standardisation. Mr Thijssen and Mr Grinwis drew attention to this. Standardisation of the rental sector will also really be necessary to get an extra pace in the approach to housing. I will also include some of that standardisation in the sun-on-roof letter that I myself am preparing, in coordination with a number of colleagues. But Mr Thijssen has made some more concrete suggestions. I am simply going to take it with me if I continue to prepare this letter with the Member of Housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u187	And that's in the whole package before May 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u188	Mr Thijssen, your last.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u189	They are then incorporated and looked at: do we allow everyone to participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u190	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u191	With a footnote: thanks to Mr Thijssen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u192	Thanks to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u193	You're welcome. At your service. A question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u194	I still had some substantive questions, but, as far as I am concerned, they can be dealt with in writing, just like those of JA21. One question remains. I'm a little doubting whether I'm going to table a motion for that or not. That question was about the ISDE. For an ISDE grant, you must now submit two measures. My question was whether it could also be settled for lower-income households, who cannot pay for these two measures, that there should be one measure? I didn't think I'd get an answer to that. I'm not entirely sure, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u195	That was in a broader answer from me just now. I also mentioned your name at the time, but apparently I did not reply well enough. I very much understand the thoughts of you and others: why do you have to take two isolation measures to get access to these subsidies? That was once conceived because it wouldn't be profitable if you only took one measure. But you are asking, of course, I understand, because a lot of people who are now in trouble and do not have the financial space to make their own house more sustainable would be very happy if they could get to work on one ISDE measure. So I very much share the sympathy of your thought, but I just haven't gotten an answer to the question as to whether it's possible. So what I just said in my broader story about the approach is that I want to take this question with me in the elaboration of those plans for the built environment. So in May you will be given an answer to this in the programme approach of the Minister of VRO and myself. So you don't have to make a motion, because I'm just gonna tell you that I'm gonna look at this right now. And if it can indeed, we think it is a good idea, and it can be done sooner, then we can possibly do it sooner. However, I would like to take a closer look at the situation with the Members of this House, and I would like to see whether there are any hooks and eyes left on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u196	Clear. That's enough. Mr Grinwis would like to ask a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u197	I want to continue on this. I have just asked written questions about this. I know that they have always been a bit reluctant at VRO on this point, but this can really be done in practical ways. In the case of the first measure, there may be a slightly different percentage than for two or three measures. In any case, more time must be given to take these two measures. Now you have to file your invoices within six months. That really sucks for a lot of people. They simply cannot qualify for these two measures. So it's just a little too much from the policy tower and from the drawing table, and a little too little from the point of view of households who have to make ends meet every month, every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u198	This is a back-up for the Minister to tackle it firmly and adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u199	I think that many of these isolation programmes and grant schemes have been devised with the question of how to take the greatest possible step towards sustainability. The acute crisis in that energy market simply requires a slightly different approach, a slightly more hand-on-hand approach. If people are willing to take one measure, you want to support them as much as possible. However, as I said to Mr Stoffer, you do not need to table a motion to urge me to do so, because I will simply go with the Minister of VRO to see what is possible. And if we come to the conclusion that it really is not possible, then I will also explain in detail why we find it. But the chamber's incentive is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u200	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Thanks for the answer. We shall proceed immediately to the second term of office. Each political group has a third of the speaking time it had in the first term. That means more than a minute and a half. In that minute, you'll have to file the motions as well. So if you were to consider submitting a motion, perhaps it would be advisable to start reading the motions. Because after 1 minute and 40 seconds, the light goes out and you're speechless. I shall be the first to give Mr Erkens the floor in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope the light doesn't go out on me now. In my view, in today's debate, the Chamber concluded from left to right that dependence on Russian gas simply makes us extremely vulnerable. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas gas prices are sky-high;]] [[noting that the Netherlands and Europe are too dependent on Russia;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to reduce Russia's energy dependence in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government to carry out an investigation in which we make clear the energy dependence of non-free countries;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually on these dependencies, including specifically Russia's gas imports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Erkens, Mr Boucke, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Grinwis, Mr Teunissen, Mr Stoffer, Mr Kröger, Mr Thijssen and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-975]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mr President, I shall now move on to my second motion. Fortunately, the Minister has already made a commitment by wind on land. I'd like to be a little sharper in the incentive. The Chamber, heard the debate, considering... No, I have the wrong motion in front of me, Mr. Chairman. Well, then we'll do it at another debate. Something went wrong here for the first time. You're lucky, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u203	Look. That's what happens in the best families, let's just say. And it's always good to have something on hand. Thank you. Will you just give me the right motion? Mrs Teunissen has the floor for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u204	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State,]] [[noting that the PBL recommended on the new ministerial posts that it is important to balance possible conflicting objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a climate test and apply it at relevant times to the policies of all departments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen, Mr Simons, Mr Kröger and Mr Thijssen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-976]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u205	The second motion concerns an investigation into climate control. We have also held a motion on climate control, because the plans would still come. They're here now. We don't see the duty in it. Hence this additional motion on the restrained motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is committed to binding customised arrangements with the 10 to 20 largest greenhouse gas emissions, which are partly funded by tax money;]] [[Whereas taxpayers' money should be spent effectively;]] [[Whereas a climate obligation can be an appropriate instrument for promoting the efficiency of climate policy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of a climate obligation and to inform the Court of Justice about it this spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Teunissen and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-977]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u207	Thank you for your contribution. Mrs Kröger has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u208	Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions, so I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rising gas prices are making energy poverty an increasing problem;]] [[Whereas better insulation is the key to lower energy costs;]] [[Whereas double glazing can significantly reduce heat loss and thus reduce energy poverty;]] [[Considering that many landlords are still not making sufficient efforts to better isolate housing and that tenants and municipalities are asking for more action;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to prevent energy poverty and to put forward a proposal in the short term to label single glass as a lack of a rental house, so that tenants are eligible for rent reduction as long as there is no double glass in a house,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the climate fund's resources are largely devoted to the sustainability of energy-intensive companies but that they are not subject to any obligations;]] [[Whereas innovations promoted by public funds should benefit the energy transition as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a climate obligation for companies benefiting from funds from the Climate Fund, which includes at least a plan for climate-neutral by 2050, settleable intermediate targets and clear frameworks on how innovations funded from public funds benefit the energy transition as a whole,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy saving is at the heart of the energy transition, since the energy you do not use does not need to be generated;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement does not include specific targets for energy saving;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the possibilities for a national energy saving plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-978]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Thijssen, Mr Leijten, Mr Simons and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-979]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Thijssen and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-980]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u209	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u210	I thank you as much. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u211	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to implement two nuclear power plants;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward within three months with realistic plans for the realisation of nuclear power plants and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate plans may potentially cost citizens and entrepreneurs billions;]] [[points out that citizens and entrepreneurs should not be burdened by government climate plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas thorium plants can provide the Netherlands with sustainable and stable energy in the future;]] [[calls on the government to release funds from the climate or nitrogen fund for research into the use of thorium plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-981]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-982]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Haga, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-983]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u212	It is indeed about the first motion. Do I understand correctly that Mr Van Haga says that he wants to have a plan from the cabinet for how the government is going to implement two nuclear power plants, so that this will be a public task at the expense and risk of the government? Can you explain that, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u213	No, the government facilitates. The government will therefore have to make a plan for this and the government is involved, but I do not propose that the government finance it. No, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u214	Clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u215	No, it's not entirely clear to me. Can you read the motion again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u216	I'd love to. The Chamber, having heard the debate, noted that the government intended to implement two nuclear power stations; called on the government to come forward within three months with a realistic plan for the realisation of the nuclear power stations and the Chamber to inform them as soon as possible, and moved on to the order of the day; co-tabled by Mr Smolders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u217	I really believe that Mr Van Haga is saying that the government wants to build two nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u218	Well, it says "nuclear power stations are about to be realized." So the government is going to make sure that there are nuclear power stations. I believe that we are now in a majority in favour of this. I think it is right for the government to entame and facilitate this, but of course the government is not going to sit in the seat of an energy company itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u219	Perhaps it is a good thing that we are following Mr Van Haga's hermeneutics. That's to make it happen. The government facilitates, but the government doesn't realize it single-handedly. That's the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u220	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u221	That's sufficiently enlightening, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u222	I think that is exactly what I was trying to explain to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u223	Mr Bontenbal also has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u224	I'm a little confused. Why build nuclear power plants when you deny a climate problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u225	But that's a question for the...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u226	That is a very interesting question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u227	Yes. You can answer it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u228	It is extremely important that we have a stable energy supply. Nuclear energy can make a very good contribution in the mix, unlike solar energy, wind energy, biomass plants and so on. You're responsible for sunshine in all kinds of meadows. That's where you could build. As a result, there is less sun on the roof. I don't quite understand the question, but you're in a bit of a hurry to make fun of the CDA on this front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u229	Why don't we just leave it at that? This is a subject that is still on the agenda many times. Watch me. Don't shoot all your gunpowder already, I'd say. A very brief remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u230	The point is that we reduce CO emissions by shutting down fossil power stations. If you deny the climate problem, then the most realistic approach is to leave the current power stations open and not to shut down the current power stations and then build climate-neutral nuclear power plants. If you deny the climate problem, you don't start with nuclear energy. If you take the climate problem very seriously, you'll build nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u231	A brief response from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u232	The importance of the Netherlands takes the environmental problem seriously. In order to achieve a better environment, it is very sensible to build nuclear power plants. I think we're all in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u233	Clear. Thank you. I call Mrs Leijten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u234	Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Minister to return earlier to the energy bill and the possible debt problem. I can imagine that he would have to discuss this with the Minister who is also talking about it, but I would ask him to do so more quickly and see if he can do so sooner than in the spring. I think there are serious problems there. On resolving the amount of the energy bill, we still have the Start note and other debates. We shall also make proposals there. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an institution law will be introduced for the 35 billion climate and transition fund;]] [[calls on the Government to include the following principles in that law:]] [[knowledge developed through grants shall be publicly accessible;]] [[built infrastructure is in public hands;]] [[the subsidy is repaid as soon as profits are made by companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-984]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u235	Then there's a Leiten/Erkens motion. There's something else on it, but something went wrong at the filing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement agreed on distance standards for the construction of windmills on land;]] [[Whereas these distance standards can only be adopted by 2023 after the completion of the EIA plan;]] [[Whereas it is important that, until then, uniform standards are applied by municipalities and provinces in order to avoid major disparities between regions;]] [[Calls on the Government to agree this spring with municipalities, provinces and RES regions on the principles to be used for the installation of new wind turbines, including strict minimum distance standards, pending the new national wind turbine standards;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether we can apply the Danish model temporarily for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Erkens.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-985]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u236	Mr President, you will hear that the drafting of motions also has a certain DNA or stamp, but I am glad that I was able to submit them on behalf of both of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u237	I understand why he left the reading of the motion to you! Thank you. It leads to a question from Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u238	I understand the motion, of course. My question to that effect. Suppose residents agree with a project and it's their own. So they themselves set up that wind turbine project with an energy cooperative. But one mill is a little too close to a number of houses, given that temporary standard that Mrs Leijten and Mr Erkens are proposing. What's to be done? What does this motion mean for such an initiative, which comes from the bottom and belongs to citizens themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u239	You know that the SP would prefer to say: do a stand still until it is clear. But of course this is mainly about the situations that are problematic in realising and where there is a lot of protest. We all know them, and we all know one or two situations where there is agreement. There you don't expect so soon those legal procedures and those complaints, which would make you say: go there then. Although I think it would be wise, in principle, to give these initiatives a standstill: wait for those distance standards, and see how you can proceed in consensus. I think this is also right in principle for these initiatives, because you have not set or set these distance standards for nothing, and you may not, for the future too, allow the one that is just a little too close to it to be a legal problem. So I would like to say, also heard last week's debate on which we discussed this for a long time, that where there is consensus, let it continue there. You wouldn't want to block that, but handle it wisely. If you asked me in principle, I would even say to those initiatives: wait until those distance standards are there, even if you have a great consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u240	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u241	This avoids problems in the future, according to the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u242	Thank you. I call Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u243	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for replying. Mr President, I am going to take your opinion to heart: I will start with three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the climate forecast is very large and involves high costs;]] [[Whereas it is important that climate policy should have sufficient support to succeed;]] [[points out that climate policy will have to be feasible and affordable for citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy tariffs are 86% higher than they were a year ago;]] [[whereas this will significantly increase VAT revenues;]] [[calls on the Government to return the additional VAT revenue to the citizen, for example in the form of a lower energy tax or otherwise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-986]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-987]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u244	And finally, Mr. Chairman. I have visited the Regional Energy Strategies with two colleagues. I have seen some very nice initiatives there. Hence the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition requires a sustained and significant effort on the part of society;]] [[whereas the energy transition can be regulated not only from The Hague, but also depends on many local initiatives, partly defined in the Regional Energy Strategies;]] [[calls on the government to identify best practices and bottlenecks in these local initiatives, and then to share them with the local authorities, with the aim of strengthening and improving the energy transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-988]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u245	It remains for me, Mr President, to thank you extensively for chairing in about 30 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u246	Thank you for these heart-warming words. I call Mr Boucke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One motion, on rising energy prices. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy prices continue to rise due to increasing international tensions;]] [[noting that a group of households suffers from a significant increase in the energy bill;]] [[Considering that, despite the 3 billion package in autumn 2021 for households, this is a major attack on their wallet which they are difficult to anticipate;]] [[calls on the government to include the impact of the rising energy bill on vulnerable low and middle incomes in the spring decision-making proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boucke, Mr Erkens, Mr Bontenbal and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-989]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to table a motion on green industrial policy. We need to be a little careful that it's going to be a hollow phrase. We're all talking about it. GroenLinks has written a very nice report about it. From the CDA we have written things about it as well. If we are going to do this sort of thing, I think it is very important that we really have a good note on green industrial policy or on green industrial policy. In the 1940s, we started with notes on industrialization policy. For a number of decades, we stopped directing from the government on industrial policy. Now we see that reviving, but I do think it is very important that we have a good basis, a good foundation for that. That's what my motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that green industrial policy is once again high on the political agenda;]] [[Whereas green industrial policy should not become a hollow phrase, but should be provided with a sound vision of green industrial policy;]] [[calls on the government to present a vision for green industrial policy this year which builds on the government's vision of sustainability of basic industry 2050 from 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bontenbal, Mr Erkens, Mr Grinwis and Mr Boucke.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-990]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u249	I've got 30 seconds left. In my contribution, I have called for some attention to be paid to innovation. We have not paid much attention to this in this debate. I do not know if I necessarily need answers about this now, but I think that we should discuss it very carefully in the context of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u250	There is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u251	We have just heard during the debate in this Chamber, and a little outside the microphones, that the spokesmen here were the architects of the climate plans in the coalition agreement. To what extent is it still necessary to table a motion on green industrial policy? Does Mr Bontenbal have the idea that this was not well enough agreed in the coalition negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u252	No. I think we're on the right track, so I'm fully defending what we're doing as a coalition here. But I think it would be a good idea to explore a number of themes further. I am thinking of issues such as 'location climate', 'innovation', 'how will businesses stimulate employment', 'education'. I think that should be in the whole package of green industrial policy. I believe that we still have a number of steps to take, especially if we are going to make tailor-made arrangements. There is a view of reciprocity behind that. I think it's a good thing that there's a good document under there. I would like us to review this every few years and discuss it again. I am thinking of the industrialization policy notes from the 1940s and 1950s. That's been going on for a very long time. We should do that again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u253	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u254	I am also asking the question a little in the context of our agreements on the need for motions. The motion is signed by those who are called the architects of the chapter on climate policy in the government agreement. The minister said he's still coming up with a vision. I do not see very well what this is asking the government for beyond what is already happening. I think it is right for us as a Chamber to table motions if no commitments have been made, if we want to change cabinet policy or if the cabinet deserves encouragement. This really seems to me to be an example of an unnecessary motion, however much I would like to have that debate on this green industrial policy. We have already planned that debate. That is why I put the question to Mr Bontenbal. It seems to me right that we should all stay focused on this. Despite the importance of the content, you do not always have to file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u255	May these words lead to further reflection in all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u256	I think this motion really does do something extra. I'm filing one motion today. One. Other colleagues put in more, so I find it a little faint to blame myself for tabling a motion. I believe that I am one of the colleagues who table relatively few motions. I often sign with others. I also find it a little special that the SP comes with it, because last year the SP tabled most of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u257	That's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u258	But it's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u259	Absolutely, Mr Bontenbal has a point that the SP submits many motions. We are trying to encourage and hunt the cabinet, and we are trying to put things on the agenda. That is also our parliamentary work. But I am certainly making this point within my own group. Is it necessary or is it not necessary? I tabled an additional motion today because something went wrong with a colleague, but I also dropped a motion because I got the Minister's promise that he would talk to the energy industry. I'll keep doing that. This time it was Mr Bontenbal with the question: what is the motion different from what you have already discussed? That's my point. Next time, I will also reassure another coalition party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u260	A cultural change is always a difficult process, but it is good to take steps in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u261	I agree with Mrs Leijten that we should table fewer motions here. That is also what we are discussing in our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u262	It still leads to warm words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u263	It is high time for a substantive question to be put to Mr Bontenbal. The motion is about a vision of green industrial policy. We have therefore asked for this in the main debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs. What's this view of the 2040 economy? What are we heading for? So I understand the motion, too, and I hope that the cabinet already intended to do so. But how does this timing relate to customization agreements with the companies? The whole idea is that you first have a picture of the economy we're heading for. What's the construction, the dismantling, the conversion? Before we start making choices in certain sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u264	I don't think we're gonna get a picture of the 2050 economy with one note. That is why I think it is right to start with this. I believe that the vision of the basic industry created by Minister Wiebes at the time is already full of good ingredients. That is why, in my motion, I also ask that we build on that. Such a note should be reviewed every four years with new insights. But we're also just in a hurry. We can't completely figure out the whole policy before we start making tailor-made arrangements. Those tailor-made agreements must be part of this green industrial policy. At the same time, these tailor-made arrangements only cover the 12 to 20 largest exhibitors. There is also a very large part of business that we need to use green industrial policy in a different way. In my contribution, for example, I asked what we are doing with small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as I am concerned, this paper on green industrial policy is about much more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u265	That seems sufficient to me at the moment. Mrs. Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u266	We have heard the Minister say: I will hand in the package as of 1 May to pass it on and there comes the tailor-made work for industry. That would add up to 60%, because it doesn't now. But how does the deadline of 1 May and the tailor-made approach relate to companies, the beginning of which is in October, as Mr Bontenbal actually says?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u267	A brief response from Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u268	I do not quite understand this point of October. I think it can be parallel. I think it can be in addition to the package we made as a coalition. There are, of course, a number of starting points for green industrial policy, but I think it is very sensible to keep thinking about what green industrial policy is and how far that government intervention is going to go in the coming years. Recently, outside the debate, we had another discussion about the fact that even EZK officials were on the supervisory board of certain companies in the past. That went completely wrong at the time with the RSV-debacle. That included a parliamentary survey at the time. But that's the kind of thing you need to talk to each other about. What is the distance from business to e.g. EZK? We are not going to encrypt that in a coalition agreement, but I think it is very important to discuss these issues in such a note. That will then be a slightly longer document, which we will have to discuss a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u269	This seems sufficient for the current state of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u270	May I add one more point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u271	You may add one point, but briefly. One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u272	I know that Mrs Kröger also considers the issue of system transitions to be important. That should also be given a role in that. We are dealing with certain companies, but how do you take care of the system transitions? That seems to me to be part of that note too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u273	Thank you. I call Mr Eerdmans. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u274	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 814 million was allocated to biomass last year;]] [[noting that the share of renewable energy from biomass is increasing steadily;]] [[noting that the promised phasing-out path for biomass subsidies is still pending;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on new biomass plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Teunissen, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-991]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u275	Then the second one. I can say that JA21 has a lot to say about this, including in the provincial delegations. Think of this as an incentive, because that is where this problem is all the more true. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the growing awareness of the health risks of wind turbines;]] [[noting that already 55,000 Dutch homes are within a one kilometre radius of a wind turbine;]] [[noting that this number is likely to increase significantly as a result of the RESs;]] [[noting that the announced distance standards are still one year behind schedule;]] [[calls on the Government to stop all plans and developments concerning new wind turbines until the announced distance standards are in place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-992]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u276	Thank you very much. I call Mr Grinwis. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for Climate and Energy for his clear answers and commitments. Good to see that there is a lot of coherence in his thinking and action: he not only wants to fix the energy and climate transition, but so that people can experience it. This is how we fight energy poverty. It is good that he and Minister De Jonge, among others, are working together to help people who live in poorly isolated homes first out of the current energy crisis. Thank you for that, and also my almost unnecessary incentives. Then there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas prices have increased extremely in the last six months and that a gas exporter such as Russia is doing so;]] [[Whereas, from a geopolitical, energy and climate perspective, it is undesirable for the Netherlands to rely on fossil fuels from non-free countries;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to energy independence from non-free countries in the forthcoming policy programme in the context of the climate and energy section of the coalition agreement and to use it to reduce this anything but sustainable dependence as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Erkens, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Boucke and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-993]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u278	That is, of course, in the context of topical and urgent debate. A slight tightening or direction in all the beautiful things in the coalition agreement. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u279	Thank you. I call Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Climate policy will only succeed if we do it honestly. I have heard from the Minister today that the climate transition is just as much a social transition. The Labour Party very much agrees. If you ask the Dutch 35 billion to grow our economy and become climate neutral, which the Labour Party can support, the Labour Party does not think it is more than normal that low and middle incomes do not go down financially. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 550,000 households in the Netherlands are already living in energy poverty;]] [[believes that climate policy only works if it is fair;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that low and middle income groups do not, on balance, deteriorate financially from climate policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-994]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u281	And then another motion, which hopefully can get a ruling from the Chamber so that on 1 May we can see more precisely how we can help to make low and middle incomes more sustainable. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that low-income households are often unable to invest thousands of euros in residential insulation, solar panels or an electric car, and thus cannot benefit from subsidies, netting, energy savings and/or lower operating costs;]] [[considers that it is undesirable that sustainability subsidies should mainly be paid to people with relatively high incomes, as demonstrated, for example, by the evaluation of the SEEH scheme;]] [[calls on the government to examine how sustainability subsidies can be made more accessible to low-income households, including the possibility of income-dependent subsidies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-995]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u282	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u283	And then I have five seconds to thank the President most sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u284	Thank you. He will accept this thanks. I call Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the government agreement, the government indicated its intention to use 55% CO reduction in 2030 and that the Netherlands should be climate neutral in 2050;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the KNMI indicates that with the current course we are heading for more than 2 degrees of warming, despite the stated objective of up to 1.5 degrees of warming, and that this has disastrous consequences for all life on Earth;]] [[Whereas the scale of the so-called "Committed Warming" which calculates the rate of warming on the basis of complex data was already more frequent than initially estimated, and the government should remain flexible in the possibility of additional intervention to prevent more than 1.5 degree warming at all times;]] [[calls on the government to draw up an emergency plan in which the Netherlands will be climate neutral in 2030, if this proves necessary to remain below 1.5 degrees of warming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-996]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u286	I have tabled the motion in the light of the fact that the Minister has just responded and I have expressed my understanding of the dilemma that might arise. Unfortunately, for the proposers, we are still looking for a concrete benchmark that will enable everyone to understand that we need to make haste. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u287	Thank you. Unfortunately, Mr Kops has had to opt out. I call Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion. Many of them have already been submitted. I would like to make a few reflections, for example on that nuclear point. That is quite right to say. I must also agree with the new Minister for Climate, because nuclear power stations do not heat houses. They're heated by gas. 92% of households have a central heating boiler that works on gas. So if we were to move to nuclear energy, we would have a very big problem. We're gonna have to rebuild all the houses and make them gas-free. Those are exactly the plans that this cabinet is implementing, but we are opposed to them. We want Dutch households to remain heated with gas and keep the coal plants open. If there is a shortage of electricity, which does not seem to be the case at the moment, we could build a coal power plant. We have the cleanest coal plants in the world. Let's just keep it open. Let's just continue with the energy production we have. We don't have to make any radical changes in that. Then there's just nothing to worry about. I just wanted to reflect on that briefly. I see I have 40 seconds left, so I want to share another reflection. I want to remind you of the whole thing around Schiermonnikoog, with that cable that suddenly had to pass underneath the island. That's what I thought was a typical example of us doing things from all kinds of climate considerations and ideas, but we find out halfway through that we can't do it at all. It turned out that there had to be a cable to such a wind farm to get the power ashore. I think that's what we're gonna see in that gas project. I'm sure I'm not gonna convince you, but we're gonna see it over the years. I think that the electorate must then once again consider whether he is going to entrust his vote to these parties once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u289	Thank you. That leads to a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u290	I have a substantive question. If your constituents promise anything, I think you should stick to that, too. The election programme of the Forum for Democracy specifically stated that nuclear energy would be used. Has that changed? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u291	That's a good question. We are not opposed to nuclear energy, but it must be necessary. There is no need to meet the climate targets, because we do not want to achieve these climate targets at all. I think that's a very clear story. If you want to build a nuclear power plant, you have to. At the moment, there is no need for such a billion-dollar project, which will take decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u292	May I suggest a choice? Would you rather have the gas in Groningen kept coming out of the ground than to build an additional nuclear power plant in Borssele?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u293	I will quote the Minister: nuclear power stations do not heat houses. The houses are heated by gas and that gas is underground in Groningen. It's very simple. Otherwise, we're gonna have to rebuild houses. If that's what you want, you'll support the government in making homes natural gas-free. That is a huge intervention in the current built environment. For this to happen, hundreds of billions of people need to build up their homes. We don't want that. These costs come back to citizens, so if we have to, we choose to keep houses to gas and drill gas in, for example, Groningen. Of course we have to compensate the Groningen, but we make that very simple assessment. We currently have a fantastic infrastructure in the Netherlands; let's just continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u294	I think it's gonna be enough for the moment. There will undoubtedly be many chances to each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u295	No, you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u296	You don't? Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u297	Mr Stoffer asked a very substantive question, but we did not receive such a substantive answer, at least incorrect answer. 45% of our gas consumption is for electricity production and 28% for heating the built environment. The fact is that we use more gas for electricity production. Maybe a nuclear power plant is a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u298	But not for heating houses. That was the Minister's quote. I would like to explain briefly for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u299	I think we're exchanging information here, but we're not going into any further detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u300	Gas is of course very important for our electricity production, so let's continue with that. We do house heating with natural gas. That is quite clear: 92% of the houses are heated with it. I went into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u301	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u302	Mr. Chairman. I have one short motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB did not take into account the non-EMU-relevant burdens arising from climate and energy measures when passing on the coalition agreement;]] [[considers that an understanding of the non-EMU-relevant burdens is important for the proper decision-making of energy taxes;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the non-EMU-relevant burden of climate action is identified and to inform the Court within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-997]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u304	Thank you. Finally, Mrs van der Plas has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u305	Can I have all the saved seconds?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u306	Now give you the textbook example of how you can place something very pressing in half a minute, so that everyone listens breathless and says: yes, that's the way it should be! Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u307	Everyone always listens to me breathless, even if I don't do it in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u308	There are people hanging from your lips.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u309	I'm gonna start now, because the clock's gonna tick.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u310	Yeah, I already told you it's ticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u311	I would like to come back to the small amount of money that the cabinet has earmarked for innovations on the farmyard and the lack of the word 'agriculture' in the climate fund. In the nitrogen fund, 1.2 billion is available for innovation. This compared with 17.4 billion for buy-up and write-down, 2.6 billion for nature-inclusive agriculture and 1.5 billion for policy. Even the government's implementation costs are even more than there is money for innovations on the farmyard: 2.1 billion. That seems to me to be a very good topic to discuss during the coffee, for which I have just been invited by the Minister. Well, then we'll have to talk about the abandonment, but we're going to do that soon. I also have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas relocation of food production from the Netherlands poses a risk of causing an increase in greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[Whereas food security is a fundamental need;]] [[noting that the government also wants to look at the contribution being made to reducing the total climate footprint of the Netherlands, including abroad;]] [[calls on the government to identify the risk of carbon leakage in agricultural climate measures and to take this into account in the implementation of agricultural climate policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that emissions emitted by industrial companies do not always correspond to what they give up;]] [[Considering that the government intends to address the impact of measures on the nitrogen and climate targets in an integral manner with coherent monitoring and registration;]] [[Whereas there is insufficient capacity in environmental services to check that companies give up the right emissions;]] [[Whereas the difference between declared emissions and actual emissions is often very large;]] [[Whereas industry often does not have an Nb licence and therefore may fall back on the emissions they had in 1994 or 2004;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of policies can only be monitored if the actual emissions of all sectors are equal;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to develop a plan of action to monitor the actual emissions of industrial companies and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-998]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-999]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u312	Thank you for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u313	This motion has been recycled for the third time. Speaking of climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u314	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has requested that 15 minutes be suspended. That's what we're gonna do. That means I'll suspend until 5:07 p.m. We'll meet back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u315	The Minister has the floor. This is your chance, Minister. You can go through everything, because the spokesmen are still on coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u316	Mr. Chairman. Then I shall begin, because I had two more questions to answer from Mr Bontenbal and he has already come in. He asked about the international emissions of electricity production. I have replied briefly earlier. There's an approved Bontenball motion. We are in the process of implementing it. I'll get back to you on that soon. Furthermore, Mr Bontenbal was right to say that innovation is crucial to achieving our climate and energy transition in a good way, with acceleration of transition and maximum cost reduction. The increased targets also require additional commitment. The coalition agreement also provides considerable funding for additional innovation funds. The climate and energy transition is one of the spearheads in this process. I will work out the vision you have asked for in the Climate and Energy Programme. I will go into that in detail. Mr Erkens asked if I could send the letter of inquiry on security of gas supply before 1 April. I would suggest to him that I do so in mid-April, because I have a number of reports that are crucial to that letter. In the middle of April, I will discuss security of gas supply for the coming winter and what can be arranged alongside the Norg Agreement. I will go into more detail about international cooperation with the European Commission, but also with neighbouring countries. I can also take with me the ACER report on energy markets, which comes in early April. That is why I would like to send that letter in mid-April. I would also like to comment on the Erkens motion for a resolution on research into security of supply for the next ten to fifteen years. I'll send you that letter on behalf of the Secretary of State for Mining. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Erkens c.s. On Russia's dependence, I can judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 976 by Mrs Teunissen on the climate test. I will outline to you in the Climate and Energy Programme how I am going to implement that generation test. The Young Climate Movement came up with that, so as far as I'm concerned, climate must be a good part of that too. Perhaps Mrs Teunissen would like to hold the motion until then. If she doesn't think it's enough, we can discuss it. But if you don't, I'm gonna back off this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u317	Mrs Teunissen remains seated, so the motion in part No. 976 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u318	The motion in part No. Mrs Teunissen's 977 calls for a climate obligation. With reference to the debate, I do not think that adds anything to what we are going to agree with the big business. So I must also advise against that motion. Then the motion to part No. 978 by Kröger and Bromet over single glass labeled as lack of a rental house. I would ask Mrs Kröger to hold the motion so that I have a little more time to consult with the Minister for Housing and we can see if this can be taken into account in the broader approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u319	Very briefly, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u320	I'd be happy to hold the motion until I put it to the vote. But when are we going to get that reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u321	As I indicated in the debate, the Minister for VRO will present the programme of sustainability built environments in the spring. I know that it is his intention to do so before we have to offer the Integrated Climate and Energy Programme to the PBL. You'll get that reaction in two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u322	I'm gonna go talk to my fellow spokesperson, Wonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u323	The motion in part No. 979 by Mrs Kröger, like Mrs Teunissen's motion for a resolution on climate change, I must advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 980 from Kröger, Thijssen and Teunissen invites the government to draw up a national energy saving plan. That motion I would like to give to the Chamber a brief explanation. There are specific increased savings targets from Europe. I am now exploring with TNO how we can transfer them to national targets, in addition to our climate ambitions. The added value of a possible national plan also depends on the design of the sustainability programme built environment, which we have just talked about. However, as I pointed out in the debate, energy saving must become an important part of our approach. With that lecture, judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u324	The motion has judgment in the Chamber, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u325	I had another question about the previous motion, which the Minister did not recommend with reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u326	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u327	The motion also asks about clear frameworks for innovations. If they are funded from public funds, they should be available for the entire energy transition. Could the Minister perhaps respond to that aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u328	Mrs Leijten asked for this in the debate. This concerns a kind of open source knowledge development. In our letter of 7 April on green industrial policy, I suggest that we also discuss this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u329	Fine. The motion in part No. 981.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u330	The motion in part No. 981 is the Van Haga/Smolders motion. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. In reply to Mr Erkens, I indicated that in the second quarter I will send a comprehensive letter on the elaboration of the extension of Borssele and the facilitation of the construction of new nuclear power stations. I cannot give you what Mr Van Haga is asking me in this motion. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 982 is a speech-exmotion. As a member of parliament, I've learned that as a minister, you shouldn't like that, so I'm not gonna do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u331	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u332	The motion in part No. 883 from Van Haga and a number of others ask the government to release funds from the climate and nitrogen fund for research into thorium plants. I advise against this motion, because we are already making subsidies available for thorium research in other ways. I really want to use the climate fund for measures that will lead to a reduction in CO emissions in the years to come. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mrs Leijten's 984. Companies will have to make serious investments in the near future to make their business processes more sustainable. The cabinet holds on to the motto that the polluter has to pay. We do this through the fiscal greening, in which we find a balance between the root and the stick. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u333	Thank you. There is a short question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u334	Thorium plants lead to CO reductions. The Minister's reply indicated that we are already doing it. That's good, but it's about doing it a little more, from the climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u335	The Chamber is going to monitor very closely whether we use the 35 billion from the climate fund usefully and cost-effectively. I will come back with the results. But for me, one of the most important principles is that this money should lead to additional CO reductions in the coming years, and I do not see thorium plants before 2030. So I'm not gonna pay for that from the climate fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u336	The motion in part No. 984.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u337	I think I just got that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u338	Yes. The motion in part No. 985.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u339	The motion in part No. 985 by Mrs Leijten and Mr Erkens. With reference to last week's committee debate and my commitment there, I can give this motion a ruling Chamber. I would also like to endorse Mr Grinwis' response following the tabling of that motion. At local level, municipalities, provinces and energy cooperatives are very carefully working on planning for wind on land. I do not want to be arrogant that we can do this better here at our level than our fellow governments and the citizens concerned. But I had already promised to work out the common principles with municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 986, but I am looking at Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u340	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u341	It's about the previous motion. We did indeed have the committee debate on this subject last week. If we are delayed by wind on land, when these governments can do their best to ensure that they do not cause too much nuisance and that there is no health risk, the 60% target is at risk. This motion therefore raises the question of what this means for the objective. Aren't we going to cause unnecessary delays that we can't afford?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u342	No, that's not my assessment. In the short term, I hope to complete the studies on new wind standards on land and to involve the PlanMER so that we can adopt these new national standards next year. This really will allow us to continue with the enormous ambition of the Regional Energy Strategies. As we discussed last week in the committee debate, we are ensuring maximum support for projects that will continue in the meantime by setting common principles with co-governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u343	The motion in part No. 986.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u344	That's a speech-out. So I have no opinion on that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u345	The motion in part No. 987. We are not going to do the whole debate again, I say to Mr Eerdmans. I followed everything that was said, but I really want to move on to the next motion. I really want to speed up. You've been working on this since 10:15 this morning. I hear you saying you're just getting a little warm. I call Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u346	Do I therefore understand that there is a commitment that the implementation of this motion will not lead to delays in the projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u347	Honestly, I think that's a bit of a weird question. Last week, in the committee debate, we discussed this very effectively. My commitment has now almost landed one-on-one in a motion. So it would be weird if I didn't pass that motion on to Chamber now. Look, in a broader sense, I'm just gonna make sure we have clarity for sun on land and wind on land as soon as possible. I have promised you several letters so that all these co-governments can go through with the regional energy approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u348	Perhaps for the President: this motion was not discussed today in the debate. That's why we're gonna ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u349	I thought you'd start with a new topic tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u350	My question is what it means to use principles. How binding is this at the time when local authorities set location-specific standards through a review with an EIA et cetera?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u351	As I said in the committee debate last week, precisely because municipalities now need to test location-specific, this is perhaps an even more careful test than we had before. I think that's good. All kinds of aspects are taken into account. As we discussed in the committee debate: by agreeing on common principles, it gives us a little more confidence that this will happen in an orderly manner throughout this interim phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u352	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u353	The motion in part No. 986 was spoken-out. The motion in part No. 987 calls on the government to return the additional VAT revenue to the citizen. I have to discourage the motion because we are looking at the burdens in full in the spring decision-making process. The motion in part No. 988 calls on the government to present best practice on regional energy strategies. We already do, so judge Room. The motion in part No. 989 calls on the spring decision-making process to look at the impact of the rising energy bill on vulnerable low and middle incomes. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 990 calls for a vision of green industrial policy to be presented this year. I'll give you that motion as well. The motion in part No. 991 calls on the government to introduce a moratorium on new biomass plants. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. As I indicated the debate: until there is a phasing-out path for subsidies on biomass, I will continue to implement the Van Esch motion and I will not issue any new decisions. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 992 requests that all plans and developments around new wind turbines be stopped. I don't recommend that motion. Location-specific considerations are now being made. This is also done carefully at local level. The motion in part No. 993 calls on the policy programme to give priority to energy independence from non-free countries. I very much agree with that, so judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 994 calls on the Commission to ensure that low and middle income groups do not, on balance, deteriorate financially from climate policy. In today's debate, too, I did not want to give that kind of guarantee to everyone. We are committed to that, but it is not a 100% guarantee. So I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 995 calls on the Commission to examine how sustainability subsidies can be made more accessible to low-income households and the possibility of involving income-dependent subsidies. The last part in particular means that I must discourage this motion. Income-dependent subsidies are complex and in the opinion of EZK and Finance are not feasible. I have today embraced all the suggestions made by the Chamber to focus our efforts on people with smaller wallets and people living in bad homes. Then the motion to part No. 996. Mrs Simons is requesting an emergency plan. I think we have had a good debate on this. I understand your call for urgency and explanation as to why this climate approach is necessary. However, I would like to use my limited capacity to create the 2030 plan. So I dissuade this motion, but I understand your encouragement in my direction. The motion in part No. Mr Stoffer's 997 calls on the government to have the non-EMU-relevant burden of climate action reflected and to inform the Court of Justice of this within six months. The passing on of non-EMU-relevant burdens makes sense in order to understand the full burden effect of the coalition agreement measures. These are, for example, measures aimed at standards in specific sectors. I am still working with my colleagues on the development of these standards in the overall climate and energy programme. The calculation of non-EMU-relevant charges requires further analysis. First the elaboration of these measures, then more detailed analysis, and I have to do so in collaboration with the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment, and the CPB, the Central Planning Bureau. I am prepared to discuss with both planning agencies whether such a transfer is possible. I can inform you of the outcome of that conversation by May at the latest. I would ask Mr Stoffer to hold this motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u354	He does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u355	Mr. Chairman. Two more motions from BBB. The motion in part No. 998 calls on the Commission to take account of the risk of carbon leakage and to take it seriously in the context of climate action in agriculture. When it comes to agriculture, we look at both the climate targets and the nitrogen targets for a good integrated approach. It is important that we do so to remove the land from the lock when it comes to nitrogen. We are, of course, trying to avoid carbon leakage in the breadth of our climate policy, but I cannot deliver it as specifically as Mrs van der Plas asks. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Finally, the motion in part No. 999. He asked the cabinet for a plan of action to get a picture of the actual emissions of industrial companies. We already have a system with the Dutch Emission Authority in which we measure emissions on the chimney. Furthermore, industry must of course also comply with environmental standards and encourage environmental services in our country to maintain them. I do not see any added value in the point Mrs Van der Plas is asking, so I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u356	Very good. A brief question from Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u357	This motion is about the fact that a lot of industry simply doesn't know what they're releasing. This is well known from agriculture to far behind the decimal point. I have tried to explain this in the debate. In this way, proportionate measures are lacking. We don't know about a lot of industry at all what they emit. I'll just file the motion, but I'll ask the Minister to take a good look at it. It is always said that everyone must abide by that, but a lot of industries do not even have to give up. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u358	I'll take that. I continue to discourage this motion, but I understand the call to ensure that we do our best to contribute to CO reduction in a proportionate manner across all sectors. That's what we want to map out as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u359	Fine. So much for this debate. I thank the Minister. It was a long exercise today, but he went through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u360	We're still voting on the remaining 24 motions. We are making up for Mrs Leijten and Mrs Teunissen on World Women's Day, 8 March. Then we shall vote on all the motions. That happens to be the first Tuesday after recess. I should never have done this. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u361	Mr President, I will also congratulate you on 8 March on International Women's Day...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u362	That makes my day all right!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u363	... because that's also a holiday for men.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-23-tweedekamer-5.u364	For all of us! So much for this debate. I'm gonna suspend for a few moments and then we're gonna talk about the Start note.
