ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	We continue in one movement with the Socially Responsible Purchases Act Youth Act and Wmo 2015 (35816). We have eight speakers from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	The first speaker is Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. She has requested ten minutes and we are going to listen to her. I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to finally talk to this new Secretary of State in plenary about youth care. It is a very technical part, namely procurement and procurement, but it is no less important. Before I begin the content of this law, I would like to make a broader general point. We are now discussing a law that has already been tabled by the predecessor of the predecessor of this Secretary of State. That was Minister De Jonge then. This law was already part of a number of laws at the time which should improve youth care a number of years after decentralisation. For example, the Law amending residence principle was also part of this, as was the now famous law improving availability care for young people, which has been referred to a great deal. In all kinds of letters we read: I answer, but first let us wait for this bill. But that proposal has still not been submitted to the Chamber. Whether you are in favour of or against these laws, the aim of these laws is to address the bottlenecks and problems that have arisen since decentralisation and to improve the system. Unfortunately, since the adoption of the Law amending the residence principle in January 2020, it has remained silent in that area of law. Corona broke out. Then the cabinet fell. The formation lasted a long time. But in the meantime, the problems in the youth care sector only increased and the waiting lists got longer. The staff shortage also increased. Institutions for heavier care fell, while providers for light care came out of the ground like mushrooms and made huge profits. Municipalities and Empire fought over money. An arbitration committee had to be set up. He made a statement which the cabinet subsequently did not fully comply with. As a result, the reform agenda, which is intended precisely to tackle these systemic problems, is now still at a standstill. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, we've lost time for the past two years. We're still losing a lot of time. We are losing time to discuss and tackle seriously the problems faced by both young people and parents, youth care workers, providers, municipalities and the Empire, in fact everyone. We are losing time to finally achieve the goal we all want, namely that young people are given the right care and the right help and that attention is paid to them. That's why it's nice that we're discussing this law today. The law may not be ideal and it does not solve all the problems either, but the law is trying to solve something, and that at least means something of progress. I hope that there will soon be many plans and legislative proposals to improve youth care. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State a few questions. What about the process surrounding the reform agenda? Is that completely quiet or is something happening? Is there any talk with the VNG, with the municipalities, to get them back to the table? What is the response of the Secretary of State to the youth reform agenda entitled "Our youth deserves better" which healthcare providers, professionals and clients themselves have prepared and offered this week to Rijk and municipalities? When will there be a reaction from the government on how it intends to implement Mr Rosenmöller's motion on the reform of youth care adopted in the First Chamber? Because the deadline for this was set in the motion on 15 April. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the law. As I said, I think this law is a step in the right direction. I do wonder whether the law goes far enough, because it is no secret that GroenLinks is not in favour of the procurement of youth care and WMO aid. In 2018, my colleague Ellemeet and SGP colleague Van der Staaij submitted an initiative law to remove this public procurement obligation for the social domain. I actually have to say that they started it then, because they also ran into European legislation, just like this bill. And yet I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that broader question. As far as he is concerned, is it desirable to devote this kind of care to him? I read that he intends to abolish these kinds of routes in Europe. I would like to know what the state of play is on this matter. One more step: shouldn't it be the case that we shouldn't actually have to deal with the heavier care, such as youth protection, by means of public procurement at all? I'd like to hear a reflection on this from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. This law ensures that the obligation to award on the basis of the EMFI criterion "the most economically advantageous tender' is deleted from the Youth Act and the Wmo 2015. When municipalities opt for an enlightened regime, they no longer need to request and assess offers. Now we are getting signals that it is still unclear for many field parties how to interpret the law on this point. It is of course very important that you not only know what is on paper, but also how to interpret it. Because if the award criteria are dropped, does the municipality, after negotiation with different providers, make an offer that suppliers then choose or not to choose? Or is it still the other way around, so that providers make an offer to municipalities? That is, of course, a bit of a complicated question; I understand that. But it is an important question, because we want to know how this bill should be interpreted in practice. Mr. Chairman. The government hopes to reduce the number of open house procedures by allowing the enlightened regime. The government considers these procedures undesirable for this kind of concern, but they are not prohibited. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State why not. Because it becomes very clear, also from the explanatory memorandum to the bill, that the government considers this undesirable. Then why didn't they choose to ban this kind of thing? Can the Secretary of State also explain the added value of open-house procedures? Have such procedures not also led to an explosion in the number of providers per municipality? In particular, I am talking about the high number of light care providers with high profits. Can the Secretary of State explain whether there is a link between this problem and open house procedures? Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about what exactly is going to be regulated by this bill for employees working in an institution. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that short-term contracts and uncertainty, often in connection with procurement, can lead people to leave the sector? What does this bill do about it? And what's arranged for young people if a municipality doesn't go through with an institution? We know that it is downright detrimental to the development of young people, who have sometimes already been removed from home, if they are very often forced to move from institution to institution or from foster home to foster home. But how is their position taken into account in this process and what is being arranged differently than before? For before this there was a duty of care, but I heard from many stories of young people, but also from providers and aid workers, that this was not always respected. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second part of the law on the provision of real prices for the Youth Act. Can the Secretary of State explain why national tariffs are not chosen, since when real prices are agreed, the municipality has to re-examine each time what that real price is? This is done by agencies, which in turn entails a great deal of coordination and litigation costs. In this Chamber, too, there is a wide-ranging desire to ensure that youth care money really goes to youth care and not to all kinds of bureaucracy around it, especially if that is something that can be avoided. Staff costs are the same throughout the country, as the staff have the same collective agreement. That is why we do not understand why we do not work with a national rate. I wonder how the Secretary of State sees that. After that, Mr. Chairman. I've looked at a number of accounts from various youth care institutions. I see that almost all directors and supervisors are very close to that legal ceiling that is regulated by the Top Income Standards Act. It bothers me, because care money is meant for care. In some cases, I wouldn't know why drivers, but also supervisors, should earn tens of thousands of euros or even a few tons when it comes to care money and we also know that staff had to fight for a very long wage increase. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether municipalities can set their own limits. Can they agree, for example, in such a tender procedure, on what the top incomes of such an institution should be and what boards of directors and supervisors should be able to earn? I'm curious about that. Then I have another question about centres that offer national expertise and sometimes have to conclude contracts with several municipalities. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he agrees with us that some specialist knowledge is so important that it should not depend on procurement procedures or on contracts that municipalities have or have not concluded by chance. Does he agree with me that it is far from possible for all young people to receive the right help because this expertise disappears, and that this is particularly true for young people who are suffering from extra difficulties and who are sometimes already in a long run, who have multiple diagnoses and are therefore unable to receive the right help? Does he agree with me that we should also arrange nationally for expertise for specialist centres to be maintained? Mr. Chairman. Care for young people depends on the municipality where a younger person lives. Some municipalities have that in order, but there are also municipalities where it is better not to live when you are young and have mental problems. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to finish. My last point and questions are about the position of council members. Since the decentralisation in 2015 I have been in the city council myself, council members have been given a lot of work, but they do not always have the necessary expertise in the house and that is not possible at all. But it is precisely at a point such as youth care that it is important for the board to take part in decision-making on healthcare providers and to take part in consideration of contracts. It is important that council members sometimes also have a critical reply to aldermen who want to conclude contracts. What will the Secretary of State do to ensure that knowledge of this law also reaches the council members? Mr President, I will conclude. The bill is a step in the right direction, but it certainly does not solve all the problems. Things such as tariff differentiation and profit maximization should also be discussed in the future. I hope that we will do so quickly in the reform agenda and later in the Chamber. I look forward to all the legislative proposals we'll get.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. Then Mrs Maeijer from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal concerns changes of a more technical nature, which, for example, simplify procedures for the procurement by municipalities of certain forms of care for young people or of social support. That makes us talk about care in the end. Take care of young people, take care of people who need support. Therefore, before I go into the content of the legislative amendments, I would really like to know from the Secretary of State when we can finally expect the plans and proposals that hopefully will put an end to the problems of youth care. What about the waiting lists? What about the deadlock on the Youth Reform Agenda? This cabinet, this Secretary of State, is there now, if I am right, almost 100 days and for the time being we have only seen a cut in the coalition agreement, a constant deadlock of the reform agenda, massive protests by youth care workers and distress calls from young people and parents. What is the message from the Secretary of State to all those young people, parents and professionals who are still stuck and have to work with a system that has major problems? Having said that, about this bill. Municipalities are responsible for the implementation of the Youth Act and the Social Support Act. They have a large part of the work carried out by third parties and to that end they conclude agreements with those third parties or grant subsidies. If I sum it up correctly, the cabinet has, with these legislative changes that are now in the pipeline to make purchasing practice more consistent with the nature of the social domain and the practice of youth aid and support. To this end, three amendments are proposed. The first proposal deletes a rule, making it possible to opt for an enlightened procurement regime without the obligation to request and assess tenders. This simplifies the process, that's the idea. And that is good, but how does that relate to another part of this bill, which, if necessary, allows a delegation clause to lay down rules on a number of legitimate due diligence requirements? To what extent are these rules going to press the workload? How many municipalities have actually indicated that they are going to use this simplified procedure? By reducing the requirements of the procurement procedure, the cabinet also hopes to reduce the number of so-called open-house procedures in which a municipality contracts every provider that meets the requirements. But why does this cabinet maintain this possibility if the Secretary of State does not consider this way of municipal procurement of, in particular, more complex forms of care for young people or social support to be desirable? In what cases does the Secretary of State consider this procedure to be appropriate? Mr. Chairman. We see that in 2018 90% of the municipalities bought care in this way. We can also see that there is a trend for the municipalities to move away from the open house system and work with fewer providers. In the meantime, there are about 6,000 youth care providers. In Gelderland, the number of healthcare providers has increased tenfold in recent years. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many municipalities still purchase care in this way? Mr. Chairman. It is not our intention to allow municipalities to work with a limited number of providers. There must always be freedom of choice and sufficient diversity, but it must be qualified, experienced and well-trained providers, where, on the other hand, there is room for new and innovative providers. How does the Secretary of State see this and how does this law guarantee this? Does he share the concerns of the smaller institutions on this point? And how does the Secretary of State ensure throughout the process that the waiting lists continue to rise? Mr. Chairman. The whole administrative circus of accountability and procedures around care has become far too large. If the Secretary of State is still working on simplifying procedures and abolishing obstructive rules, does he have any idea what obstacles, administrative burdens and procedures this cabinet period can still be removed, unified or standardised in order to reduce the high workload? Is there now, for example, a national standardisation in the ICT systems and the accountability requirements of municipalities? What does the Secretary of State think about a longer contract duration in the tender? I believe that the SP has also tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr. Chairman. The present legislative amendment also allows the Cabinet to include cost elements from which the real price should be constructed. It is actually very sad to note that this should be laid down by law because healthcare providers, partly for competition reasons, sometimes charge below cost prices, and municipalities are apparently not willing or able to pay the cost. That financial considerations outweigh quality, especially when it comes to care, is very worrying. In order to continue to provide quality care, it is necessary to agree on real prices, taking into account the complexity and gravity of the work. In the end, not only the healthcare providers are in severe weather, but the care providers, the children, the elderly and the vulnerable families are the victims. Finally, Mr President. There is one major problem that remains that this legislative amendment will not solve. This is the European Procurement Directive, which ensures that the costs of implementing the procurement of care for young people and social support are disproportionate. As we read, Dutch Cabinets have been working for years to make an exception to these EU rules, but this has not been possible so far. Why not and what has been done in concrete terms? What exactly is the procedure to change this? Can't we just say we don't do it anymore? Shouldn't it have been anticipated in advance what problems this directive posed to our concern? What exactly does the current Secretary of State intend to do to ensure that this is finally settled? Mr. Chairman. Hit the fist on the table, I'd like to say to the Secretary of State. We are one of the largest net contributors in the European Union. The European Commission, which now seems to be busy evaluating this directive, is there because of this cabinet, at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer. Remind them of that. So put the fist on the table and make sure that our concern is not burdened with all kinds of nonsense EU rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We regularly ask questions in this Chamber about the abuses that we see in municipal care. This is, of course, about the deficits in youth care, about the closure of institutions and about the long waiting lists, which the children who need the most intensive care are still very often affected. We also often ask about the abuses of projects, for example when it comes to protected living in the Wmo. Then it turns out that it is still very easy for malicious people to become a healthcare provider and to make money quickly on the backs of vulnerable people. We know the poignant stories of young women seeking protection but ending up in a real hellhole, in places where violence is the order of the day, where there is hardly any care and guidance. Of course, that is where the supervision of care falls. Of course, we have often discussed this with this government. The SP has a lot of ideas on how municipal supervision should be improved, but we are not getting anywhere in that respect. I'm sure we'll talk about that some other time. We believe that the inspection, the IGJ, should also be able to supervise municipal care. Maybe the Secretary of State can respond to that again. Apart from good supervision, of course, it starts with the question of how we organise care as well and as wisely as possible. How do we prevent organisations from working alongside each other and that profits become more important than caring for and supporting people? Municipalities can organise their care and support in three ways. They can do it themselves, for example by starting their own organisation, for example, to carry out household care. The SP actually thinks that's a really good idea. This is how you can ensure that everyone who needs care gets it. As a municipality, you can also ensure that the people who do the work, the caregivers, get well paid and get a permanent contract. In other words, you can ensure that there is more certainty for caregivers and for those who depend on care. How does the Secretary of State view that? Does he see the benefits of that? Wouldn't this be the most practical and easiest solution for larger parts of the Wmo? Is he also willing to talk to congregations to see how we could do this much more often and in what way? The second way to organise care by a municipality is through grants. The municipality decides which healthcare providers or youth care providers will provide the care and in cooperation with the municipalities, these providers will then do so, of course with that subsidy. Can the Secretary of State explain why this method is being used so little? We often hear that if a municipality grants a subsidy, it can make too few mandatory agreements or enter into legal obligations with different providers. My question to the Secretary of State is: is that actually true? Are there ways to come up with good agreements with grant schemes without having to participate in the entire tendering circus? If that's possible, why doesn't it happen much more often? Can the Secretary of State also explain how local care is currently regulated in other countries, including within the European Union? We have also asked about this in the written questions and did not actually receive a proper answer. That's annoying, because those answers are important to us. In fact, we have the feeling that it is often the case that we want to be the best boy in the Netherlands when it comes to market forces, competition and procurement. I do not at all rule out the fact that in a number of other countries this is being dealt with in a much more relaxed and more flexible way. If that happens, we would like to know, so that we may be able to do so. The impression with the SP is, above all, that the many contracting entities we see everywhere is mainly a result of the market thinking that still dominates our concern. The belief that the market solves problems still stands with many parties, even in this House of Representatives, even though it is precisely market forces and competition that have made care much more expensive and bureaucratic. After all, care does not at all meet the conditions that would apply to a normal, genuine free market. You don't want anyone to just start caring in a city. You also do not want competition within the municipality on prices and rates. The care for one is very different from the care for the other. I see that the entire D66 group is storming in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	Especially for you, I've heard. Especially for you!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'm getting all warm inside. It's about countering market forces in care...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	And right away they're coming in! They're going to bet the wave for you, too, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	That's super good. Keep the ears and eyes open: this will be a very wise and advisable lecture for the D66 group. Mr. Chairman. Care and support are about the human dimension and not about the laws of the market. Yeah, you guys got that? Very good. Then there should be no market, as some, for example the whole of the D66 group, still do. Mr. Chairman. This government, like previous Cabinets-Rutte, does not come up with the actual proposals to put market thinking into care, to take profits out of care and to abolish competition. This is particularly true in the municipalities where competition and market thinking have very nasty effects. It has just been mentioned that there are municipalities where many hundreds of different providers have been contracted with the municipality, in the Wmo but also in youth care. Infamous are the open house constructions in which anyone who raises his finger and meets the conditions gets a contract with the municipality. This results in a total proliferation of different types and types of providers; a proliferation that often means that many providers turn up for the light forms of care and support in the Wmo and youth care. At the same time, we see that the people who need the most intensive care are getting the short cut. As far as the market is concerned, you operate there where the easiest way to make the money is to do so. For this reason, the SP wants to move away from market forces in healthcare and thus from procurement. They create more bureaucracy, not only for the municipalities, but also for the various providers. Procurement, especially in the case of short-term contracts, also creates uncertainty. Older people don't know if their regular help is gonna be here in six months. Procurement also creates uncertainty for people working in household care. It is so important for them that this uncertainty should stop, because their important work should not depend on flex contracts and uncertainty. The SP has also often argued here that when another healthcare provider takes over the care, it is necessary to consider as much as possible whether the trusted home care employee can stay with its clients. That is an important point. How does the Secretary of State view that? Is the Secretary of State prepared to include clearly in the hand-out he makes for the municipalities that when a takeover by another provider is taken over, the permanent couples are preserved and not pulled apart? Mr. Chairman. It has just been mentioned by the PVV: the SP indeed has an amendment ready to do something about these contracts, so that there will be fewer changes in the Wmo and in youth care and so that we will work with long-term contracts, for example with a minimum of two years when it comes to Wmo care and a minimum of three years when it comes to the Youth Act. Mr. Chairman. Today, the cabinet is presenting a proposal to simplify procurement. An "enlightened regime" called the "Under Secretary of State" I found it particularly funny to hear from the mouth of a Christian Union executive that we are going to work with an "enlightened regime." Municipalities no longer need to select suppliers on the basis of the "economically most advantageous tender', as it is called. In ordinary language, this means that it is no longer a matter of merely the lowest price, but that municipalities can also make a choice between providers on other terms. This is a step in the right direction as far as the SP is concerned, but of course it does not go far enough. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to remove municipal care entirely from the Procurement Act. The Secretary of State may say in a moment that this cannot be done and that you cannot just ignore the European directives and not just ignore the Procurement Act. But we believe that this can be done, not least because the cabinet itself, including the predecessors of this Secretary of State, has said on several occasions that, even within the European Union, no one really thinks that local and municipal care and youth care are cross-border markets to which this type of procurement should apply. As far as we are concerned, we must also stop wanting to be the best boy in the class. Let's just do it. Let's just get rid of those tenders and see what happens. My estimate is that there will be no roosters, because nobody in Brussels or in Europe really thinks that you should work with Portuguese, French or Austrian suppliers in the Wmo. Mr. Chairman. We can do more to prevent people and companies with the wrong intentions from becoming healthcare providers in municipal care. For as long as there is the possibility to make a profit on the care and to take this profit out of care, there will be people who will become a healthcare provider with wrong intentions. That is why the SP has been calling for years for the ban on profit distributions to be extended. Nurses and hospitals shouldn't be making any profits right now. That's very good, because that's how you make sure that money that's meant for care stays in care. As far as the SP is concerned, we should also do that for the Wmo, i.e. municipal care, and youth care. That is why we have tabled an amendment on that point today. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to this amendment. We think it would be wise to do this. This is how you ensure that people who do not have the right intentions to start a municipal care institution go somewhere else and do not start fraudulent practices. Mr. Chairman. As in the Wmo, the Secretary of State wants to work with real rates in youth care. But what certainty does this give that healthcare providers will actually be properly paid for the important work they do? How are the real rates already in place within the Wmo actually going at the moment? What we hear from them is that they also very often cause a lot of fuss, a lot of discussion and a lot of bureaucracy. It makes sense: healthcare providers need to be paid for the work they do. This also means that the municipality will take into account the real costs incurred in such an institution and which rate then goes with it. But everyone here does feel that if one has an interest in high rates and the other, namely the municipality, has an interest in low rates, you really don't automatically come together in the middle. In practice, this leads to a lot of expensive agencies being hired to investigate what is actually a real price. Cost studies are being carried out. An expensive consultant's office will then see how much the building costs and how much it costs and how much it costs. That's gonna cost a lot of money. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how much money is being thrown over for that kind of investigation. How can we prevent that? Wouldn't it make much more sense to just work with nationwide rates so you can put an end to all that bullshit? Mr. Chairman. We can do this both for the Wmo and for youth care: a national rate, so everyone knows where he is going. So you are no longer funding the consultants, but the people who actually care for our young people, our children and our elderly. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, it is striking that the government wants the real rates to apply for the time being only to the main contractors who are going to provide the care. But the risk of this law is that there will be many more subcontractors who will actually carry out the care under the main contractor. These subcontractors are not necessarily subject to the real rate. That's a bad thing, because you don't want these big suppliers getting their asses kicked out of the municipality, and then pulling and milking the subcontractors at much lower rates. The government must therefore ensure that all providers of youth care and the Wmo receive the normal, logical and real rates. We have also tabled an amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, the SP is concerned about the proliferation of providers that we now see in municipal care. But it has not been said that this bill is going to reduce this proliferation. In fact, where we now see that the municipality is concluding contracts with different suppliers, sometimes there are far too many suppliers, we are going to see that bureaucracy is going to move from the municipality to the various main contractors who are going to do the Wmo care or youth care. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State what he's gonna do about it. How's he gonna stop that? He therefore supports the proposal made by the SP... It's a bit clumsy, but that amendment is still in the making. It's not quite finished yet. However, today we are going to come up with an amendment to ensure that all healthcare providers working in youth care and in municipal care, in the Wmo, are given a duty of notification, so that the municipality at least knows who is actually providing care within the boundaries of the municipality. We already know this from the Act of Accession healthcare providers, the Wtza. We treated this law a few years ago with Hugo de Jonge. It provides for a reporting obligation for providers working under the Health Insurance Act, for example, the care of the neighbourhood, but also hospitals and all kinds of providers. This notification requirement also applies, for example, to long-term care, such as nursing homes. This way you always know which new providers have joined. The municipality always knows who is at work, so that supervision can be organised properly. It happens quite often now that a municipality has to supervise, but actually doesn't even know exactly which providers are active within the municipality. We think it would be wise to do so that way. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he supports that. Mr. Chairman. In recent years we have seen that important decisions in care are increasingly taken not in the municipality, but in the region. Mrs Westerveld just made that point. That is a problem, because it puts municipal councils at a distance and has very little to say about the procurement, the impact and supervision of care. You can appeal to your alderman about what goes wrong in local care, but if that alderman then made appointments within a regional context, then you will be in contact with your alderman, but he says: "These appointments have been made in the region. We can't just change it. Then I have to deal with all the other ten congregations first." We all know that there will then be nothing of that. That alderman can say "I really want to do this," but he also knows that he will have to convince nine colleagues from other municipalities. After this, the council members in the municipality themselves draw the shortest conclusion. They do have a controlling role, but they are not at all capable of carrying out that control task at all. Now the legislative proposal we are discussing today may make it easier to tender, but how does it now relate to the influence that the city council must have on the organisation of care? Will the Secretary of State also ensure that democratic control, democratic supervision of local care, is better and properly regulated? Finally, on the financial implications, I am really done. The Secretary of State writes in the explanatory statement to the law that we deal with that there will be no financial consequences as a result of this law. We thought that was quite an enigmatic remark, because if you say that you are going to calculate real rates in youth care, then how could that have no financial consequence? It is difficult to imagine, and we wonder how that would work. The Secretary of State says this will mean that one provider will get some lower rates and the other a little higher. Very coincidentally, that's going to be exactly zero. That seems very strong to us. If you assume that the deficits in youth care are high now, it is almost impossible or there is a good chance that, if you make a real calculation of the costs they incur, this will lead to higher expenditure. If so, the Secretary of State must be honest about that, too. Otherwise, you are going to introduce a law that will only lead to a much higher expenditure on youth care in one or two years' time, when it is fully in force. Then everyone's gonna say, "Oh, how did that happen?" Well, that could have happened because we have to discuss it properly now. So I ask the Secretary of State: be honest and transparent in this, and give us a fair picture of the financial consequences of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you. For the record, you have made us happy with three amendments to item No. 8, piece No. 9 and Item No. 10. But the joy of celebration is not yet complete, you are going to come up with a fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yes. They have all become very good amendments. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	I trust you in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	And there's another one on the way. That is indeed about the obligation to report. In fact, in parallel with the Wtza, we want municipal care to have a duty for everyone who provides care within the municipal boundaries, so that the municipality always keeps an eye on who does exactly what and you can check it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	And when are we going to receive that from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	That depends a little on the internal bureaucracy in this building, but I hope soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	You need to put your policy officer to work, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	No, it has already done a good job; it is now in the legislative office. Five minutes, he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	Five minutes, perfect. Then we will receive that in our mailboxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yes. That's really fast. Then hopefully the Secretary of State will be able to respond to that. If that doesn't work, at least he can respond to the idea an sich, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	You think along with him; that is always appreciated. Speaking of festivities, it's time for a real maiden speech. We always think that's a good time. We are very happy to listen to Mrs Sahla's contribution. I shall then suspend for a moment the congratulations and flowers, assuming that Mr Paternotte has actually provided a bouquet. I shall therefore suspend my congratulations at the end of the speech. I call Mrs Sahla.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. It feels like an honor to have my maiden speech in your Chamber today to tell you how I'm trying to fill this office in the years to come. My guiding principle in my Chamberwork is and will always be: to offer equal opportunities to everyone in the Netherlands. In this respect, equality of opportunity begins with trust, the confidence of the government that residents get the best out of themselves if you give them the opportunity to do so, and the confidence of residents themselves that they can move forward if they seize those opportunities. That trust of the government in its inhabitants and vice versa begins with a government that listens. That draws my story in politics. That story began 42 years ago, when I was born in The Hague, a different The Hague than now. "He who was born for a dime is never a quarter" was not only a stupid and chewed out proverb, but also a reality for many people. Even though that opportunity inequality was visible everywhere in my environment, in school and in the neighborhood, it was not addressed at that time. That insight didn't come to me until after I became a mother myself. Then it became painfully clear to me that success is not just about happiness or coincidence but about the opportunities you get, that inequality is not a natural phenomenon but a political outcome, and that your chances in life are related to the numbers of your zip code, the pennies in your parents' wallet and the quality of education in your neighborhood. In my Netherlands, to which I have the right to co-form from this House, equal opportunities are central: an equal chance of a flourishing start of life through good childcare and the best education, an equal chance of a happy life also for people with disabilities, and an equal chance of a beautiful old age through loving care in nursing homes. I'm standing here fighting for that. The fact that I'm standing here actually started with a simple e-mail back from an alderman. It was an alderman who showed in that e-mail that he really listened to me, listened to Transvaal and wanted to solve our problem. A so-called black school became the key to success. I thought it could be a listener's ear from politics. Mr. Chairman. There's work to be done. It's time for action now. Now I want to listen to my ear, spread my wings in places I've never been before. For example, I want to use the confidence I have received from the electorate to create equal opportunities for everyone in our country. Because we are working on an optimistic Netherlands, with a view to the future, with as a compass our ideals of freedom for the individual and radical equality of opportunity, with attention and understanding for those who are stuck or unable to come along. Listening to people is also the basis for me in dealing with this bill. It means that the client is central to me. The client of course benefits from less control pressure, so that care professionals can mainly work on better care rather than paperwork. Mandatory European procurement is a thorn in the eye of many people in the care sector. So that's what we need to look at. At the same time, it is also in the interest of the client that he or she can get the best care and direct himself. We still have a few questions about that. It starts with the question of how client organisations are involved in this bill. We read in the note on the basis of the report that this has not actually been the case. Is the Secretary of State prepared to engage with client organizations? I believe that their involvement is important, for example on the issue of freedom of choice. With this law, we make municipal purchasing in the social domain easier. This is important, but in some cases a heavier procurement procedure can provide a good insight into what is the best care for the best price. Let's not throw away the baby with the bathwater. How do we ensure that the correct, effective checks-and-balances are followed where necessary? Can the Secretary of State comment on how this step relates to other legislative proposals, such as the Health Care Providers Act, which are precisely trying to increase control within the care purchase, so that care money does not go to providers without proper management? I would also like to talk about open house constructions in purchasing. D66 understands the problems with open house. It is, however, very much at the heart of this legislative amendment, and we have doubts about its justification. Some experts say, for example, that open house can still provide sufficient control, provided that it is well defined what is and is not covered by youth care or Wmo. We see that municipalities are also working hard on this, despite the fact that the reform agenda is stalling. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the attention needed for that demarcation does not fall away, if municipalities in the near future mainly need to switch to a new procurement regime? What is the progress in the conversations VWS has with municipalities in this area? Isn't there the key to achieving the right price with less control pressure and control? This legislative proposal thus creates the possibility of using the light procurement regime. This meets a need, but doesn't it create additional complexity by adding a new form of procurement and perhaps more differences between municipalities in procurement forms? We asked this question in the report, but it has not been answered. We have asked for a good comparison of the regulatory burden between the open house procedure and the illuminated procurement regime provided for in this law. Why didn't that quantitative analysis take place? How is it that the Secretary of State has so clearly set out in this law the objective of reducing open-house procedures? And is it not necessary to first have a good picture of the control pressure and effects on the quality of care purchase? Is there any evaluation or monitoring of this? Many parties point out in the consultation that open house constructions should not be discouraged. What arguments does VWS have to put that as a policy objective instead of letting municipalities themselves decide how to organise their procurement? Furthermore, parties also mention a risk in the objective of reducing open-house procedures as far as possible, namely the risk that smaller care parties will no longer be eligible and thus the freedom of choice for clients will be put under pressure. Can the State Secretary justify why, in his view, the procurement law does indeed provide sufficient guarantees that these providers will continue to have a chance? Indeed, it states that municipalities may deviate from the principle that small suppliers are involved in setting minimum requirements and selection criteria. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this clause will not be used frequently without losing sight of the importance of sufficient freedom of choice for clients? It's the only way we're gonna get enough freedom of choice and put the client at the centre. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	Look, that's a maiden speech from the book. He is exactly as it should be: a personal story combined with a motivation and then in one flowing movement on to the subject, today's bill, completed with sharp questions towards the Secretary of State and quantitative analyses. Let him sweat, I'd say. That's great. It is an honor and a pleasure to be the first to congratulate you. If you come here, I'll give you a hand. Then I'll suspend to see if there are any other congratulations. Oh, I see the bouquet has appeared after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	As far as railway records are concerned, we have three more speakers to attend. After the first term of the Chamber, I shall suspend for lunch, assuming that you are still hungry after Mrs Van den Hil's contribution, of course. The next speaker is Mrs Werner from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address my colleague Fonda Sahla. It's very special to see your maiden speech and hear your story. Of course, something like that always affects me, especially when you talk about equality of opportunity. You said that people with disabilities should also participate in society, participate fully and not as a gesture. That's what gets me. I really liked to hear that. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Today we deal with the Socially Responsible Purchases Act Youth Act and Wmo, a can-determine in the Youth Act and in the Social Support Act. Municipalities can opt for the lighter procurement regime when purchasing in the social domain. For the CDA, it is clear: we are in favour of a fair and transparent way of purchasing, precisely within the social domain. We are opposed to time-consuming bureaucracy and cumbersome procedures and to a time-consuming process with a lot of Excel files and purchasing agencies. Especially when purchasing youth care and social support, old-fashioned procurement is often not the best instrument anymore. The adaptation of European rules is not easy, it appears. The law now before us is indeed an improvement. You know, Chairman, the CDA is in favour of shared responsibility, so responsibility of the municipality. A slight variant of procurement is only feasible and municipalities can only perform properly if they have a number of things in order at the outset, the Council of State, such as the policy cycle, the contracting and the implementation. That is not the case everywhere. The Secretary of State gives a hand and gives recommendations in the note on the report. The question of the CDA is whether that is enough. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The supervision of the Wmo is not well organized everywhere. This is stated by the Secretary of State in his letter on the future of the Wmo. The CDA shares this observation, but what will the Secretary of State do to get it in order? Does a defined number of providers who have been awarded a contract also help to improve supervision? I would also like a response from the Secretary of State. After all, the Council of State states that municipalities must have the place in order at the outset. That's important. Again, we can therefore conclude that this is not the case. Surveillance isn't in order. Then there's the open house procedure. My group and I think this is a two-pronged story. The government doesn't want to ban it, it wants to discourage it. In some cases, the open house procedure is appropriate, as stated in the note on the report. When does the government consider it appropriate? And what does this bill mean if in future forms of care for young people have to be bought in at regional level? In the legislative proposal Improved availability of care for young people will be developed, but do I understand that the simplified procurement procedure, i.e. this law, will apply? And can regional municipalities also agree to use the heavier tendering regime? Is the Secretary of State going to discourage this by hand-outs and so on? What exactly is the plan? The CDA sees another danger. Could fewer suppliers not lead to more subcontractors? And what does that do with supervision, prices and quality? The municipalities must pay real prices to the subcontractors. What's that about? I'd like a response from the Minister. And how sharp can a community be in the new regime and stay to refuse care cowboys? Does the CDA understand that the new procurement regime is ideally suited for this purpose? Will a selection be made of a determined number of sound providers with whom negotiations are being conducted? I'd like a confirmation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	A question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	I would like to ask the CDA if she agrees with the SP that we should keep an eye on the number of subcontractors. As far as I am concerned, we should have as little of that as possible, but at least we should have a look at it. It would be good if they reported to the church, in the sense of: hi, I do something of concern in this church; then you know in any case that I am there. Subcontractors should also be subject to the same conditions as regards tariffs. They should not be able to be squeezed by the main contractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	I also heard Mr Hijink say this and suggest it. I have to tell you, I don't think that's such a bad idea at all. I can imagine there's definitely something in there, because then you know who cares in your congregation, who they are and what they do. I'm pretty excited about that, I have to say. It is now April 2022 and it would be decided before 1 December 2021 which types of disputes could be brought before the Disputes Commission and how the Youth Dispute Settlement will be organised. My group would like to know what is going on with the Disputes Committee and which cases can and cannot be brought before it. The 2012 European Procurement Act and Directive is now being evaluated, but the desired changes will not be made in the short term. When will the Secretary of State and the Chamber see whether the European rules will be amended? That's kind of crucial. Finally, Mr President. The government has put forward this bill to make it easier for municipalities and healthcare providers, so that they spend less time on the entire paperwork of contracting. My group wants to keep track of whether this law does what it has to do and whether it will lead to measurable administrative burdens for municipalities and healthcare providers. I would like to table a motion on that in my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	A cliff pendant! Then there is Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to join in the congratulations already expressed by Mr Werner to our colleague Mr Sahla, who made a wonderful maiden speech here. She showed just so beautifully that you can participate in this country, wherever you live and wherever your cradle is, and that you can show others what drives you deeply. I think that Mr Sahla will also be a wonderful role model for a lot of boys, but certainly also for girls. I look forward to working together. Then there's the bill. To be honest, I found that a little less sparkling than that beautiful maiden speech. It's a pretty technical law. It was a lot of puzzles to see exactly what's going on. But when we go back to the essence, we talk about changes to the Youth Act and the Social Support Act. Those laws are about caring close. Occasionally you need a little support, and if that support is to be professional, it must be of good quality and come from someone who can be trusted. Precisely municipalities can see very close to what someone needs. That's why they buy this care and support. That is what we do with legal regulations, so that we know that there is quality and we know that the money paid by all of us is spent in a good way to help people who are having a hard time, whether they are young or older. But sometimes there is a lot of bureaucracy in that, we have all noticed. This bill, I believe, creates some room for an enlightened "regime"........................................................................................................................................................................................ The Christian Union sees that procurement can be an appropriate way to keep the quality sharp and to look at the cost aspect. At the same time, the system of contracting regularly works to ensure that good, trusted providers are not chosen in a new round, and that the relationship of trust between the client and the new health care provider is completely restored to zero. In that light, I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect on the duration of the contracts. The procurement law does not necessarily specify a certain time for which you have to conclude a contract, only that it should not be for an indefinite period. In municipal reality, we often see a different way of doing things. I also think that Mr Hijink's amendment reflects that. I am therefore very curious to see how the Secretary of State sees it. On the other hand, what possibilities does the Secretary of State see with this proposal for municipalities to renew contracts if the quality meets, and the provider has a network in a good way within society, within the district and the village where it operates? Can existing providers be preferred providers? Or is that complicated, and for what reason? What possibilities for improvement does the Secretary of State see in that regard? Municipalities are asking themselves whether this bill is now going to lead to a reduction in the burden. They're a little critical about that. For municipalities may not have to start a tender procedure, but they will still have to compare objectively in one way or another. And how else are you gonna do that? You also have to guarantee a fair trial. Otherwise, the judge will remind you if you didn't do that right. I am therefore curious how the Secretary of State envisages that the regulatory burden will be reduced and how he will keep an eye on it. In what way does he talk about this, first of all with the congregations, and how does he inform the Chamber about it? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the part of the bill that gives a little more substance to the principle of real prices in the Youth Act. I have some questions about the impact that that will get in the AMvB. That is a general measure of governance, for the viewers at home and for the only one who is still very much in the public gallery. The AMvB will explain which components the price will consist of. That in itself is not a higher mathematics; I can even handle that. At the same time, municipalities with a number of institutions will have to come out in good consultation on what this price should be. I wonder what that AMvB is going to mean. On what points does the Secretary of State want to steer and what does he leave to the municipalities? In any case, I read in the explanatory statement that a cost-covering price is the important precondition. What does "cost-covering" mean? And for whom? Can this mean that the inefficient management of a healthcare provider with a very large overhead is also reimbursed? Or is that standardizing from the municipality with regard to that overhead and productivity? How does the Secretary of State view that? And in what way does he help congregations to get firm in that? I'm gonna make a point, Mr. Chairman, because I see someone standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mrs Bikker rightly points out that we need to remove bureaucracy. We do not want endless negotiations between all kinds of organisations within the care sector. I think that's right. It is precisely this point of real prices that creates incredibly much consultation, expensive consultants who are going to get involved, and endless discussions about what exactly is a real price. That can be different in any municipality. Now there are many forms of care national rates: in long-term care, in medical care. Why shouldn't we do that for youth care and the Wmo, for example? Then a municipality simply knows: okay, these are the rates you charge and you have to pay to the institutions. And then these organizations know: okay, here's what we get for it. Isn't that gonna save you a lot of trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	A fair question, too. I do the youth part a little less for a while: colleague Ceder is a spokesperson so I was digging into both, but Wmo is in my portfolio. I also see court cases on how this price is to be achieved and how it is complicated for municipalities to hold on to their point, especially if it is a very large provider. So I see the point. I'm also curious how the Secretary of State thinks we should deal with that. We have now evaluated those real prices for the Wmo at least once. At that point the conclusion was: for now we are not going to change it very excitingly, but we must keep in mind that municipalities, as Mr Hijink rightly points out, will not perish in a new form of bureaucracy. That evaluation was in 2020, if I remember correctly. No one's gonna make a call, so I guess that's true. But I think it's a good thing that we'll have a look at that in the short term. If this is a recurring point, I expect new steps at some point. Mr. Hijink just goes a little further. He already says: everything has to go back to national prices. We have also used this decentralisation with the idea that it should be locally appropriate tailor-made. Then it matters whether you conclude the contract in Tietjerksteradeel or in Utrecht Kanaleneiland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	The practice is that it doesn't really matter very much. We're a small country. At most in some regions the buildings are a little more expensive or cheaper. You could correct that. But there are national collective agreements, so the employees also all earn fairly similar salaries. So if you're just looking at the content of the care... It's not for nothing that we don't make that so incredibly complicated in all other forms of care. With the same argument you can say that a nursing home in Oost Groningen is different from a nursing home in the city centre of Amsterdam. And yet there are national tariffs being proposed and organized, allowing you to cut off all that bureaucracy. Why wouldn't we do that in social services?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	You can sometimes say in an answer that the glass is half empty and you can say that the glass is half full. In my case, I would really like to say to Mr Hijink: my glass is half full, and this is what I want to say. I say it very clearly, for example with regard to overhead. I put the question to the Secretary of State: how do you give municipalities any tools to make the price real? I mentioned to Mr Hijink the example of a court case in which the municipality says very much: in the price you ask, the overhead is too high. It's complicated for the municipality to get that down. Especially if it's a major provider, we can see that it's hard to send. So I stand beside you when we talk about the problem of how we make them reduce it. I am just not making the big leap that Mr Hijink is making, because I also see what the idea of decentralisation was. But I do say that I will take a very careful look at this with you. So I am not saying yes and amen to your amendment, but I am not saying no, get out of here. That's a pretty nice step for you, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	Yeah, that's a nice opening. We'll hold it. Mrs Westerveld is still at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	I referred to the phrase "the big leap." 'Cause is it a big leap? Is it not also our job here to ensure that people working in the public sector can do their job properly, that there are minimum rates and that working conditions are properly regulated? Do we not also have the task of preventing a huge bureaucracy here? And is Mr Hijink's proposal not therefore also a step in the right direction? Is it not our job to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	I also think that this bill is a step in the right direction. We're going to an enlightened regime. We also say very clearly to municipalities that they have more freedom to organise these procurement procedures more lightly than has been the case so far. That's a step. I think it is important that we take that step together. It's been a long time. I believe that either Mr Hijink or Mrs Westerveld... No, it was Mrs Westerveld. She outlined how long this journey has lasted. Frankly, I would like to go even further. I'll get to that in a minute. I would very much like to get rid of the European Procurement Directive. That would, of course, be the most wonderful solution. I'm going to ask some sharp questions about that to the Secretary of State, if you'll allow me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	We're holding on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Well, that's good. Fasten your seatbelts. I have one small question about the real price of the AMvB Wmo. Everyone at home is gonna drop out, but after this it's gonna be more fun, folks. It was evaluated in 2020. I think it is a good thing that we really have a closer look at this in the short term, also with regard to what we are doing now in the Youth Act. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how he has that view and how he keeps up with these bottlenecks and developments, also in the light of what I just exchanged with colleagues Hijink and Westerveld. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the current European Procurement Directive. It has an enlightened regime for purchasing care for young people and social support. All municipalities have to do is make a pre-announcement notice. But in practice it is not such an enlightened procedure. We see that in a lot of places. In practice, it is above all a great deal of work for nothing, because research by Deloitte - that is another study by Deloitte - shows that there is no European market at all. I would like to ask how we can achieve an exception to the European Procurement Directive for these matters as soon as possible. The State Secretary has already indicated in the reply that there is an evaluation of the Directive at the end of 2022 and that negotiations will follow on adaptation. But the government then writes that it may take a few more years for adjustments to be made. All MPs here have three more years ahead of us and want to see it all. Then "some years" is actually quite long. I understand the toughness, but I would warn against resignation or waiting. What is the government doing now, while this evaluation is ongoing? What will the government do in the further negotiations? Can the Court at least be informed about this, even if that evaluation is there by the end of 2022? And how does the government deal with that? If, in any way, the Secretary of State needs an encouragement from this Chamber to get rid of this way of European procurement, of course, we would very much like to hear it, because I believe that this is a widely shared wish, precisely because we are so keen that municipalities can manage good care very closely without European red tape, which is not necessary for anything. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	Fine, thank you. One more question from Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	Quite once, of course, with regard to all this European bureaucracy and all this European red tape, but that is what this Chamber agreed to when it unfortunately agreed to this European procurement directive. But would it not be very good if the Secretary of State once travelled to Brussels to convey the message that we do not want this interference at all in the area of care, which is a national issue? This applies not only to this directive, which we now have a lot of problems, but also to all the other areas in which the European Commission and people in Brussels now want to expand their involvement in public health. This is a national matter and must remain so. Shouldn't that just be the message in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mrs Maeijer broadens the playing field interestingly on behalf of the PVV. The Secretary of State is about his own portfolio, but I would advise him to talk about it in particular in Brussels. But as far as interference is concerned, yes, we in the Netherlands have said on many points that it is a national matter. At the time of the corona crisis, we also discovered, in terms of the procurement of mouth caps, vaccines and also means of production, for example for those vaccines, that it is sometimes very useful to make a fist with one another in Europe or to ensure that we have business here in Europe, not everything in the Netherlands, but in Europe. So I would say that I absolutely agree that we need to regulate things at national level. But there are also things that I say you need to see in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	Fine, thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van den Hil from the VVD group, while the last audience leaves the premises.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, well, unlike the D66 group, I haven't been able to get a crowd all the way down here for Mr. Hijink. So that is also a great disappointment. First of all, of course, I congratulate Mrs Sahla. We are going to work together on other fronts, including childcare. I'm really looking forward to that. We've worked together a lot and this was really beautiful. I also know The Hague a bit from the past and I feel sorry for it. Great, thank you! Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to say that I can take over the debate today from my colleague Daan de Neef, who unfortunately cannot be present because of circumstances. The VVD thinks: why be difficult when it is easy? You look at what someone needs, you look for a provider, you agree on good rates and then you follow a contract. It is cumbersome that this procedure should first be carried out by means of a European detour in order to be dealt with locally, especially when you realise that there is in fact no foreign interest in Dutch youth care or WMO services. In short, it can all be easier, better and more efficient. That is why the VVD welcomes the current legislative amendment. It is good that the cabinet is continuing its efforts to ensure that the procurement rules serve the best-suited care. In line with this, the VVD has a number of questions. How does the cabinet intend to ensure that municipalities buy the right care with this change of law? Does this change actually give you the right care at the right time for the right care provider, even in view of the heavier care? In short, does this change provide tools for a critical purchasing policy that really looks at what is crucial care and less emphasis on lighter and cheaper care? Does this change really give you a grip? How does the cabinet see that? How does the cabinet keep a finger on the pulse in terms of finances? How does the cabinet encourage municipalities to do the same? Mr. Chairman. The adjustment to facilitate the procurement process is good, but it also relies on good faith and mutual good faith from suppliers and municipalities. On the contrary, the cabinet wants dialogue to be central for the benefit of care seekers and not for extensive offers. The VVD totally agrees with this. People who need care must be at the centre. The cabinet reports that there are pilots running with the enlightened procurement regime. How's this going? The VVD gets signals from the field that not all pilots go well. In fact, we hear that pilots have been broken down, because there was no dialogue between municipalities and providers. Then the question immediately arises whether the cabinet knows this and how it reflects on it. What safety valve does the cabinet have in place to smooth out disturbed dialogues between municipalities and providers? What proposals do municipalities themselves make to improve negative experiences with pilots? It can never be the intention that people who need care should be the victims of hassle between municipalities and providers. Mr. Chairman. The VVD also has a question about contract management. The Council of State also stresses the importance of professional contract management. The VVD has submitted a motion to the latest WHO Youth on how municipalities can be helped in the procurement process if this is not yet optimal. What about all the hand-outs and help from the cabinet for the municipalities? How do municipalities help each other with good contract management? Does the VNG have a role in this? How are best practices shared? How does the cabinet tempt municipalities to spend well? If municipalities do not necessarily have the know-how for both a dialogue session and tailor-made work, the temptation is to go for an open house or to attribute a tender tender to a specific provider. How does the Cabinet intend to prevent this? It is clear that the city council must ensure that this is done, that there is a dispute committee and that the course to civil justice is possible. But it may also mean that care is temporarily not available. How is it ensured that there is always a supply of care? In the broad sense, my question is how the supervisors are prepared for this law. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about the evaluation of the European Procurement Directive, which will be completed by the end of this year. Thanks to the Netherlands and other Member States, this evaluation is also aimed at procurement for youth care and WMO services. The VVD would like the Cabinet to keep the Chamber closely involved in the progress of this review and the possible further negotiation process, especially with a view to this legislative amendment. I would ask the cabinet to send a proposal to the Chamber by then on how to further reduce barriers to proper procurement for the Youth Act and the WMO services. Mr President, I will conclude. The VVD is a strong supporter of appropriate care for people who really need care. A dialogue between providers and municipalities is beautiful, but there must be a constructive discussion. Being in good faith is also wonderful, but we must also have a plan B in hand if a dialogue is to run smoothly. I look forward to answering my questions and lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	That reply will take place at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'll suspend until 1:00 a.m. clock. Then we'll listen to the Secretary of State.
