ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall now proceed to the order of the day. We will start with a two-minute debate Research Frameworks 2021 Education Inspection and reports on consultation with the educational field. I would like to welcome our fresh Minister in trade-K and give Mr De Hoop of the PvdA the first floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last night, I saw a passionate minister for Primary and Advanced Education sitting at Beau, especially keen to improve the quality of education. Then I really do not understand that the first step then is to weaken the inspection in this way. We want to keep an eye on all the schools, not only those that we know there are problems, but also all the other schools, so that the problems do not disappear under the radar and we find out too late. If the inspection does not have sufficient resources, it should be the subject of discussion, not the reduction of the work it does. The answer to the written questions also devotes many words to the importance of that inspection. I think we all agree with that, but when the point is made, the rule that all schools are visited once every four years is abandoned. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Education Inspectorate plays an important role in identifying and resolving issues relating to quality of education and social security;]] [[Whereas visiting each school at least once every four years is an important basis on which supervision is based and essential for identifying problems that play but have not yet surfaced;]] [[noting that the rule to visit each school once every four years is likely to be abolished in the research frameworks 2021;]] [[invites the Government to have each school visited every four years by the inspection for the sake of the complete overview it produces and the signalling function of the visits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Hoop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you to Mr De Hoop. I call Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The mic isn't on yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are all kinds of attempts here to shut me up, but I'm just not gonna let that happen! Mr. Chairman. Today, for my part, no new motions, but two more questions on other previous motions. The first one is about unannounced inspection visit. In 2019, a motion of mine was unanimously adopted by this Chamber. It calls on the government to allow the Education Inspectorate to make more unannounced visits in basic education. That's important, so the inspection can really see what's going on at a school. I fully understand that these visits could be limited during the corona crisis, but at the same time the minister's predecessor said that unannounced visits would not be the norm. That is why I ask the Minister: why is this choice made? How will the Minister implement this unanimously adopted motion? And how often will the inspection be making unannounced visits in the coming period? Then a question about a more recent motion on individual reports. That motion calls for the Education Inspectorate to be instructed to always work on individual reports and signals of insecurity, so that safe education becomes the norm. That is very important, because safe education and good education are the only tasks we have here. However, the Minister says about this motion that this request is already being met because the inspection can already address individual notifications and signals. But we are getting a lot of signals that this is not happening in practice. So I'd like to get a response from the Minister. We will certainly come back to this in detail in the debate on social security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you to Mr Van Meenen. I call Mr Bishop SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I've got two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the context of transparency, it is desirable to know whether the participants in the ring consultation are in agreement with the proposed research frameworks and their amendments;]] [[noting that the inspection initially asked participants if they could agree with the research frameworks, but that it subsequently waived them;]] [[calls on the Government to ask for the inspection in the ring consultation report to account for the extent to which the participants in the ring consultation could agree with the research frameworks or that there are some objections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	This, of course, affects the basis for inspection. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the inspection in the research framework for foundational education, as part of the supervision, points out that the pedagogical-eductic vision of schools should be visible in the daily behaviour of teachers, whereas this criterion has no basis in the law, at least not in that form;]] [[noting that the Government recognises that compliance with the school plan can only be monitored, including the school's educational and educational vision, in so far as there are requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the inspection to clarify the supervisory framework on this point in order to avoid misunderstandings in schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Meenen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VIII-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. I'm looking at the minister. We'll wait for the motions to be distributed and then he'll respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you to the Members of the Chamber for the questions and the motions for resolutions following a debate I was not present to. I am going to do my best to answer in that spirit, but Mr De Hoop immediately splits me in the stomach that I took a first step. It has put my predecessor before me, but I am now used to it being my first steps as well. I'm going to do my best to answer his motion as best I can. I'll start with that, Mr. Chairman. The request is to visit the schools once every four years. I agree with what Mr De Hoop said. Good education takes place in the classroom. The inspection looks in the classroom and at the school at what is going on with the education. This is also in line with the ambition of the coalition agreement and with Mr De Hoop's call that we can intervene quickly in bad schools and guide quality. We are now working on this with the inspection on the basis of that in the coalition agreement. The aim is very explicit to see how we can increase the number of school visits in order to stimulate quality. I think that is in line with what Mr De Hoop says. It's not a money issue, because the money has to be there. There is, by the way, even if you want to do it for four years. However, as my predecessor has also pointed out, the remark is that you must focus the energy on where the studies are most needed. There's a bit of a nuance there. With a good school board, where things are in order, a sample might be enough. But if there's any real doubt whether there's much more trouble, then maybe you should be there once every two years or much more often. The question is whether a rigid four-year commitment fits best with where to be the fastest. Because of that obligation, you might be paying less attention than you want in places where you should be more. We are looking for a good balance to create space and to be able to visit more often when needed. I think we'll find each other in the wish that's what's needed where it goes wrong. There we have to do it more often than every four years and more often than now. That's what we're working on with the inspection, and I want to inform the Chamber quickly. I also want to be able to put my accents into that, I say to Mr De Hoop. That's when we can have the conversation at this point. I would ask Mr De Hoop to hold this motion so that I can send my work to the Chamber and then we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'm just thinking. I totally agree with the Minister that you should visit more often at schools that we know are in trouble. At the same time, we know that things aren't going well under the radar, so we don't know that things are going well. Just such a regular visit, once every four years, helps to prevent that. I'm looking for a way to maintain that structure, because that's really important to me. We don't want things to go under the radar. What, according to the Minister, is needed to maintain that periodic structure? I can be constructive by letting go of those four years, but it is very important that there is a structure so that things do not remain under the radar. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	I very much agree with that. I'd also say you should visit a school frequently. Every four years there's some kind of extreme. If a school is doing very well, every four or five years could be enough, but you have to have a framework. Schools that do well should not be able to disappear under the radar. Something can happen in a year. Then you may have given confidence for three or four years, but then you can't act at that time. That was also Mr Van Meenen's request for those unannounced visits. I fully share this point, but I need room to fulfill the wishes of the Chamber and the coalition agreement. I would like to make a proposal for that, which is why I request that the motion be retained. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion right now. If she's hired, I'll take her into the effect that comes to the Chamber. I think it'll help and be more powerful if we take the motion as a signal to the effect. I say to Mr De Hoop that I understand very well that you need a lower limit in terms of level, so that you are sure that everyone has been seen often enough to avoid disappearing under the radar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	Then I shall take the motion, on the understanding that the periodic test is of great importance and that I expect it to be taken with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	At the request of Mr De Hoop, I propose his motion (35925-VIII, No. 147). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Van Meenen asked two questions. His first question was about the 2019 motion on unannounced visits by the inspection. According to the frameworks, these visits can be announced and unannounced. It's a well-known fact. The 2022 Annual Work Plan announced that we would like to do these unannounced visits even more often. That is also the response to Mr Van Meenen's motion. We want to make more structural use of the instrument of the unannounced visit. That is how we intend to proceed with this motion. It is indeed a bit distorted by corona. Anyway, that's it. We don't have a lockdown right now, so now we can do this. I say to the inspection that these visits must take place. There is one comment to make, namely that the inspection does so when it thinks that it is effective and delivers the most. The inspection looks very closely at that balance. This can work very well in risk studies, where a lot is really going on. In the more regular quality studies it is useful that all the information is on the table in advance. One also has the experience that this usually works well with an announced visit. It is therefore an interaction between announced and unannounced visits. If there are more risks, an unannounced visit makes more sense. Corona may have brought that to a little bit of a standstill, but we're going to do more structuralally. That's also in the annual work plan. In doing so, we are also giving effect to the motion. By the way, the other types of research also offer more opportunities to make unannounced visits. If risks have been identified at school or if there is a recovery order, then it may also be interesting. There are different situations where that is happening now. Many of the risk studies take place with an unannounced visit. So the instrument is being used, but we're going to use it more structuralally. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a second question, also from Mr Van Meenen of D66, about reports and signals of insecurity. He said that was the heart of my heart that safe and free education is the basis. That's not self-evident. That is why close monitoring is needed. The inspection looks very closely at reports and individual signals. Those are the ones that matter. I'd almost say they're the core business of the inspection. The inspection will look at each Depending on this, the action you should do is chosen. The inspection involves serious signals and reporting patterns that affect the quality of education and therefore very clearly social security directly in the supervision. Notifications may also give rise to a contact inspector to make direct contact with the school board. That's what we're encouraging. This means that the inspection really looks at all the notifications and decides, also on the basis of the content, what action is appropriate. That is also the space that we must give the inspection in order to be able to act, I think. We have strengthened a number of things, I say to Mr Van Meenen. The notification route on the inspection website has been clarified. That is also easier to categorize the reports at the back. We have also given signals a place in the annual risk analysis, which carries out the inspection for all schools. Transparency regarding the follow-up of notifications has also been increased by paying more attention to the feedback reports. Signals and notifications are now also taken into account in the monitoring process, for example in the case of an administrative visit. So we have taken a number of steps. The coalition agreement also includes agreements on how the inspection deals with notifications, especially in the area of social security. This is now being implemented in conjunction with the inspection. I will inform the Chamber about that very soon. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the last two motions, tabled by Mr Bishop. For the first motion, in part No. 148, by Bishop and Van Meenen on the ring consultation, the following applies. It is laid down by law that the inspection shall consult with the field of education prior to the nomination of the research frameworks. That's a big good. It's like a house. That is what the inspection does several times a year. It's called the ring meeting. In February, for example, the revised research framework was discussed in great detail. The report of that discussion has also been received by the Chamber. Prior to that discussion, the parties in those rings also had the opportunity to respond to those frameworks. That has happened quite extensively. Those reports also show in detail how the different parties view the revised research frameworks, where there may be concerns or doubts, and how the inspection responds to them. That really happened quite extensively. That is why this motion has been put to the vote. In addition to the discussion and the extensive report of the statutory regulations, there is also frequent contact with organizations participating in these rings, outside that consultation. So that is a second safeguard of what this motion is asking for. With this motion, I would not suggest that we do not do it yet and are only about to do it now. We're already doing it, and I'd like to keep it that way. That makes the motion unnecessary. Well, technically, I'm gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	That all makes sense. The point is that we are seeing a change in the reports on these transfers, where instead of the peer consultation, we are going much more in the direction of: this is it and this is what you have to do with it. Our concern is that you need good supervision in the field. That is actually the intention of this motion: make sure that the inspection takes proper account of how it lands in the field. Since we have the strong impression that this seems to be under some pressure, we have tabled this motion. If that were not the case, we would not have tabled that motion. If the Minister's intention and ours are right, I could also imagine the Minister saying: okay, if that's the intention, then it's policy support, because that's what I want. That is what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yeah, but there might be a nuance in it that I'm tasting a little too. For the motion states very clearly that: to justify it is actually to report the conversation that has taken place, to give room for that conversation, to record it, to listen to each other and then to record what has come out of it. Mr Bishop talks about how it lands in the field. Of course, there's also a coloring in the field. We're writing that down now. We have plenty of time for this, not specifically in this consultation, but also in the February debate on these research frameworks and beyond. So the picture with us and with the inspection is that this is happening very extensively. That's also reflected. Of course, there can be a difference in coloring that makes whether you appreciate it or not. But how it lands in the field is of course a coloring and a specification, an appreciation. I must, of course, trust the inspection to write that objectively with those parties. I believe that Mr Bishop has an additional need which I do not recognize at the moment on the basis of what I have seen there and how extensive that is happening. I can say that we could pick that up again with those parties. For Mr Bishop does have signals that it is not in sync somewhere. At least I can promise that we'll check with those parties. But that doesn't change my judgment on this motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	That with regard to the motion in part No. 148. It's being dissuaded. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 149.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	He could hold the motion, Mr. Chairman. But I leave it to Mr Bishop to decide what he thinks is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yes. The motion in part No. 149.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	The motion in part No. Mr Bishop asked the inspection to clarify the supervisory framework and to avoid misunderstandings in schools. This also applies to the fact that the research framework is always discussed extensively with the field and that we are also talking about it from there, but here too there may be a perception that this does not lead to confusion. If Mr Bishop has these signals, I would be glad to hear them too. 'Cause those signals seem to be there with him and not with us. As a result, of course, it gives me sufficient confidence that the way in which the inspection deals with the pedagogical-eductic vision and the school plan is also sufficiently clear to the field. Otherwise, I'd like to hear it. However, if the inspection in its investigation finds that the teachers do not follow the school plan in their actions, in so far as the school plan also relates to compliance with those legal requirements, this may be an indication that the law is also not being complied with. In this case, teachers do not follow the school's plan to achieve compliance. But we do not have the indications for that from the field that Mr Bishop refers to. That is why I must advise against this motion. But I do invite him to share specific signals, so that I can also enrich my knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	Clear. That would have brought you to the end of your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	These three motions will be voted on next Tuesday.
