ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	Following on, we will proceed immediately with the next constitutional proposal, namely the Change of the Constitution, to include a provision on the right to a fair trial, House of Commons No. 35784.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	Nine speakers have signed up from the Chamber. The first of these is Mr Sneller of D66, whom I give the floor to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister's last reply was reassuring. Then it is a good thing that the amendments have been adopted by the Innovation Act Criminal Procedure, because that law will be in line with the new Constitutional Article. Mr. Chairman. A fair trial. Courtrooms were too small to keep five feet away. Public and press were no longer welcome at the plenary sessions. But what about the disclosure of justice? Cell blocks and secure walkways were too narrow and too tight to keep enough distance. Suspects should only be heard via a video connection. But the defendant's right to be present at the hearing and participate in his own trial then? Can we, via telehearing, guarantee the equality of arms, i.e. the balance in rights, enough? Large delays and long waiting times existed before the corona pandemic, but thus increased even further. But the right to deal with your case within a reasonable period of time, and the associated principle of legal certainty? When do the additions to legal aid become too low and registry fees too high to speak of meaningful access to justice? Mr. Chairman. It's a bit grim. I know that the pandemic was a unique situation, but it does show the topicality and relevance of defining the right to a fair trial. Because nowhere in the Constitution is that right of procedure: within a reasonable time and for an independent and impartial judge. Moreover, the course of justice must have an effective brake, i.e. an effective provision of rights, an effective remedy. For those who love the Dutch language: it might be good to wonder why all these things are in English. That is because we have often left the case law to international and European courts. It would be nice if we could bring that case law back to the Netherlands. D66 argued at first reading the importance of ensuring the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. The pandemic but also the surcharge scandal have made it painfully clear that this right is not a matter of course in the Netherlands, let alone a quiet property. So it is good that we are adding a new fundamental right for the first time since 1983. However, it has been suggested that this right is already contained in Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. And yes, that is what it says, but that does not make this proposal superfluous, because the proposed Article 17 in the Constitution goes beyond these articles and provides more legal protection for those seeking justice in the Netherlands. In addition, there is a signal to the courts and the legislator that these guarantees for that fair trial should be further developed and developed more comprehensive protection than they already exist on the basis of that European regime and that the framework of the right to a fair trial should also be further developed. That is also my first question to the Minister. In the light of this new article, how does it see its positive obligations? In other words, what's she gonna do next? I know she left the Minister for Legal Protection at home today or at least did not take it with her, but what could be better in the Netherlands? I am thinking, for example, of the discussions we had with the cabinet on the appointment procedures at the Court of Justice Council. How does that relate to the right to an independent and impartial judge? I'm also curious how it will be taken into account in the trial the Republican Society has brought against the State and the King. But I would also like to mention the openness of justice and the publication of only 10% of all judgments. How does this relate to this new article of the constitution and what does the cabinet intend, as Mrs Leijten has just said, to make it not a dead letter but to actually implement it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. The proposed provision anchors the guarantee of individual legal protection in the Constitution. This anchoring and guaranteeing the derived right of access to justice can also contribute to citizens' confidence in the rule of law and, more particularly, in the case-law. If we as a Chamber can contribute to this by means of legislative changes, that is our expensive duty. The constitutional provision on the right to a fair trial began with a motion of CDA senator Pia Lokin-Sassen from 2012. The First Chamber asked the government unanimously to include in the Constitution a general right to a fair trial by an independent and impartial judge. With this Constitutional provision, the right to a fair trial is not limited to civil and criminal matters or European Union law, but the right to a fair trial will apply to all jurisdictions. And that is not yet the case, although it has been incorporated into several international conventions. In the written consultation on this bill, the CDA Group asked questions about the findings of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance. The government responds that the aim of the efforts of government and justice is to make the right to a fair trial more effective in practice. The constitutional anchoring of the right to a fair trial can be helpful in this respect. This may all the more be the case now that the scope of the proposed constitutional provision also extends to administrative law and, for example, to tax procedures. The CDA Group believes that this is not only good, but that this is also urgently needed. The right to a fair trial means, among other things, that it is forbidden for the government to interfere in judicial proceedings, other than as a party to proceedings, and the government must not deter citizens from the courts, nor should the legislator. At the same time, the right calls for a rapid and fair trial of the government and for it to actively ensure the achievement of the right to a fair trial, including by maintaining a judiciary capable of functioning properly, by ensuring a fair procedure and by providing for possible subsidised legal aid. It is easy to read that the cabinet interprets this as well, but immediately it raises questions. It also says: "Concrete legal or policy proposals on aspects of the right to a fair trial, such as proposals on legal aid or the level of registry rights, will have to comply with this constitutional framework. The precise consequences of this provision for these (law) proposals are still difficult to predict." We would like to hear whether there is more clarity about this now. If not, when is this coming? And how are we going to be informed about this as a room? Because without a proper implementation of these frameworks, our system still fails. We have to prevent that. In the coalition agreement the necessary agreements have been made, so the will is there. Let's just do what we're supposed to do. In any case, the CDA Group welcomes the fact that there is money in the budget for this year to take the first steps in the implementation of last year's motion, which called for the creation of tax assistance for citizens and businesses. This summer, the Secretary of State will present a first proposal on how to fill this out. That is what we are looking forward to with great interest. Summarized. The CDA supports the proposal and is concerned about the loose ends, such as proposals on legal aid and the level of registry rights. We look forward to the answers to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you. I call Mr Strolenberg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. The right to a fair trial of an independent and impartial judge is fundamental in a democratic rule of law. Although the right to a fair trial exists in the Netherlands, including for administrative matters, it is not explicitly stated in the Constitution. The elements of the right to a fair trial are fragmented in the Constitution. It is therefore appropriate to explicitly include the right to a fair trial for all jurisdictions in the Constitution. It will therefore be no surprise that we are in favour of this second reading. We believe it is important that our Dutch fundamental rights do not depend on Strasbourg or on a treaty. I therefore see the inclusion as an added value in relation to the right to a fair trial in the international treaties. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. Amendment number 3 at second reading, but it is still very special. At the moment, in Article 17, our Constitution does have a provision that no one can be held against his or her will from the judge who grants him or her the law, but a provision on how such a trial should proceed is nowhere in the Constitution. Of course, we will all say that anyone who comes before the courts in a democratic rule of law is entitled to a fair trial. However, this is not codified anywhere in the Constitution. My group strongly supported this amendment at first reading. That is what we are now doing at second reading. Perhaps we have become even more convinced of this in recent years, partly because of the terrible situation we have seen in the childcare allowance. Many other colleagues have also referred to this. With the proposal to establish a fair trial in the Constitution, we clearly emphasise that everyone should not only have access to a judge, but that everyone in a judicial procedure should always have a fair assessment of their situation. This is what GroenLinks considers to be of such great importance that this belongs to the Constitution as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. As a follow-up, I would like to mention two more issues which are also important in this context with regard to GroenLinks. The first is the constitutional review. Other colleagues have already mentioned it in an interrupting debate. As is well known, my party has been a warm advocate of this for a very long time. Unfortunately, one of my predecessors' proposals to remove the prohibition of scrutiny from Article 120 of the Constitution has never gone beyond a successful first-reading procedure. Other colleagues also referred to it: in the meantime, however, there seems to be more hope that a broad majority will see the importance of constitutional review. The Minister indicated earlier today in the debate that we will soon receive a comprehensive letter from the government on constitutional review. I would like to ask the Minister to include explicitly in this letter how the various variants of constitutional review relate to the right to a fair trial. In fact, I can imagine that when all the judges are allowed to test, as was stated earlier in the GroenLink proposal, this has different consequences in the case law than if we were to set up a constitutional court. That is one of the proposals. We would like to hear a more detailed account of this in the letter. Hopefully the Minister will be able to agree to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, legal aid. A good system of legal aid is crucial to ensuring a fair trial. In recent years, we have seen that it is not always self-evident that everyone has actually had the opportunity to achieve justice. Will the Minister undertake, together with her colleague for Legal Protection, to ensure that legal aid in the legal sense is guaranteed by a lawyer and legal aid in the linguistic sense by an interpreter at all times and for all those who need it, so that we can actually put the right to a fair trial into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come straight to the point: I share the opinion of the State Committee that it is important for consistency and visibility of fundamental rights to have essential standards in our national constitution. Volt sees many opportunities for better cooperation at European level, but we also think it is the responsibility of the Dutch State to standardize that State. Having said that, Volt is in favour of adding the right to a fair trial to the Constitution. Article 6 of the ECHR offers a great deal of protection, but the proposal now before us extends the scope of protection further. This is also an improvement on the provisions 47 to 52 of the EU Charter. These only apply to disputes where EU law applies. Mr. Chairman. My group still has a number of questions about the proposal to amend Article 17 of the Constitution. The first question concerns the wording of this Article. Does the Minister still believe that the wording in the present proposal is the most desirable wording? Although the concise wording of this article fits the tone and style of our Constitution, it is at the same time less complete than Article 47 of the Charter. The advantage of the more comprehensive wording of Article 47 is that it is clearer what the right to a fair trial means. For example, it also specifies what legal aid is and how it is granted to those who need it. This is not the case with so many words in our Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Then there's my second question. As in my previous contribution, I will look forward with this question at the possibility of constitutional review in any form whatsoever. I would like to look forward, because an amendment to the Constitution could take years. Changes we are making now should therefore be dealt with properly at the front. So again taking into account the situation that formal laws could be tested against the Constitution, I have the following questions. In what way did the Minister take this into account in the context of this adjustment? What impact does the Minister think these changes will have when constitutional review is allowed? Given the possibility that formal laws may be subject to review under the Constitution in the future, would it be desirable to include this brief version in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u12	Now I realize it's hard to look ahead to a hypothetical situation. It may be possible to include some kind of impact analysis in the outline letter, which includes the possibilities for constitutional review. It also allows us to look forward to what the new adaptation, especially the right to a fair trial, could look like when constitutional review is possible, precisely because we already have a lot of case law on this fundamental right in international standards. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u13	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. It is very important that the right to a fair trial is enshrined in the Constitution. Traditional fundamental rights are intended to protect citizens from the government, the almighty state. That is very necessary when it comes to the right to a fair trial, because we all know that power corrupts. Mr. Chairman. Much has happened since the new constitutional law was introduced. These are events that underline what inhuman horrors you end up in when the established political power obstructs your right to a fair trial or, at worst, even abuses criminal prosecution to destroy you. The unprecedented injustice of parents and children in the supplementing affair was revealed by the perseverance of this Chamber. This is not prevented by the fact that the laws and regulations are so well structured and that the right to a fair trial is guaranteed. The affair is an indigestible disgrace on the Dutch rule of law caused by the government. Trust in our rule of law is ruined. Parents have been crushed, driven to despair and touched on the begging staff. They tried to get their rights in court, but instead of justice they were punished. Children were separated from their parents through government-led state kidnappings. The government as a perpetrator; try to gain from that in a trial! Solving the abuses caused by the premium affair is even more unfair, more bureaucracy and more millstones between which the victims are ground. And it still hasn't stopped. Parents and children are still divorced. Every day there's one too many. BVNL stresses that the restoration of the damage suffered is an integral part of the right to a fair trial and that the right to reparation for damage with this constitutional change also becomes a constitutional right. Mr. Chairman. Also during the corona crisis, the government showed itself on its worst side when it comes to tolerating a different opinion. Non-vaccines were convicted as criminals. They even got blamed for the coronados among vaccinees. They were told by Minister De Jonge that it would be a pandemic of the unvaccinated, even the fault of the whole pandemic. Children and young people were identified as culprits when it comes to infections and the eventual death of vulnerable elderly people. They are cross-border accusations by the government, in the best case defamation and slander, and in the worst case even death by guilt. Recently it became clear how far the government went in following people with criticism. The army was deployed and a special army unit was set up to track down and rat out people with a different opinion. These people, including some MPs including myself, were hunted down and convicted by an army of tweeting roles as if they were committing a crime by writing down their opinions. I have experienced for myself how disruptive these actions were and how family ties, careers and circle of friends were put under great pressure. The rule that you are innocent in the Netherlands until you are condemned, perhaps the most important pillar of the right to a fair trial, unfortunately does not apply in the social media, it seems. This government even uses it. At the first reading of the Constitutional Amendment in May 2017, Ms Van Engelshoven was MP for D66. She began her contribution with a beautiful quote from the masterpiece The Kafka Process: "Someone must have slandered Josef K, for without doing any harm, he was arrested one morning." She stressed that this was fortunately impossible in the Netherlands. I could have started this input by saying, "Someone had to have slandered Richard de M., because without doing any harm, he was snatched from his bed one morning." It was precisely the Hague D66, from which Van Engelshoven comes, that does not care that you are innocent in the Netherlands if you are not convicted. In recent election debates, the local D66 list leader insisted that De Mos was definitely not eligible for coalition talks. Of course, De Mos became the largest in the elections, but he was politically destroyed with unsustainable accusations from the prosecution and inhumanely long deadlines, which cannot be explained. The case against Alderman De Mos, who started on 1 October 2019 with an absurd action by the Public Prosecutor, is about the opposite of a fair trial. He was ripped off his bed by the National CID. His house was trashed. He had to turn in his phone and was taken to the station intimidatingly, while it was his right not to go. Before that, he had been bugged for one year. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you. Mr. Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u16	Perhaps also for the Acts: what happens in local politics with the spokesperson of the Van Haga Group is, in my opinion, coalition negotiations. D66 made that clear, before the elections, how they stood in there. When it comes to prosecuting Mr De Mos, but also Mr Guernaoui, I simply said on the radio, on the public record, that I find it a disgrace how long that lasts and that it needs to be clarified. That's what the list leader Van Asten did locally. That's what I said in individual interviews with the D.A.'s office. So I won't let that talk me into it, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u17	I appreciate Mr Sneller saying that. Sure. If it's happened differently, I'll withdraw those words. It is certainly the case that in this case there are incredibly long deadlines and that the political damage is inconceivable. I hope we all think we should do something about that. I understand you agree with that. That's why I'm here. Thank you for your addition. The D.A. sent out a press release with serious charges. It became a huge media spectacle. Trial by media, organized by the government. The NOS-Journaal reported the same evening that it was a major corruption case, unprecedented for Dutch concepts. The state's attorney said in the broadcast that there were indications that licences had been sold. This was mentioned in the NOS-Journaal as a serious fact, but as an alderman, De Mos had no authority to issue permits; this was done by VVD mayor Pauline Krikke. How can a prosecutor make such a huge accusation of carelessness, with such far-reaching consequences? Is this incompetence or cunning? I don't know. Why did VVD mayor Krikke, who had to leave a few days later because of serious mistakes in the New Year's Joy Fires, not put that right in a reaction? Instead, she asked the aldermen of Group De Mos to resign. The largest party in The Hague was manoeuvred out of the coalition on the basis of suspicion, trial by media and political opportunism. Later, more accusations were made by the D.A.'s office. The Moss would be a member of a criminal organization. There were websites and promotional videos paid for by The Hague entrepreneurs. Everyone in The Hague knows that De Mos is committed to entrepreneurs in the city. No problem, but not for a single one who makes his website for free. The procedure of the D.A. has nothing, but nothing, to do with the right to a fair trial. On 1 October 2019 the raid in his house was made into a complete media spectacle. Then it became deadly quiet. It was not until 7 September 2020 that the interviews started. The damage to The Moss is inhumane. It is clear from settled case law that, as interests increase, a case needs to be dealt with more quickly. In total, it's been three and a half years now. The actions of the prosecution prior to the formal prosecution are also subject to the right to be dealt with within reasonable time limits. There's been another interruption, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u19	I would like to make a point of order that this debate is not about what happened to someone who is involved in BVNL; that is allowed. Someone I've always appreciated when I was in the Chamber with him. I don't think anyone likes to see what happened and especially how long it takes. I find that an embarrassment, also for the reliability of this process. However, I would like to ask Mr Van Haga to return to the debate on the amendment of the Constitution. I think we should talk about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. I'll give you some examples, including the premium affair, including the trial against De Mos. I will briefly mention the trial against Wilders. These are examples that show that we have to pay very close attention to having a fair trial and the deadlines that go with it. This illustrates that things often go wrong, and that is why I am pleased that this constitutional change is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u21	I will also give examples as an example, but Mr Van Haga does show up very much in the details of when someone was taken off his bed and you name it. He also involves all political parties. D66 has already said that, but I would be happy if we returned to the constitutional amendment we are talking about. I fully agree with Mr Van Haga that there are many examples of why this is necessary and why this constitutional change should ensure that it does not become a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u22	I am very pleased that Mrs Leijten at least agrees that it is a terrible situation that has happened to De Mos. I'm done with the example De Mos, so I think I can go on to my satisfaction. Mr. Chairman. I also recall the trial against Wilders. The district attorney's office was guided by the time when the elections to the provincial states were held. It was written in black and white. How politically can the D.A. make a trial and has the D.A. ever been called upon to do so? As Zembla put it in 2019: "If the Public Prosecutor himself makes mistakes, that can have major consequences." Can the state's attorney's office, as I ask the minister, break the rules with impunity? Initiators are very concerned and see a gap in supervision. How does the Minister view the supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the light of a fair and timely trial? Mr. Chairman. Then briefly the arrest of Willem Engel. Even the greatest opponents of Willem Engel are ashamed of the way he was arrested, for the vague accusations at his address. The disproportionate duration of his detention shall be disproportionate to what is charged to him. Besides, no one understands where this randomness comes from anymore. Mr Akwasi was not prosecuted while everyone agreed that he did call for violence; something Willem Engel never did. I'd like the Minister's reflection on this arbitrariness. Mr. Chairman. It is people who do not conform to the established political order who have to wait and see if their rights are guaranteed. Is the Netherlands a safe country for people who do not conform, for people who are seen by those in power as a threat to their position of power? Of course I can't get an answer from this room. The coalition parties are pillars of established political power. Can the Minister indicate what has happened to a person who is deliberately destroyed by public services and justice to this constitutional change? BVNL argues that this new constitutional right should become an anchor for those who have the courage to stand up to the established power. As a terrier, we will ensure that it does not become a paper tiger and that it is further anchored in the laws and regulations. A constitutional right to a fair trial does not only have meaning as a fundamental right for the citizen, but is also a task for legal form by us as legislators. It is true that reasonable deadlines are guarded and that there is supervision of the public prosecutor, that there are rules for the relationship between the public prosecutor and the press, and that, of course, there must be no abuse of power and arbitrariness by the government. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm looking at Mr Bosma, but I don't like him. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. This is the second reading. The first reading was completed with publication of the constitutional revision on 29 March 2018 in the Staatsblad. The right to a fair trial has been incorporated into the Constitution and is now ahead at second reading. Not because the government took an opinion from the state committee in 2010, but because the First Chamber insisted on it. I look back at where we stand and what we have seen in the surcharge scandal, the evaluation of the Council of State and the self-evaluation of the judges. In this self-evaluation they say: we have not really looked at the interests of the people in front of us when they are in conflict with the government for a long time. Lady Justitia wasn't blindfolded. Looking back, I find it sad to see that the government was not prepared to include this in the Constitution. I would like to know how this Minister looks back on that. Or maybe she can't, but okay. It's there now. The SP was in front of the previous reading and is in favour of this reading. The SP has been critical at the previous reading, because it is material that in recent years the development of the policy has not increased the legal protection of people but rather reduced it. It was just about the increase in registry rights and the undressing of subsidised legal aid, which the former Secretary of State for Security and Justice literally said: the intention was for people to be less able to sue. You also avoid fewer processes by being less harsh as a government, by listening to people and by not removing objections and appealing immediately and saying "go to court." Has that changed as a result of the surcharge scandal already? Someone who does not have access to or who is on the tax authority's blacklist, this is a data breach, and the Chamber has called in several motions to share it with those people and to inform them of it is referred to a rejection under GDPR Article 41.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have asked Parliament questions about this and I do not receive any answers. I have seen that Mrs Van Dijk has also asked Parliamentary questions about it and it is just happening now. Today we read in an article about the counterexpertise that UWV uses and is purchased from non-independent parties who will support the story of the UWV. Yes, the right to a fair trial also begins with a government and implementing agencies that people see from a human perspective. I hope the Minister agrees with me. Finally, youth services. On this subject, the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection, perhaps I say the title wrong, said in January: if an authority is to be imposed in a family, there should be sufficient time and space for the parent and child perspective in the course and the legal process. Let this work on you. In this country, therefore, children are placed out of their homes without talking to their parents and children. That's what's happening right now. And this is now advised. I want to know if this government is gonna take care of that right away. The government says: we are not cutting back on child care, but we are strengthening youth care. People have the right to a fair trial and, above all, they have the right to a fair government, which does not direct a process in which they are without a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he needs about 15 minutes to prepare himself. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u26	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr President. For this purpose, Members of Parliament have already mentioned the foundations of the democratic rule of law. The right to a fair trial for an independent and impartial judge is one of its fundamentals. It has a switching function: without a fair trial, other rights cannot be guaranteed. After all, it is the judge who can decide on disputes between citizens or between citizens and the government. In criminal proceedings, where a suspect is entitled to certain rights, a fair trial is also of great importance. In 2012, Ms Lokin-Sassen's motion was adopted unanimously in the First Chamber. This motion called on the government to anchor the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. This proposal, which is now before us at second reading, follows up on this motion. With the effect that the motion is now getting, you can see that the importance that all Members of Parliament stressed here, namely that it is a basis of our rule of law, is given a place in the Constitution. Mrs Leijten asked why the proposal did not come from the cabinet at the time? It's been many years. On the other hand, you can of course just say that it was the co-legislator who said he would like to see an important interpretation of this. It has asked the other side of the legislature to work on this. In this sense, this motion has been properly implemented. It is done in Article 17 of the Constitution: a general right to a fair trial. This is in addition to the existing provision which states that no one can be withheld from the rights conferred on him by the law and that everyone is entitled to a fair trial before an independent and impartial judge within a reasonable period of time. On that "reasonable term," I'll come back later. As some members point out, the right to a fair trial is already firmly enshrined in Dutch law and practice. This proposal does not change anything. However, it is not yet guaranteed at constitutional level. In fact, as some Members have said, it is an omission that has not yet been incorporated into the Constitution. The new constitutional law will also apply to disputes not covered by the protection of a treaty provision, because part of the right to a fair trial is already covered by Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 47 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. The new disputes covered are disputes concerning the admission and expulsion of foreign nationals, parts of civil service law and tax disputes. The draft Constitution, as it now stands, aims to complement these Treaty provisions and has a wider scope. I would like to stress that, at the moment, the fair trial is already a starting point as well as access to justice. That's what the members said. The proposed fundamental right does not have a symbolic value, but a normative value, because the legislator will have to review new or existing legislation, which proposes amendments, in accordance with that constitutional provision. The provision, like Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Article 47 of the Charter, has also been formulated as a subjective right for citizens. This means that he can directly invoke the law before the national courts in proceedings relating to the elaboration of the law. There was also a question about the independence and impartiality of the courts and trial within a reasonable period of time. These notes apply to all types of judicial proceedings and also to all jurisdictions. The new provision does not exhaustively list all the elements and elements of a fair trial, because this does not fit in with the sober nature of our Constitution: it is formulated in general. At the first reading of this constitutional proposal, my predecessor indicated that the inclusion of the right to a fair trial in the Constitution could also contribute to increasing the citizens' confidence in the Constitution and the rule of law. Several members of this Chamber have argued how manifest that has become in the past period, also because of the terrible events surrounding the childcare allowance affair. In this sense, the surcharge affair has really shown that trust in the rule of law requires more than a paper reality. Elaborating the right to a fair trial does not yet guarantee that the law is actually guaranteed in all cases. As for the other fundamental rights, as Mrs Leijten said, this right requires continued attention and regular reflection on whether protection is actually provided in the legislation and in practice. It's not a quiet property. It is an active asset, where you must actively look into the legislation and the drafting of legislation to see whether the right to a fair trial is actually being implemented. I shall now go into more detail on the reflection on the premium affair. That is, of course, one of the important elements in which we have been able to see that what is on paper has not been implemented in practice. That therefore requires a change of approach, a change of attitude and a change in the way we behave. Mr. Chairman. All in all, this right to a fair trial in the Constitution is not superfluous. It is important to put this right where it belongs, namely in the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of requests have been made, among others by Mrs Koekkoek and Mrs Maatoug: what will change if the courts are allowed to review the Constitution in a formal sense and the right to a fair trial? The proposal is based on the current system, including Article 120 of the Constitution; that is what Mrs Maatoug and Mrs Koekkoek both said. But the question that Mrs Maatoug and Mrs Koekkoek also asked was: yes, but if you are going to delete Rule 120, can you give a little more insight into what that means for the right to a fair trial, and what effect does that have? There are two elements in that. I think it would be a good idea for both elements to be included in the outline letter. The first element concerns the effects of the scattered or concentrated review. Those are two choices you have within the constitutional review. The second element concerns the question of which fundamental rights are or are not suitable for constitutional review. Mrs Maatoug, for example, referred to the constitutional proposal, which Mrs Halsema was one of the signatories of, and to her a number of other Members, whom I do not know directly by heart. He had made a certain choice about which fundamental rights you want to test or not. That is the second point we will be discussing in the main letter. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked, by Mrs Van Dijk, Mr Van Haga and others, about what is a reasonable time limit for a trial. I am not the Minister for Legal Protection, but as Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations I would like to answer this question. Of course, I cannot do that in the depths in which my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, can do so, but I will try as best I can. Look, trial within a reasonable period of time is an essential part of the right to a fair trial, all of which Members here in the Chamber have argued. That applies to all types of lawsuit. It is therefore also explicitly included in Article 17 of the Constitution. I will now quote in English; so did Mr Sneller. It is sometimes said: "Justice delayed is justice denied." What is a reasonable period of time depends on the context of a lawsuit. It remains, even with this notion being incorporated into the Constitution, a matter of real concern to the courts. The deadline itself is therefore not constitutionally set. There is a lot of case law on what is a reasonable period of time. It follows that, in the case of criminal proceedings, each instance may last for a maximum of two years, subject to special circumstances. In the case of administrative matters, both the appeal and appeal phases may last for a maximum of two years each. For civil matters, customization applies to what is a reasonable period of time. In civil cases, damages may be awarded if the reasonable period of time is exceeded. In the end, it is also up to the court to determine whether a reasonable period of time has been used by the person who prepares such a court case.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I understand that, for example, the court can incorporate a non-reasonable period of time for the proceedings into the judgment it will give later. That's the basis of the system. At the same time, it is a question of what a government can do to guarantee the right to a fair trial. The cabinet has already launched a number of important pathways to make the law more accessible and to strengthen the right to a fair trial. I would like to mention, for example, the revision of the right to subsidised legal aid and the process of making the conduct of proceedings of the public authorities more humane.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u28	I understood that the Minister was done with the piece on the deadlines. The point I wanted to make in my speech was that politicians or people who are politically active are often even more pregnant. That is where you want to avoid the appearance of some kind of state-led political process. Does the Minister agree with me that we should also ensure specifically for that group that the trial is above suspicion and that we should give such a person a fair trial as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u29	On the basis of the article that we have before us, but also on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights, the starting point is that there must be a fair trial in the Netherlands. I have just set out the basic principles for a reasonable period of fair trial. It is difficult for me in my position to say anything about the length of the legal proceedings in individual cases, except that it is not desirable that proceedings should last longer than necessary. Creating clarity is very important in order to provide an image of what is needed. For this reason, it is ultimately up to the court to determine at a later stage whether or not a reasonable period of time has been used. I have just indicated that the starting point is that there are basic principles for this, but unfortunately, as a minister, I cannot make individual statements on a case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u30	That's not what I'm asking. It was more of a general question: isn't it true that we need to be even more careful for those who are politically active and to make those deadlines even shorter, so that at least this appearance of conflict of interest by the government is gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u31	For that, it is also very important to stress that it is really up to the Public Prosecutor to take independent decisions at the stage of detection and prosecution, i.e. at the preliminary stage of an actual trial. It's just about the BOLO and the prosecution. I have also checked this, because I, as Minister of the Interior, am of course somewhat less involved in this matter, but the only way in which this can be exercised politically is through a special appointment by the Minister of Justice and Security to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but it really has a lot of safeguards. As a result, the current principle is that the Minister also does not interfere with individual matters and that the Minister simply does not use this power of designation in practice either, because the Public Prosecutor has the principle of opportunity: the Public Prosecutor's Office decides whether or not to investigate and prosecute. There should be a minister outside, even from the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u32	It is clear, of course, that this power of designation must lie with the State's Attorney's Office. The question, which I also asked in my speech, is who controls the prosecution. Who's gonna make sure the D.A. doesn't go wrong? I understand that it has to be done completely independently, but it sometimes gets out of hand and then you have to prevent the impression that it is a political story. That may be in the public prosecutor's office on its own, but it must be possible for a certain purification or control to be carried out so that it does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u33	In the end, it is the judge who also tests whether or not the Public Prosecutor has applied a reasonable period of time and who can take that into account in terms of penalties. So it is the judge who has an explicit role in this, I understand. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other things, because I had moved on to another question, namely what the cabinet is going to do to guarantee the right to a fair trial. A number of things have now been set in motion. There's gonna be some repetition now, but then I'm gonna get back in where I left off. This concerns the revision of the subsidised legal aid. I shall go into this more specifically. There is also the process of making the procedural behaviour of the government more human-oriented. Furthermore, there are the various routes around time delay in the event of an objection and appeal. A number of other issues, relating to the Omtzigt motion, are also being examined to ensure that we make it more human-oriented. Let me now turn to the state of play on the legal aid proposals. In order to make the system of subsidised legal aid future-proof, a system renewal was launched in 2018. The coalition agreement continues this reform of the system, as the members also indicated. The Minister for Legal Protection informs the House of Representatives twice a year about its progress. The seventh progress report is sent to the Chamber before the summer recess. And on 7 April, as I understand it, there is a debate with him on subsidised legal aid. So that's where the follow-up takes place. Mrs Van Dijk asked about the announced reduction in registry fees. In fact, the Cabinet considers the reduction of registry duties to be an important measure to improve access to justice and justice. The aim is that the necessary legislative amendment for this reduction in registry rights and civil and administrative matters can be consulted before the summer and offered to the Chamber this year. The Minister of Justice and Security's commitment is to bring this legislation into force in 2024. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked a question about the appointment of the Court of Justice in the Council. The role of the Minister for Legal Protection in the appointment of members of the Court of Justice has been the subject of discussion for some time now. Mr. Faster knows that, too. The Advisory Section of the Council of State gave its opinion on this issue in 2020, which concluded that the current procedure, with the Minister's role at the front of the procedure, does not contain any constitutional bottlenecks. At present, the Council is conducting, within its own ranks, a dialogue on the appointment procedure for the judges and members of the Council. The results are now awaited. I asked when the Chamber would hear more about that. This autumn, the Minister for Legal Protection will inform the Court of Justice whether the discussions will give rise to a change in his role in the appointment procedure for members of the Court of Justice. So in the autumn, the Minister for Legal Protection will continue to inform the Chamber about this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten and several Members asked for a reflection on, for example, the childcare allowance affair, not only of the cabinet but also of the judiciary, because it is also an important part of ensuring a fair trial. The judges of the courts and the Council of State have reflected on their own role. They see the need for a critical attitude towards administrative bodies and a more humane approach to use Mrs Leijten's words. The cabinet is committed to strengthening the position of the person subject to administrative law. To this end, the General Administrative Law Act is also amended to make it more human-oriented. In the coming period, the main lines of this will also be described in a letter to the Chamber, in which we will also discuss the consequences of the implementation of the Ploumen/Jetten motion, as I mentioned earlier. We'll do that before the summer. We shall also discuss the hardness clause. And we're also looking at issues like forgiveness, more opportunities for people to fix mistakes and increased motivation. Those are a number of elements that we are now including, I say to Mrs Leijten. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mrs Leijten also asked about child care. It was a pretty specific question. I have tried to approach my colleague from VWS about this in the small quarter of an hour I just had. I couldn't do that. I cannot therefore give an answer to that question in substance at the moment. I have also asked about the written questions to which Mrs Leijten referred. I checked what written questions they were. Thank you for that. Those were questions to the Secretary of State for Fiscal Affairs. I understand that the answer came to the Chamber at least at the end of February.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mrs. Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u35	At least that's what I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u36	This is precisely about the question: is it a dead letter or do we give substance to it? Those questions have been answered, but there has been no answer to the question of why people are not given the reason why they are not given access. People have been promised that they would have access to the reason they're blacklisted. People are acknowledged to have been duped and received a rejection letter that does not include a reason. According to the GDPR, this is legally meant to be. And then it's said: appeal and appeal. But with what? So this is where the same thing happens for those people. I find it so sad that it happens again with exactly the same people and exactly the same ministry in exactly the same way, after all those words of sorry. That is why I gave this example. I understand the Minister has no solution to this right now, but I do want her to know that. While she is defending a constitutional change here, things like unlawful action and not informing people, so you do not give them the right to a fair trial, just within this minister's own government. That's quite separate from the fact that people should just get that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u37	In this context, it is also important to emphasise, because this also has a large part to do with administrative law, that we are really working with the Minister for Legal Protection to see how this can be made more human-oriented within administrative law. This concerns not only forgiveness but also the creation of more opportunities for people to correct errors and the extension of the obligation to state reasons. So you're more up front. We're actually in the back now, part of it, where the misery has already been caused. Similarly, we want to ensure more in the front that people do not end up in such a situation. In fact, you should always realize, even in the Constitution, in that vertical relationship, that the government must be aware that it is in a much stronger position than man, citizen or citizen. That is what the Constitution is for. So, in policy, implementation and legislation, you have to make sure that you don't overwhelm people's vulnerability, but you have to pay attention to the fact that you have to balance. You must be aware that your position is always stronger than that of another in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u38	The Minister doesn't say anything I disagree with. But you're gonna be watching this while you've got one of those rejection letters lying around. The grounds for rejection, if you look them up in the law, appear to be related to crime, fraud and state secret; it's a whole line. And you will not be told on what grounds your request was rejected. For those people, we still do not change anything material, despite all those beautiful words. It is about the constitutional reforms today and, of course, it was about last week when the Minister was unfortunately ill with the Bosman Committee's report. It looks nice, but if we implement these management solutions and don't change the mindset and start now... We hear: we are waiting, we are waiting for research, and yes, we are going to do it. No, right now, the Treasury Department is writing illegal rejection letters to people who are victims of a government tort. I understand that the Minister can't do anything about that now, but I do hope she has heard it and that she will make a call later: "Guys, this is not possible. Surely I cannot say with good decency that I want to go another way, while the ministry is still in that old groove?" Then throw people in that whole objection procedure, right up to the judge. But what are they supposed to fight? They don't even know the grounds for rejection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u39	I hear Mrs Leijten's appeal, also in this particular case. At the same time, I am also aware of the fact that I cannot simply step into the role of the Secretary of State. Apart from that, we really want to take concrete steps with legislation, including on the basis of a motion by Mrs Leijten, but also a motion by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Jetten. We're just really looking at where the harshness is. Also in other forms and with the hardness clause, we are really working on how we can properly implement it, so that we can do the right thing for people with laws that may be legitimate in themselves but are unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u40	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr President, I am at the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u42	I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Yes, I think only Mr Van Haga. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. The right to a fair trial already exists. The intention is to make this a fundamental right now. This Chamber is in favour of that. That's good. This debate has shown that. This means even more care in civil law, administrative law and criminal law, and in bringing prosecutions in which the government has a monopoly. The cases of Richard de Mos, Geert Wilders and Willem Engel show, in my opinion, that deadlines can be stretched so excessively with such excessive damage, that we can conclude that there is something to improve. That's an understatement. The existing rules and case law on reasonable time limits do not, of course, guarantee a fair trial. This must be a matter of great concern to us as a Chamber, especially in this debate. In criminal proceedings against a politician, the appearance of a political trial must be avoided with the utmost care. This requires, in particular, extra careful handling of the reasonable period of time. Making a politician dangle for years doesn't fit in. Of course, I also understand that it is independent, but the legislator, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we are capable of laying down rules on the way in which the public prosecutor operates. There is a fundamental right first and foremost for the citizen, but it is also a task for the State General and the Cabinet as legislator. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the establishment of a constitutional right to a fair trial is also a task for the legislator;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen its legislative anchoring of the right to a fair trial for political officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35784-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you. I'm just looking at the Minister's ability to give her an appreciation immediately, or would she like to suspend for five minutes? I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u46	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their support for this proposal to include the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. It is a result of a motion by Mrs Lokin-Sassen and is likely to be incorporated into the Constitution. I say "going to get," Mr. Chairman, because there is also, of course, another treatment in the Upper Chamber. What the Van Haga motion in part No. 7 on: I agree with Mr Van Haga that a fair trial applies to everyone. That's why I'm going to discourage this motion: it shouldn't matter who you are. It should make no difference in this society who you are: everyone has the right to a fair trial. That goes for everyone. Besides, you can't make a distinction. The judge, whoever he has in front of him, will have to do so independently, impartially and honestly. Every citizen of the Netherlands has the right to do so. That is why I reject this motion, because everyone must be able to rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u48	I understand that, of course. That principle is also sacred; we agree with it. But it is already the case that, depending on the gravity of the crime, priority is given. It already is. There are already exceptions for politicians. Take the Wwft, in which we are treated as PEPs because we would have an exemption position. So given the impact of such a long term on the process and also on the appearance that the government is charging itself from a political process, I would still argue that we should at least see if this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u49	The Public Prosecutor's Office is impartial and independent. A fair trial really applies to everyone. We can't make a distinction in that. The Financial Supervision Act is a law that requires political ministers and other persons to give more insight into their finances, but that has no direct relationship with getting a fair trial. Really, everyone in the Netherlands has the same right to a fair trial. No distinction should be made. From that perspective, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-6.u51	Next Tuesday, we're going to vote on the bill and the motion tabled.
