ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	We have arrived at the first deadline to answer the questions put to the President of the Chamber and Mr Van der Staaij. I shall be the first to give the floor to President Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an extensive introduction. In that introduction I try to answer as many questions as possible. There are a few specific questions and there are some other questions. I shall begin by thanking the President for guiding this debate. I would also like to thank Mrs van der Plas from BBB for requesting this debate. When Mrs Van der Plas asked for the debate, I honestly thought for a moment: okay, what is going to happen in such a debate? Because it's really a unique experience that we have a public debate about ourselves, about behavior and manners. It is also a unique fact that a President writes a note about behavior and behaviour. But there is also an important reason for this. I attach great importance to explaining it a little more comprehensively. However, I also think it is important to say, in addition to and in support of Mrs Leijten, that most debates are just worthy, with respect to each other. That's really important to me. I wrote that in the note, too. I really want to start with that. Not everything always gets the desired attention, I say that, but it is important to know how hard this Chamber works, with two parliamentary surveys and you name it all. A lot of things happen behind the coulisses and a lot in committee rooms. For the people who are watching this debate, I think it is important to indicate that. At the same time, I have seen that there is a feeling of unease among many colleagues. It was one of the reasons why I started talks with almost all the group chairmen in December. All the group chairmen have spoken with me and the Registrar, with the exception of the PVV. Let me also thank the groups for that. They were good, frank conversations. It was very nice to see how everyone can sometimes look at the same reality differently. However, I also experienced many similarities. Those conversations led to the note. I must honestly say that I started that at the end of last year, during the celebrations. I thought I should start now, now that we've had all these conversations, because I imagine that as a Chamber, you're asking me what those conversations have resulted in. So I started writing at the Christmas church. As a new President, it was quite a quest for me to see what is happening and where the limits are. I made the note based on the conversations, my own observations and my own insights. I see it as my vision and as a guiding document. Also important is the following. I have, of course, followed this debate with great interest to hear how the Chamber looks at it. I see and experience support. If that's not true, I'll find out in second term. I experience support to do a number of things. Let me explain a little bit more about the occasion. I noticed, also in the conversations, that we experience that the limits of what is and is not lawful have been shifting for years. Where we used to be shocked by the phrase "you're a liar," we don't look forward to that anymore. I'm just telling you the truth. So that border has shifted over the past few years. We're just gonna find what's not so normal. In the last few weeks, I have always had to explain to you that we are not going to make a list of forbidden words. We're not gonna come up with some kind of taste police. But I also had to explain that "blasthead" is really a swear word. When you explain that to kids, they really look at you like, "We know that, don't we?" Then I say, "Well, in the Chamber, the best thing is to talk about whether or not it's a swear word." But we're not going to come up with a banned word list; it always depends on the context and the situation. In the conversations I noticed that there is also a search for a way to normalize the lake: the more normalizing of each other but also the more normalizing by the chairman. I have noticed over the past few weeks that we have actually already started to do that. We have already started to raise awareness about this. I also see this in trade union K, given a personal fact that a minister made not so long ago. I see it in the debates, in which there is also much more debate on the rule of law and democracy, by colleagues and with a reply from the Chamber. In the end, of course, it is also the best thing for Members of Parliament to have a debate on this between themselves. In addition, I thought it was important to write a note because I was told by fellow Vice-Presidents and committee chairmen: Mr President, please indicate where these limits lie. In a number of situations, it sometimes seemed like we were being mugged a little bit. So that has also been an important goal. It is also important that people look at this debate. This has also been said by a number of colleagues, such as Mrs Hermans and Mrs Van der Plas. I, too, was shocked by that letter from a school watching a debate. Of course you do. There are a lot of people who are following all our debates; that is absolutely beautiful. But this was about a school that said, how you two are debating each other, we can do better. I've spoken to some of the students at that school, too. We've been talking to each other. In the meantime, they had followed another debate and also said: it is good to see that you are also having worthy and beautiful debates. Then I said, "Well, most debates are like that." I say this in order to point out that these debates can also have an impact on students, on people who are watching such a debate. Mr. Chairman. It's not just about the tone or certain words. My note goes wider than that. It is also about our debate culture. Are we working together? What's the atmosphere? If we have just had an extensive first term of office, are we going to interrupt the ruler immediately? Are we still listening to each other? Does a debate have such an impact on our opinion that afterwards we say: well, it was an interesting debate; I did think differently about it after all? These are things that are also part of the debate culture. Of course, we have an example. It has already been said that this debate also calls for reflection. It asks us to rise a little above ourselves, and to look at the bigger picture with that look. There are also concerns about safety with me and with you, my colleagues. I have described in my note the interaction between society and the House of Representatives, but also the other way around, as I say in response to Mrs Leijten's questions. Of course, enough is happening, including in society. Of course, that also has an impact on us and vice versa. I have also expressed my concerns with our security services and asked what the impact of what we are doing here is. I would like to come back to the questions raised by the CDA in particular. That there are those concerns, I think is also a good reason. I have also described that in my note to take responsibility when it comes to the question: does my freedom mean that the other has less freedom? I really think that is a responsibility of all 150 Members of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The free word. I would like to point out that it has actually been said in all discussions with all the group chairmen: the free speech is invaluable. No one had any doubts about that, neither did I. Just here, with the many views and opinions we have, opinions that we sometimes say "I cannot imagine" to opinions that we embrace, the debate on this must take place. We represent the whole of the Netherlands. That is an important responsibility. But I also tell you: the free word has nothing to do with insulting people. It is not for nothing that that is stated in our Rules of Procedure. The free word can just be killed, smothered by insulting people. We've all read stories in the paper from colleagues of ours. A number of colleagues have also told me in confidence that they sometimes have doubts about saying something here. They say, "Then they'll make these nasty movies again, and that's what's bothering me. That's some kind of self-censorship. I believe that these are all reasons for this debate and why it is very important. I have already said that there will be no language police and no list of forbidden words. Let me also say something about parliamentary immunity. A little attention has also been paid to this in this debate. Parliamentary immunity was introduced in 1848 to achieve the independence of state powers. That was the background, not the absolute freedom of speech. This was done in order to make it clear that the Chamber is about itself and that it should not be "burdened" by a judge or the Public Prosecutor's Office. Article 72 of the Constitution instructs the First and Second Chambers to have rules of procedure. Therefore, we establish restrictions with each other. We all know that freedom of expression is not an absolute thing, not even outside the Chamber. There are always laws restricting her. We can say anything here, without the judge or the D.A.'s agreement. We have established the limitations with each other in our Rules of Procedure. The interplay between Articles 71 and 72 indicates that the Constitutionalist has left us free to determine its own rules. You have nothing to do with the judge or the D.A.'s office. You have nothing to do with the chairman. It can standardize and sanction. Then about the note. I've given an explanation to our own rules. So I didn't come up with any rules of my own. I think we've devoured some of the rules a little bit. That is what I heard a number of colleagues say. This applies, for example, to playing or insulting the person. Article 18.4 is a new article, thanks to the SGP. He introduced that rule into our Rules of Procedure. It is an appeal to all of us when it comes to dignity and mutual respect. Mr Bishop asked how this President thinks about swearing words and certain language. I think that Article 8.14 is very important. When it comes to swearing and swearing, I can of course call on Article 8.14. Colleagues can do the same. It's an active article. Article 8.14 also affects the way we conduct the debate with each other and the procedures. I was very pleased that Mrs Simons said at some point that it is important to talk through the President. That's what I'm still trying to get in with everyone. That's a repeat. I think someone said "repeated is power." After a lot of repetition, you hope it holds up for once. That is why I indicated in the note that the First Chamber included the discussion through the President in its Rules of Procedure. I once had an informal debate with Mr Eerdmans on whether it was necessary to speak through the President. Those old rules are really important. We don't have them for nothing. Talking through the chairman has a damping and moderating effect. It shall ensure that the President is independent and that the members are present from their office. You get a kind of peace and quiet in the interaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Through you, against the President, I may be alone in this. I often find it very annoying when it is said: please go through the President. This applies both in committee and here in plenary. Then there's a respectable conversation or debate between me and the minister. You are just on steam and have a direct confrontation, which is then interrupted with: you need to speak through the chairman. It also went that way with Mrs Simons. That might have gone a little bit brighter, but I still think it's very respectful. At least it went in a normal way. I am concerned about whether it is a little exaggerated to have to say it so often. That's what your colleagues do here. If a debate gets a bit steamy, the President immediately interrupts it, with: speaking through the President. I understand what that is meant for, namely that there are no direct attacks, without measure. I think it would be good if the President calmed down those situations, but I think it is now 'form about substance'. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	That is a factual question about why this is so important. I've just indicated that it has a dampening effect. It shall ensure the independence of the President. I have also seen the incidents in the Chamber that we have all brought into this debate. These were all examples where "you" or "you" were said. And that creates an atmosphere in which you, as chairman, can hardly get in the way anymore. It is really important to maintain order to do so. I do realize that sometimes it's really annoying. I myself find it annoying to interrupt, but I do say to the Chamber that I hope that we will actually do more with each other in future. Then I promise Mr Eerdmans: if it doesn't, you know, then the world doesn't end either. But it is important that we get that much more into our systems. Without trying to harm you, I can see that the experienced Members of Parliament, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have something more in the system. It's kind of hard for new MPs. I value it, and I also want to do it with new MPs, to bring those rituals, the rules, to the attention of some people, because they have a function. It has been well thought out in the past and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	I think that the debate between a Member of Parliament and a person in office is often wrongly smothered by it. People at home see that too, don't they? If I said to you, "What are you saying? Through the chairman.", then the viewer at home thinks: what are they talking about? It's a direct way of debating. And again, I agree on the percentage percentage in which it gets out of hand or in which it gets way too personal. You can say something about that as chairman. But I do not think it has as much to do with inexperience as it does with the way in which the debate is conducted. I do not believe that this exists in the House of Commons in England. Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	Also. Mrs. Leijten might know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	It's less obvious. Well, it may also be the taste of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think it is a taste issue, but I also see clearly a functionality. Of course, you may think differently, but I would very much like to see this enshrined in our Rules of Procedure. Then we go to the other articles, to start at 8.16a: no insulting expressions. I have also indicated what I understand by this: not intimidating, not threatening, not being unnecessarily grievanced and not playing on the person. I was just saying, those words that then began to lead their own lives. In the end, it's not about the person, it's about playing the ball. Then you'll have a more pleasant debate and you'll keep each other together. Of course, a number of questions have also been asked about the rule of law and democracy. I see us all, all 150, as guardians of democracy and the rule of law. Not only the President, but all 150 have a responsibility in that. I think I'm a little more the guardian of the House of Representatives. On that and on how things are going here, the sailing, you can really appeal to me. But guardian of democracy and the rule of law: there I really see a responsibility for all of us. I saw that happen in recent weeks, but I think it is important to question each other and to have the debate on this. The same applies to the question of discrimination. It seems so easy sometimes. And I also say to you as President: if there is any obvious discrimination, then of course the President has a role to play in this. But we know... And sometimes that also has to do with vision and look. Sometimes there's a piece of subjectivity in it. But it is not for nothing that judges and the Human Rights College have been working for a very long time to assess whether something is discrimination or not. As chairman, you have to come in a split second with a judgment that weighs very heavily. I'm also saying right away that this was one of the most difficult topics in my note. But I do tell you that it is important that I also give you the opportunity to have that debate through the President. There are some concerns: do I have enough interruptions or not? I think sometimes we should go through that a little bit longer. But it is important to the concerns that live there, and that also live with me, on these three topics, which are very important to me... I think the people who know me know that, too, when it comes to discrimination, but also when it comes to the rule of law and democracy. It is important to have the debate on this and also to represent the sounds that live in our society, Mrs Leijten said. But then, of course, always within the limits I've just indicated. In 8:16, I can be very brief. This is about approving or encouraging unlawful acts. Let us be clear: we are co-legislators. It's not for nothing that we have this article. Of course, it's weird when we stand there and say: you don't have to comply with laws. In addition, in that article I have described a little more broadly that we are not talking about civil servants. Ministerial responsibility: that is what it is all about! When we accuse ministers of something of crime, we must appeal to the crimes of office. We have a procedure for that. So I think we should deal with that more carefully. This also applies to those who are not here, I would say to you, Mr President. Mr Omtzigt has asked an extensive question about this. How do I look back on the debate in which Mr Omtzigt's name was frequently mentioned? I wasn't the chairman then, so I'm not gonna give you some kind of review of that. What I do think is important in the general sense is that we are extra careful about that. We may not always be able to avoid it at all. Sometimes there may be a cause, but I have not written in the note for nothing that it requires extra caution and extra care. Mr President, this is a rather comprehensive introduction, but I think I have answered a few questions. Let me now turn to the anti-legal state. The question by Mrs Hermans, Mr Klaver and Mr Wassenberg was: does the President intervene if the democratic rule of law is questioned? I think I have already said a great deal about this. I experience your call as support in the sense that we can act on it if something happens that I think: well, this may touch on the things I have written down in my note! I'll tell you, I didn't use the words in the note as they were written down for nothing. I value the free speech very much. I also think that we should be careful to smother the debate. That is also what I am saying to the Forum for Democracy; there were words about democracy. I notice that the free word is really important. Of course, as President, you know that that is not an exact science. You reflect on your functioning; so do I. Sometimes you think it could've been one less us. Sometimes you think it's okay to have one more. I do the same as President. But you can rest assured that the free speech is really very important. I think you have experienced me as well, with the exception of a number of situations where we really think differently and I set the line differently. I also noticed this in all discussions with the political groups. Of course, it's always hard to get some kind of common denominator out of all those conversations. I chose to put my vision in that note, but with the confidence that it can rely on a majority in the Chamber. It could have been different. It would still have been my vision, but it would not have been able to rely on a majority in the Chamber. I would like to hear your response to confirm this in the second term, but I have already heard a number of colleagues on this subject in the first period. Then we'll go to a question about vulgar language and swearing. I said something about that. 8.14...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr Van Meijeren is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	It is very good to respond to that from 8.14.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	Sorry, Mrs. Bergkamp. Mr Van Meijeren is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mrs Bergkamp spoke just now about situations where we really disagree about where the border lies. A very topical example that I am genuinely concerned about is that Mrs Bergkamp refused to allow Mr Baudet to table a motion here. That was the first time since the introduction of our parliamentary system. That's never happened before. This was a motion which also dealt with the subject. During his speech, Mr Baudet had argued that the association agreement, which was the subject of a referendum, led, inter alia, to the current situation in Russia and Ukraine. He then asked for a ruling from the Chamber. The chairman said, "I refuse to allow you to table this motion." How does Mrs Bergkamp look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	I do not think we should evaluate debates with each other, but I would like to say something about that in general. It is not the first time that a motion has not been received. It's happened before, so that's not new. What you do as chairman is often a combination of different things. You look at the nature of the debate. Is it an emotional debate? This was a debate about a war that had just begun, and everyone was very upset about it. You try to look at motions and relationships and how you deal with them in such a situation. That's a trade-off. You, through the chairman, also used a different example. We think fundamentally different about comparisons with the Second World War. I didn't put that in the note for nothing. That's okay, but how you act from the point of view of order, from the point of view of dignity, given the debate and the subject, always remains a kind of snapshot. Why a chairman sometimes makes a decision that goes one way, and the other way, is not cut with scissors. I do agree with you, however, that I sincerely believe that you should be cautious about this. It must be a unique situation. There should not be some sort of word police or taste police, but there should not be a motion police. What I would very much like, I hope, is for Mr Van der Staaij to go into this in detail later on. We're filing so many motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	But that wasn't the question. Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	Yeah, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I did not specifically say that a motion was refused for the first time, but that a chairman refused for the first time that a motion could be tabled. I did my own research and also checked it at the Central Information Point. They consulted a professor and said that this has never happened before. Until the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure, there was a requirement that a motion should be tabled by at least four members. At least four members. If there were four Members who supported the submission, the motion could therefore be tabled. When the Rules of Procedure were revised, that requirement was deleted. The reason that was mentioned is that it has become a formality. The reason was not: from now on it is up to the chairman. The President even wanted to ask the Chamber for a ruling in this debate. The President's interpretation of the request of at least four Members up to that time by amending the Rules of Procedure shall be such that a majority of the Chamber is necessary to support the tabling of the motion, but that is never the intention of the Working Party on the Revision of the Rules of Procedure. I can ask Mr Van der Staaij to confirm what the working group intended. However, I do not think it is explicitly intended that a majority of the House should now be required to decide whether or not a motion should be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	Four members have always been enough. This is now being dropped, and for the first time the President has refused to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	Your point is clear. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	Again, it hasn't been the first time. I can remember one more situation myself. The point is, you have to be reluctant about that. I really agree with Mr Van Meijeren. I couldn't agree more. But I do think that the President should have the opportunity to exercise that right in a certain unique situation. I think it is democratic to refer this to the Chamber, but it is not necessary to do so. I agree with you that restraint is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr Van Meijeren, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	Four MPs were always sufficient to support the filing. That demand has lapsed because it has become a formality. Does the President agree that, in future, if there is any doubt as to whether the tabling of a motion is adequately supported, four Members should be sufficient to support the tabling of that motion, as has always been the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	The Rules of Procedure have been amended. That demand is no longer in place. But I do agree with Mr Van Meijeren that it is good to look again at how we deal with this. Once again, as chairman, I think that you should be able to make use of this possibility in a specific situation. But I'm also a real democrat, so I think it's important to see what the Chamber thinks about that at the time. That demand has been dropped, but I would like to assure you that I will take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	You have a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	You say see what the Chamber thinks of that. It is an individual right of each Member of Parliament to ask the Chamber for a ruling. It is now being considered whether a motion for a resolution can count on a majority in the Chamber, but that was never explicitly the intention of dropping that requirement. I will ask Mr van der Staaij again in a moment if he can confirm that, because there is nowhere to be found. I am genuinely concerned about this. It was about Ukraine. It simply asked for a ruling from the Chamber on a position taken during the debate. In my opinion, it is very worrying that this was not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	Finally. The Rules of Procedure state that it must concern the subject matter of the debate. That is simply stated in our Rules of Procedure. It is up to the President to decide whether or not that is the case. At the time, I made the assessment that it was not, but I would like to tell you that I think that this should be handled with restraint. That's all I can actually add.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp the following on the basis of my point to be critical of the language, in particular the rejection of vulgar language, such as curses. My question was: does the President, Mrs Bergkamp, also believe that they should not be admitted to the Acts? I do not mean going back to a body register, but to a form of discipline. In this form you do not sum up everything exhaustively, 'this can and cannot be done', but as President you simply do not allow certain things, especially from the perspective of respect, dignity and courtesy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	I believe that Article 8.14 already gives sufficient scope for this. That's a new article. It's about dignity, about mutual respect. I can remember one incident where a regiment accidentally knocked over coffee and used a swear word. But it scared the hell out of that person himself. We're all people. So it is always bound to the context. But I think that 8.14 gives me enough room to act on it and to say something about it, depending on the situation. This also applies to Members of Parliament, because 8.14 is also an active duty from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	If such a thing happens and such a colleague or ruler immediately repents, then of course we forgive it. But that's actually not the point. The point is to allow the Acts to be recorded in the Acts. Is Mrs Bergkamp prepared to state that it should be an opportunity not to allow this to happen to the Acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	You can see it in me: I'm not very excited about that. We've had a body register. I think it's a bit like that. Well, that's a good thing to say: a body register, that looks like corpses. Words were previously removed from the Acts. That is what was called the body register; by the way, a very nice book was written about it by Mrs Hoetink. I don't see it that way. That's also because of the time we live in. It's already known by videos and everything. I don't really feel like it. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Bishop, finally. You hesitated. You are encouraged to keep things a little short, because we also need to do something else tonight. But you won't be talking too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	I'm as short as I can be. I understand Mrs Bergkamp's hesitation. At the same time, the President is asked to take normative and normative action. This is an instrument to underline this, to deal with it carefully and to actively monitor it. So I'll come up with a motion. I hope, then, that the President will be able to take account of the positive aspects of this, too, in order to see whether her work can be supported in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	I look forward to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr Omtzigt also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	The answer was a little short. I have talked about two debates in which I have been discussed extensively. The first debate was about a photo, but it wasn't about a photo that made me talk about. It was about me being lied to by informers, by scouts, by a prime minister. At that time, Mrs Bergkamp was indeed not President. The second debate was on the minutes of the Council of Ministers, which said that I needed to be sensitized. On behalf of the Chamber, there has not been a very clear response to this. My name has been mentioned 155 times in that Chamber debate. The fact that no one even realizes what that means tells me something. It was that debate I referred to in my text. I would have expected some reflection on how we are going to deal with this in the future. Because if I even mention someone else's name once, I'll be cut off. But the cabinet could make me feel happy. Anyone could find anything. And I didn't need to be contacted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	What I did was to make it very clear in the note that I think we should be very careful with that. We had a conversation about that once. You, through the chairman, have also made it clear to me what its impact is, the impact on someone. So I translated that into a paragraph in the note. So I really think we should be careful with people who aren't there. In the end, of course, we have to look at this from paper to practice, and of course we have to maintain it; that is what is important. I also think that we have done so more over the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	Yeah, but that's why I just asked for a reflection on that debate. And I didn't get it, so I'm actually curious how we all look back on the way that turned out. Because I was allowed to be spoken of for a day. None of the leaders of the party I represented at the time in the Chamber, who at that time all agreed to sensitize me, ever let me know what they thought of it, when I asked all six of them. Neither would any of the reformers ever engage in the conversation personally, and I urged the President-in-Office of the Council to do so. You can lie to me in the Chamber and lie to me in the Chamber, and even do so in Chamber letters, but it never comes back to this. So there's just been 15 hours here talking about me. I've been lied a lot about in two debates. Behind my back, things have happened. And no one ever comes back to it. Now I ask: how do we look back on that? And then the answer is, we weren't presidents. Mrs Bergkamp was the chairman. I should also like to have a reaction from the President to the government about the way in which we are looking back at that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	I apologize for talking about the debate; it was in my system and we talked about it once. I didn't think the question about the other debate was being asked. I cannot say more than what I am saying, namely that I have had a discussion on this with Mr Omtzigt, that the impact of this has become very clear to me, and that I therefore believe that we should pay more attention to this in the future and take greater care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	I conclude here only for a moment that everyone in The Hague, around this debate and also around the first debate, wanted to say a lot of things to the public, but that there is not yet the decency to come back to it privately. That goes for so many parties that it has taken hold of me and also had an effect on me when I was there at home. It was only after that that I called in sick, only after this debate. I believe that neither the cabinet, nor this Chamber, nor the President has been clear in what effect that has had. And I wasn't going to tell you that here today, because I'm keeping that to myself. However, as far as culture is concerned, I would point out that it is important for other people to be open about it once and for all, and that the President of the Chamber also says institutionally and externally: it cannot be that you want to sensitize a Member of Parliament; it cannot be that that happens. You can make people apologize if they are going to use a word like "blasthead," but I do not hear institutional indignation when ministers, who are also MPs, have the guts to turn away from the fact that they have tried to sensitize MPs, which was not particularly gentle. I think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	There is more to be said about it, but it feels a little uncomfortable to respond to it very extensively. We had a conversation about that together. I have also indicated that I have taken a certain amount of action on this, but I am going too far to discuss it very extensively in this debate. But the message is clear. I also see what it does to you, I say through the chairman. That has also led me to believe that we really need to deal with this very carefully in those situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	I really want to see Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	Then there's a personal fact, Mr. Chairman. It is very interesting that after a year I still have to do this and that in that year a number of people simply do not want to come back to it and do not want to say anything about it publicly. No one seems to understand either that your own position in a group after such an event is unsustainable, and that I had to go through with half the speaking time afterwards. I really believe that just doesn't get through here. But it's okay. There's a letter and everything. It's okay, but I just don't think it's possible. I just really don't think it's possible. I'll just keep doing my job, what I've been chosen for, but I do notice that this way it's hard to trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	You've made that clear. Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	I have a somewhat prosaic question about language after this honest deodorization. "Crazy as hell" was mentioned. But if someone is calling a board member in trade union "K" crazy, it's such a hyperbole that it's really not thought that the ruler should be taken to a psychiatric clinic in a straitjacket. I'll give you an idea for something we could enter. When someone says "the minister lies" it should apply: who proves demand, and who claims substance. And I sometimes miss that. There's been a lot of talk. My colleague Van Haga has been called "house milker" here several times, a defaming word. Okay, then prove it. Or tell it outside these walls; that seems to me to be a solution. But if anyone says anything, let him prove it or make it more substantial. I just wanted to give that as a suggestion to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	I think that's a very good suggestion. I also think it would be a good idea to have the debate on this and to ask for it. So I fully share the argument of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	I believe that there was a huge shock wave about the Binnenhof when it became clear that there was talk of a function elsewhere for Pieter Ommzigt, and that it made us all feel unsafe in the depths of our fibers. I would like to give Mr Omtzig a bit of support. It is shocking that we have never, never, ever received a real explanation for this. We're talking about ways of dealing with each other here. Of course, we have to talk about that a lot. But we also know that as an institution we have dealings with the government. I would like to ask the elected President of this Chamber, Mrs Bergkamp, whether it is not insufferable, I would say, but in fact it is'sad' or perhaps 'unwanted' that we have never had a real answer to that. How did it get there, on a piece of paper like that? Because that also says something about the relationship with us, with Parliament, with the parliamentarians. In this case it was Mr Omtzigt, but next time it is Mr Nijboer or Mrs Bergkamp. In fact, as a front we should say: 'Dear Government', explain to us again how it is possible to say 'function elsewhere' about an elected Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	I'd like to think about that. I get the question. I am also thinking of what Mr Omtzigt said about this. We have had a debate on this and another debate on it. If anything has remained there, I would like to think very carefully about what we can do, also in consultation with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	I very much appreciate Mrs Bergkamp's desire to do so. It is about the answer to the question: how does that get there? That it was there, we all turned it down. We have said that it was across the border and we do not want it to be. But how did it get there? I think it's necessary for the analysis. Now, perhaps, that analysis can be made better than at the time. Because we have to understand how something like this happened and how we prevent it. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that the President, Mrs Bergkamp, would like to think about how we can get an answer to this, because that has not yet come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Klaver, do you also have an interruption or are you waiting for a... Or do you want to stretch your legs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	Sit down is the new smoking, so you have to stand as much as you can. I'm still having second thoughts. In fact, much has been said and the President says she wants to think about it. I come forward because I think it is important to support a colleague who has spoken in this way. After that debate, the Chamber adopted a motion of censure. That is the position of the Chamber. But I can imagine that this is more of a suggestion and it is all appropriate afterwards as President to speak with the foreman of this cabinet and say: if this happens to MPs, I will not accept it. That affects a broader point, namely the position of the Chamber at all. The difference between opposition and coalition should not be so great in this, whether it is a govern ment who should be available during Question Time or whether they are directors who talk about MPs in an unacceptable way. I think this is not just the responsibility of the President, but of all of us. We must act together as an institution in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	I'll share that. The moments when you feel and notice the unity are the moments when I find the Chamber the strongest. I say again to Mr Omtzigt and also to a question from Mrs Leijten that you feel that something has remained. I want to think about what we can do in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	You're continuing the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. Moreover, I sent a letter to the directors today on the attendance at Oral Question Time. I shall now turn to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. There is a proposal from Mr Segers and Mr Paternotte. In the note, I suggested that we take another look at Article 8.16. I understand that the proposal has been tabled. It is now with the Working Method Committee. We're just gonna go to trial with each other. That starts with written questions. I'm still thinking about "threatening" and "intimilating." Those are terms that differ. I'd like to think about that, too. But you're just the proposers. It is ultimately up to the proposers to see what they want with that. However, I can imagine that we are making it a little wider than just "threatening/impersonating." But that is ultimately up to the proposers. I think that was also indicated by another Member. In my opinion, Mr Heerma from the CDA asked to see if it would be useful to broaden that a little bit. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other questions. I notice it's kind of nice to work with these folders. Of course, I always sit there in the chair and always see those folders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	You're tempting me to "block" it. We're going to the last folder!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	They're colored folders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	We're going to the last folder, to "other."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	"Blocks" we can't say anymore! Mrs Van der Plas of BBB asked a question about mixed sitting in the room. Rule 8.5 of the Rules of Procedure states that the Bureau is about how we sit together. If a motion for a resolution is adopted, we will of course look at it as a Presidium. It is really a position that we must take as Presidium. As President of the Bureau, I am abstaining for a moment, but I believe that Mrs Van der Plas has announced that there will be a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mrs van der Plas still has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	What do I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	You've got that right, because I'm curious how you look at it. I wrote that in an opinion article two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	I've missed that opinion article again. I'm sorry about that. I always think it's important that there are creative ideas. If anyone has a creative idea, I always hate it when everyone says: it can't be, there are obstacles. I think it is a subject on which we should examine the advantages and disadvantages with each other. As President, it is quite a hassle to manage the votes with so many motions and a record number of political groups. If you have to look at the tuning crisscross, that is quite a limitation. Perhaps Mrs van der Plas says that we do not have to vote. Then the proposal is quite different. I would therefore like to know exactly what Mrs van der Plas' proposal is. If there's a majority for it, we're gonna investigate it and look into it at the Bureau. That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	Okay. Thank you very much, Mrs Bergkamp. I did have another question about speaking time. Sometimes MPs sit at home because of illness. Of course, we certainly noticed that in the corona time. Fortunately, there is very great collegiality in the Chamber, I have experienced, and another party than, in this case also on my behalf, can make the contribution. Last week, for example, Mr Omtzigt did very well during the Ukraine debate. He just didn't get my speaking time. Could anyone who makes the contribution at least get a piece of the speaking time from the Member of Parliament who is not there? Of course, that has to be done under strict conditions, so that someone is actually sick at home and physically unable to be present? Could that be negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	If the Chamber wants us to investigate, we will. Just because I hear it for the first time, I say: I wish that sometimes the debates are a little less long. They must be short, powerful and effective. So I am not looking for solutions in giving more time to groups. I look for it more in the effectiveness of the debates. How can we have a sharper, shorter and more concise debate? Of course, it may be that groups will work more together. It might be a positive incentive. This will help to improve the debate. I would like to have that kind of pros and cons in a row before I can say that it is a very good idea or a bad idea. But this is my first reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	Of course we are. We're already working together this way. Sometimes it happens, especially with many small groups, that you cannot be in a debate because there is overlap. Then we'll work together. It would therefore be nice if the speaking time could be increased a little. That does not have to be exactly the speaking time I normally have, but some of it would of course be nice. I've got some more, if you don't mind the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	Yes, but briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yes. I also think it's really weird that you shouldn't vote when you're not here. One example: last week in the Ukraine debate, I was home with covid. I was at home at the time, although I did sign motions. I have already told the previous President of the Chamber that this is weird. You can just do it electronically, or you can put a screen here and set up a live stream with the "dot, dot, dot" street in Deventer, where I live.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	And then you want to be able to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yeah, I could just raise my hand there. It's gotta be easy. I'd like to point that out for a while. The previous President of the Chamber said that it cannot be done, because it is not in the Constitution. Then I think: logical, because that Constitution was made in 1800- so much and then there were no technologies for it at all. So I don't think that's an argument. Would it be worth considering investigating that, too? 'Cause then I'm thinking about filing something for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	The Van Gent working group is going to investigate what we can learn from the corona crisis. For example, we are talking about a digital quorum and possibly voting. I would like to inform Mrs van der Plas that she can share her idea with the working group. The working group will carry out research and will also look at the Constitution: what can and what cannot be done? He finally comes with an opinion towards the Presidium. Eventually, the Chamber is gonna like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	The word "motion pressure" fell for a while. I believe that was the word. In any case, a word to indicate that we would like us to move a little less often. I can totally understand that. At the same time, it is true that tabling motions is one of the few instruments we have as Chambers when we find a cabinet in front of us that is not really willing to negotiate or be advised. I fully support the fact that we are holding this debate together and I like it, but I think we are still missing an important component in this discussion. Let me be as brief as possible: my question to Mrs Bergkamp is whether she has any suggestions for the Chamber to ensure that we have fewer motions when we are dealing with a cabinet that says 'well, very nice idea, but we are never going to do that'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	There's a lot to say about that. Let me make a few suggestions. I will answer the question of Mr Segers of the Christian Union. A commitment register. It's nice that when you get a commitment, you can see it somewhere. You can tweet about it, I'm just saying. For example, the cabinet members can indicate in the letter "I gave a commitment to Mrs Simons of BET1" so that you can also come back to that. This commitment register will be ready in the autumn. I think that's very nice. That's one of the things that's concrete. The second is cooperation in the filing of motions. I see that sometimes motions are submitted in duplicate, and that is not necessary. Often you also see that motions are being negotiated which sometimes take the form that they no longer have any value, because they already do. They're basically redundant. The most important thing from Mrs Simons' story is, I think, how to get the cabinet to move so that it also listens to the opposition. Then you ask me something I can't realize. I realize that it is very important that with very good ideas, whether they come from the opposition or from the coalition, you have a chance that they will be adopted. The cooperation between opposition and coalition is immensely important. I would like to appeal to the coalition to give some to the opposition, and not crumbs. If the opposition makes a fine proposal that you as a coalition also think about, you don't always have to be the first proposer as a coalition. I believe that this cooperation will enable you to achieve more than what is now being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	Does Mrs Bergkamp think that there is also something to be done on the side of the Bureau or the Registry in the case of double motions? I can predict that it is quite impossible for a single group to consult everyone. In addition, Mrs Van der Plas said that we are often on our way to different rooms, because debates are taking place at the same time. Could anything be done on the part of the Registry or the Bureau when they find that some motions are very similar, concern existing policies or are not feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'm gonna think about that question. The cabinet has an important role to play in this, because it has often received the motions and needs to know what is going on. I'm going to take this back, because I understand that it's very difficult as a one-pitter to review all the motions that have been tabled. I would like to come back to the estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	Okay. Well, that's a deal. If you want to finish your folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes. I'm gonna go right through it. Meeting... Oh, I'll wait until Mrs. Ploumen gets back, because it's her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mrs Ploumen's just standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	Yeah, but it's always so unsympathetic when you see someone running away and just discussing her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	She's just standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	Okay. Then we'll just do that, if Mrs Ploumen doesn't mind. Meeting outside the room. I told Mrs Van der Plas I thought that was a creative idea. It's not like it never happened. I understand that 15 years ago it was tried out through the committees once. I say to Mrs Ploumen: as a Chamber, we do so much that we have to do less to do that sort of thing. This applies to reflection, to having time for legislation. You should also look at ICT and all kinds of other things. There are quite a few bears on the road. I understand the background to what Mrs Ploumen says. I'm always in favour of trying that kind of thing myself, but it's up to the Chamber eventually. It means quite a lot. It costs money, ICT, and you have to take care of things in terms of security. It's really not easy. But once a motion is tabled to investigate that scenario and if the Chamber so wishes, of course I will listen to the Chamber. It's a regular day for legislation. That was a question from Mr Segers and Mr Paternotte. I am in favour of giving more time for legislation at all. That does not mean that we have to do it on a fixed day, because that is a restriction. That means you're less flexible. It all seems so easy, but since I am President, I know how hard they work at the Registry in plenary to make that puzzle fit every time. If I read it in such a way that there should be more room for legislation during the week, then we can do something with it. And whether that's Wednesday, Thursday or Tuesday, shouldn't really matter. That's what we're doing. But when it is said "Friday Fishing Day, Wednesday Legislative Day," you limit yourself as a Chamber. That could mean we have less time for laws, although you might be able to do it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	I have read the Van der Staaij Committee's proposal in such a way that at least one day will be cleared up and, of course, you will take up all the room for legislation, which is an important task for us. The President of the Chamber does not support this point of the committee. I would like to ask her how she would explain that there is now such a huge pile of legislation that is not dealt with in this Chamber, including many own-initiative laws. As a result, the most powerful instrument the Chamber has in time is not supported as strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	A few things about that. By the way, I don't entirely agree. We have done a lot of legislation over the last few years, all kinds of own-initiative laws. So I don't recognize myself in that. I could say 'I cast that far from me', but what Mr Paternotte says is not so intense. We really do a lot of legislation. The second, the question of why we cannot do more, relates to the conduct of the Chamber in the regulation. Debates are often called for and they must take place this week or next week, with all kinds of deadlines. This gives you an agenda that is less flexible. I share the message from the Van der Staaij report to do more about legislation altogether. More ambassadors and more rapporteurs: very good. That's what we have to do. But don't limit it to one day, because then you often have a chance that there is less room for legislation, which we all want. It is also a question of the behaviour of the Chamber not to get it completely close to the regulation, because then there is nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mrs Bergkamp says that these laws are often not dealt with, because the Chamber wants a debate within a week and that frustrates the agenda. Isn't that exactly the argument that the committee is arguing that it should be one day? Unless, of course, there's an emergency. We now have a war situation and, of course, the agenda goes on the shovel. You should basically say we reserve that one day. This clearly indicates that this is the core task of Parliament, that we are the legislator together and that we do not constantly let this get in the way of topicality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	I think, on the contrary, that it means less room for legislation. So I don't share that. I do agree that there should be more room in the agenda at all. I sometimes try to keep a mirror in the scheme by saying: give room to the Griffin in plenary, who always makes that puzzle fit, by not filling it with all kinds of deadlines for certain debates to take place. There is, of course, understanding when there are really urgent debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	I do not understand the argument that there would be less room for legislation if you say "at least one day." It may also be two days or three days for legislation. You should at least have a block of legislation in every working week of the Chamber, which is not overwhelmed by the latest topicality and the last fuss. Then we really take our legislative task seriously. That can be more, but at least not less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u88	I find that much more realistic. I mean that it is not a fixed day, but that we are working on: that week as much legislation as possible. Whether it's in one block in a row, it doesn't matter. The point is that we are doing a lot of legislation in that week. Of course, you also have a number of mandatory things, such as the European summits. There are a lot of fixed things that also determine the agenda. You are also dependent on the rulers who sit here and there. We are doing our utmost to ensure that we deal with more legislation, but also ensure sufficient flexibility in the agenda. I think Mr Segers' idea is good, but not a fixed day. You can see how you plan it, for example in blocks, more flexible over the days. I find that much more realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u89	It is a somewhat painful proposal, because it is a kind of self-protection. We protect ourselves from the fuss we often have when you say that there should be enough room for legislation in every week. That may be an argument: there is a fuss now, so you really have to choose what's most important, otherwise it will go to next week. On this legislative task, the Van der Staaij committee says: take more space and time for it; go through it article by article. We have seen with the premium affair how important it is to ensure that legislation is of sufficient quality. So it's a little self-protection. It is painful to have to, but I think it would be wise to have enough time for that every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u90	Speaking of which, this evening, even own-initiative legislation is on the agenda. It's up to me to guard that we get there tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u91	I'll take the suggestion to the Registry plenary. I think the call is: make enough room for legislation. We'll all share that. That is also Mr Van der Staaij's appeal. Totally. During the past period this worked out very well, but you can also see that the Chamber sometimes actually closes the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u92	I will give Mr Klaver the floor and then you will round off 'other' and we will go to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u93	Yeah, I'm gonna wrap it up real quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u94	I have a very short question. I always lived on the assumption that legislation took precedence on the plenary agenda. Is that right? Unless the Chamber says something else has priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u95	It is not the rule that legislation always prevails. If the Chamber says that there should be a debate on Ukraine, when there is a legislative proposal at the time, it will remain. The Chamber can say by majority: it must then and then. Then it goes first. We will ensure that there is as much room for legislation as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u96	I understand. That is the case tomorrow, for example. That makes perfect sense to me. It's about the basic rule. We have a list of laws and a list of requested debates. I think it would be very good if legislation were given priority. Of course, the majority of the Chamber can always decide, in its wisdom, that another subject must be given priority. That will happen, because the world is not standing still. That's good, too. But it starts with the fact that legislation is always a matter of priority. Something changes in this house is perfectly normal. But at least you'll have the default rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u97	If I may say 'full' during the scheme and not be overruled by a majority. The message is clear. I'm definitely going to discuss it with the Registry in plenary to see how we can make this even more visual. The call is clear. I'm gonna go through a few things a little faster. There was a question from Mrs Hermans and Mr Segers concerning the debate with the Temporary Committee on Implementation Organisations. I agree that the debate has been waiting for quite a long time. This has to do with all kinds of circumstances, such as elections and so on. The committee then took the initiative, at least there was responsibility, and held talks. That's great. It was not so long ago that it was registered for plenary proceedings. My plan is now to hold the debate before the Mayreces, unless I have to put legislation first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u98	Is it okay if Mrs Bergkamp answers the other questions and then there will be an interruption, Mr Segers? If we don't, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u99	There was another question from Mr Dassen about the number of minutes rather than the number of interruptions. Mr Segers also asked for this. I would like to discuss this once with the Working Method Committee. I'm looking at how we're dealing with interruptions anyway. I think that was also a question from Mr Van Meijeren. I just want to take a good look at that. The most important thing, of course, is that they are short and powerful. That was also asked of me: how can you ensure that the cabinet responds correctly? Because sometimes the interruptions go on, because there is not a good answer. I would like to add that you have two tastes: sometimes the cabinet doesn't answer and sometimes the answer doesn't like it. Through the President, I would like to return to you that it is often more difficult for something short and powerful not to answer than for an entire tree. Sometimes I think, "Where does that go?" I'll give you that. Mr Bishop of the SGP asked how the results of the Van der Staaij working group were being taken up. Well, we're on top of that. In a number of cases we have been asked how we are going to implement this: at the Working Method Committee, at Mrs Leijten's Committee on Petitions, at me and at the Registry in plenary. I am very pleased that the ambassadors in the Van der Staaij working group have said that they remain ambassadors and that they are going to make every effort to get what they have written up to grow up. They have said that they will also inform the Bureau of progress in the interim. I'm so glad the ambassadors are doing that. I really like that. This is again work behind the scenes, but it is very valuable that the Chamber itself wants to do so. I'm afraid to answer any more questions about the break-ups. I believe that a motion has been announced on this matter. This really calls for a Chamber ruling on what we are going to do with this. In the past, the Bishop working group has looked at this and we have had evaluations of the Rules of Procedure. If the Chamber wants this to be different, we need a ruling from the Chamber. Then there is an important question from Mr Heerma about security and the signals from the security services. I indicated in the note that I expressed my concerns there. The safety authorities point out that the brutalisation of some of our debates and social media expressions should not be forgotten that social media also often play a very annoying, negative role in this process, so that social relations can be strengthened. This could lead to an increase in the number of threats to MPs and directors. I asked if we could find out more about that. I've asked that question before. I know that the NCTV is focusing on the realisation of a research project that investigates how statements on social media and in the room actually translate into the offline world. I'll keep in good contact with the NCTV, along with the Warden. If more is known about this, I will of course share it with your Chamber immediately. So know that I have expressed my concerns. They have said that they are focusing on the question of whether we can know more about this. They have promised to inform me when that is clear. I'd like that very much. Well, at least you've got a little bit of objectivity in that, too. That is what Mr Heerma has often said. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions, unless I have failed someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Heerma has a question on this point. Mr Segers was earlier, but that wasn't about this point. Mr. Heerma first. I think that's useful. Then there is Mr Segers and then there is Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u101	In the letter, the President states that more research is needed. I interpreted that in such a way that the President felt that the Chamber should investigate it itself. I understand now that the NCTV is in the process of orienting itself. Can the President explain a little more about the time limit for action? If the NCTV is oriented, it indicates that they take this very seriously. In theory, that can also take two years, so to speak. There are concrete examples of debates in the past year where two weeks later you were suddenly told: the person is threatened and needs security. I increasingly see a direct relationship there. I find it a little uncomfortable to wait, if the NCTV might take a very long time. Can the President say a little more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u102	I hope that Mr Heerma will agree with me to check the deadline at the NCTV before I make a suggestion about it myself or fill it in. I don't think this is something that takes a very long time, but I want to check with the NCTV. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u103	Then I would like the President to return to that point, either in this debate or at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u104	It's gonna be a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u105	If this is going to take a long time, is the President prepared to consider whether this can be investigated from the Bureau or by any other means himself, if necessary by talking confidentially to people who have done so? I understand when people who are threatened by their expressions and by what is happening here in the debate do not tend to say something about it publicly again. Maybe they'd like to do that in a private setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u106	I think that's a good suggestion. Let me first see when it comes, because it is of course very nice that there is such an investigation. If we conclude with each other "this takes a while," we can always conclude that we have to do it ourselves or in another way. But first, let me check where it's at in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u107	That's okay. At what time does the President expect to be able to come back to that? It also potentially has consequences for the filing of motions, voting behaviour, etc. There is a proposal for the Rules of Procedure. I think it may be necessary to make additional adjustments in this respect, but it is necessary to have a little more insight into this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u108	What I can do is... Let's see, what day is it today? It's Wednesday, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u109	Today's Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u110	Today's Wednesday. The Registrar also has regular contact and I can see if we can find a deadline next week. Then I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u111	Next week, the Chamber will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u112	I would like to come back to the report of the Bosman Committee, the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations. There has been a great deal of reference to it and a great deal has been said about it, because of course it really affects what it has been a lot about over the past year, the implementation. The President, who is standing there, says: we are going to schedule it. Only it wants to be a committee whose members are no longer members of the Chamber. There is a lot of work in it and there is a lot of knowledge with them. I would therefore like to consider whether it is not a form that we could also have the discussion with the committee or the committee chairman. That doesn't have to be a precedent. But since it is such an exceptional situation in this case, it can do justice to the work of the committee. Normally we talk here or there's a committee here that we can ask questions about. We can talk about that then. So I'd like to see a role for that committee somewhere. We do not need to take that entirely into account now, but I would really like to give that very serious consideration to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u113	Thank you to Mr Segers for the question. I understand that the committee has been talking to at least Mr Bosma. So that meeting's over. Of course, I would very much like to invite the committee to attend the debate. However, I would not like to give rise to the expectation that we will soon have Members or former Members of Parliament who are holding the debate, even though they do not actually have status. It is not subject-K and it is not the General Court. That they would then have a debate with the House of Representatives, I find a really strange figure and I am not the only one in it either. We discussed this with each other twice at the Bureau and concluded this with each other each time. I also find it annoying to awaken an expectation that I can't live up to. Again, I think it is a very important report. I'm also telling you honestly that I would have preferred that we'd have handled it faster. And all the cachet for the makers. I would also very much like to invite them to the President's Lodge, but the debate must be conducted with the Cabinet and the Members of Parliament among themselves. As President, we have also concluded that twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u114	The case is that my group is not in the Bureau. So that could indeed have contributed to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u115	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u116	No. Excuse me? I mean, it is what it is. We should have gotten bigger in the election, because we would have been in it. But I find it uncomfortable that we are asking a committee at a very important point to do its work and that we then actually have no rule or way to have the conversation about it and ask questions. There is indeed a debate to be held, but I am still looking for a way in which we really do justice to that committee. Those were members from among us and that really has a different status than random people coming by. We also have members of the political groups there in the case of own-initiative laws. So all kinds of people can sit there. Well, at least it's an uncomfortable point for me that they have to watch while they've done the work, partly on our behalf and on our behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u117	I'm thinking about it like I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u118	Do you have a question on this point, Mrs Leijten, or on another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u119	I say to Mr Segers that we have really given it a lot of thought. Even we have had some contact about it and in the Bureau we have also discussed it a few times. Yeah, this is a figure... With all due respect, it has nothing to do with disrespecting the people of that temporary committee. In fact, I have a lot of respect for all this work. But it's a little different from this solution, which is to get people to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mrs Leijten and Mr Heerma, both on this point. Mrs. Leijten first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u121	I actually wanted to make the point that we have already spoken to the Bosman Committee and that the Committee on the Interior has made a whole process. I do not know if Mr Segers is hearing this now; he had a fervent plea. The Committee on the Interior has already spoken extensively with the Bosman Committee. There has been a written round in which we have asked questions and we have discussed it, both with the Van der Staaij Committee and with other implementations and effects of motions. The suggestion that the Chamber did not discuss or wish to speak on the Bosman Committee's report is simply incorrect. We've already had them visit the House of Representatives. In fact, we should call on parliamentary groups to put the members they include in temporary parliamentary committees on the list of candidates, because that would allow them to defend it. In the end, there was never a debate with the Van Dam committee, but also with the government. The Chamber itself is therefore responsible for these activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Heerma and I would like to conclude on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mrs Leijten is making a somewhat painful point for the CDA group, because whoever was on that committee is just on hold right now. But it is a fact that the members of the entire committee were partly not on lists and partly in unelected places. It's good to hear that the BZK committee will pick it up. I think that is in line with Mrs Leijten's own plea, because it is about the point she made in the first term. However, I think that this report is so fundamental to all the debates on implementation, on the way in which the government operates, that I do need to see if there is still a way to conduct the debate with this committee here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mrs Bergkamp said what she said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yeah, I've said all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u126	Did Mr Omtzigt have another interruption at Mrs Bergkamp? And then Mr Paternotte. Mr Omtzigt was before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u127	I just wanted to join what Mr Heerma just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u128	Oh, that's totally good. Mr. Paternotte joins us. Does Mrs Hermans have another point? Oh, also at this point. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr President, I say to Mrs Bergkamp through you. I'm trying to figure out if there's another form I haven't figured out yet. Perhaps we can make the agreement here that we can discuss and discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u130	I never say no to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u131	To be continued. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u132	I had asked Mrs Bergkamp in her capacity as President of the Chamber how we now proceed with the conclusion of the Van Dam committee, not only with the fact that, as Mrs Leijten said, we did not formally have a debate with the committee. The conclusion was that the rule of law has failed, including the legislator. The legislator, that's us. That raises the question of whether we can take some improvement measures, on language, threats, on which the President has rightly written a letter to the Chamber, I say to the deputy chairman. The report by the Van der Staaij committee on 'what is good and what can be better' is also very useful, but that basic question has not been asked. Shouldn't that question be asked separately? Or does the President think that we are simply doing our job well and that the lessons have now gone through?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u133	Let me say a few words about this very briefly and give Mr Van der Staaij the floor. That's kind of the division we've made. It is not for nothing that I asked Mr Van der Staaij last year: look at all the reports that are there, please do not reinvent the wheel, but see what we can learn from all those reports. That has resulted in a very nice report, I think, that we should now get to maturity. So I share what Mr Omtzigt says. I really think there is something to be gained when it comes to our controlling and legislative task. This is perhaps a nice little bridge to Mr Van der Staaij. I think it would be very nice if he would pay more attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u134	But Mr Omtzigt has one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr Van der Staaij has done a great deal of work, but in the report and also in the President's memo the basic question is not whether we are able to do our legislative and executive tasks. I have tried to say that I have personally reflected on the fact that I have been with all the supplement legislation and that I have been here for ten years before it was clear what went wrong. I would like to make very long speeches whether it is the legislation or implementation, but that is not interesting at all. Something thorough and horrible went wrong somewhere while I was sitting there. Apparently, I didn't do my job well when I was a Member of Parliament. I'm just really open to that. I do not think that will be corrected by a slightly better committee chairman or by rapporteur work. I think that all of these are good proposals, so that's not what I'm talking about. However, I believe that the question should be asked whether tomorrow we will be able to adopt legislation that is not working at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u136	That is indeed a very essential question. I think we really have something to gain there. The child care allowance affair is, of course, a confirmation that we did not do well, with each other, with all the High Colleges of State it has been a very broad failure. So it would be strange for this President to say: it is going well; there is nothing to improve. I think that we are now trying to do a number of things and try to put them into practice, which will enable us to do our job better. I think that is a very important question, a very essential one. This means spending more time on legislation. This means that we need time for legislation with rapporteurs, because of course we have much less large groups. It is also divided into many less large groups. There is a real bottleneck there, which makes these rapporteurs particularly important. But we also have to look at how it lands there. I also see many more possibilities once it has been introduced. Are we getting enough signals? Are we gonna pick it up enough? There's a whole world behind that. I think it would be very good if we continued the discussion on this again, because that affects the essence of our work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u137	I actually wanted to move on to Mr. Van der Staaij, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u138	I should like to make a final point, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u139	But a very short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u140	The legal process, as well as the Council of State, on which we have had a great deal of criticism, have both raised these questions. They actually wrote reflection reports wondering where their own failure was. They started from there with the question: what else should we do? We in the Chamber didn't do that. We have adopted a motion which says that we regret it, but we have not asked ourselves very deeply what we have done wrong and what we can learn from it. We simply said right away: we are taking some improvement measures. Wouldn't it be appropriate to do that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u141	We also have, of course, the parliamentary survey which will look specifically at the role of the House of Representatives. I think that's a very important one. In the broad sense, I think we should look at the points I have just mentioned, but in this parliamentary survey the role of the House of Representatives is particularly essential. That is what I said at the time of the installation of the people who are now preparing. We need to look at what we can learn from that. I'm totally sharing that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you for your first-term response. We're gonna need some cleaning first. I'm gonna turn off the sound to keep people from gripping sounds. What a rotten sound it's always going to be. I call Mr Van der Staaij, chairman of the working group, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The President of the Chamber has just bridged this part of our discussion today, namely: how can we strengthen the performance of the functions of the House of Representatives? The President of the Chamber gave us the mandate shortly before the summer of last year to develop practical proposals to strengthen these functions. We have tried to do a quick job. We have already produced the report before the end of last year and translated the findings into a practical work agenda, with which the Chamber can work directly and to some extent has already gone. The President of the Chamber has just explained the different ways in which it will be followed up. A kick-off meeting with the committee chairmen is planned shortly. The working group then goes to the committees at the procedural meetings to provide a further explanation. This will serve as a starting point for the further implementation of the recommendations in the committees. Mr. Chairman. When I speak of 'we', you have already mentioned this at the beginning. I am also talking about Mrs Kamminga, Mr Sneller, Mr Geurts, Mrs Leijten and Mrs Van der Plas. I found it very nice to note that in the Chamber there is broad enthusiasm to strengthen the Chamber as an institution, to parties from the opposition and the coalition, to small groups and large groups, to people who have been around here for a little longer and to people who came in new. I find that encouraging. When we were just getting started, we saw a large stack of reports, which produced a lot of concrete recommendations. The report of the Bosman Committee has already been mentioned, but I can also mention the Council of State, the Remkes State Commission, and so I can go on. We said to each other: it is crucial that it does not become a report that everyone says "good that everything is written down again; we go back to the order of the day." We were wondering how we could hold it and move it forward. The working group has declared itself willing to continue to play a role in this, to insert the thermometer from time to time to see how it goes. But we also thought it important that there really are ambassadors in the Chamber who want to help this further. Hence the form of the kick-off meeting and the role of the committee chairmen. It's not about this report. The point is that we believe together that we can do better, that we learn from what has not been good or good enough in the past. That's the angle we've got. As a working party, we are also very much supported by an excellent official staff. Mrs Hessing-Puts, the Registrar, Mrs Stroeker, Mr Loeffen and Mrs Meijer helped us to do this. I would like to emphasise them, because it is very important for the functioning of the Chamber as an institution that we have good support, not only as political groups, but also as a Chamber as a whole. We are already reaping the benefits of this. We have made concrete suggestions to further that. We have remained within the limits of the Rules of Procedure. We have a very nice toolbox of instruments, but we don't always use them well enough. There's more. We can use it smarter and more strategically, and we can work together even better. This is particularly important in a Chamber which consists of many groups. That's even closer. The point is that we join forces and divide tasks. The rapporteur has already been mentioned several times. We must also take a critical look at what we can do less, such as tabling fewer motions. That is not an end in itself, but we can appreciate the commitments and better monitor the motions that are being adopted so that they are carried out properly. That's why this concentration is important. The legislation has already been appointed. Give more space for that and a time block, such as a regular meeting day. That was a concrete suggestion, which was also raised in their contributions by Mr Paternotte and Mr Segers. An ancient wisdom is that the whole is more than the sum of its parts. This also came back a number of times in the debate. This requires strengthening the role of committees, Parliament's workhorses, and a balanced plenary agenda. In short, strengthening the functions of the Chamber will be beneficial if existing instruments, advice and good examples are used better, if members are to cooperate more intelligently and if choices are to be made and priorities strengthened. Important preconditions are, of course, also the attitude and manners of behaviour, which we have discussed in detail today. Mr. Chairman. A President-in-Office sometimes says: I already smell dinner. I will hold my enthusiasm and not even greater introductory remarks. I shall quickly go to the specific questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u144	That sounded like music to me, but Mr. Paternotte...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u145	I absolutely agree, but I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij another overarching question as part of the introduction. Of course, many excellent recommendations have come from the work of the committee, for which I am extremely grateful. That work is also very useful to the House of Representatives. What does he think of the committee's most important proposal, which we really cannot avoid?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u146	We said ourselves: the crux is not in one or two things where we preach revolution and then it will be fine, but actually also in the following red threads that run through it. Look further ahead to forthcoming legislation. Strengthen the discussion in committees. Put more structure into controlling the government. In legislative control, more systematically discuss the perspective of the citizen. Work on the relationship between Chambers, Departments and Implementation Organisations. Provide sufficient official support. Get the necessary expertise. Those are actually the most important red wires.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u147	The questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u148	The President of the Chamber has already addressed the question of the position of the splitters. As I said, we have looked in particular at the functions of the Chamber as a whole and less at the support of individual Members. As the President of the Chamber pointed out, of course, the Chamber can always ask for an evaluation of what was proposed by the Bishop working group a few years ago. That was adopted by the Bureau and accepted by the Chamber. Mrs Hermans asked: what possibilities do we see to give implementation a solid place in the work of the Members of Parliament? That is indeed an extremely important point: take implementation seriously. We say: "In the legislative task, pay attention to the implementation aspect of legislation and new policies. This can be done by taking good note of implementation tests, by critically examining the implementation tests that the government will pass one year after the introduction of new legislation and policies, and also by keeping an eye on target groups of legislation and implementation. Thus, the legislative, controlling role can be properly carried out." In fact, you can see that we also make concrete suggestions for this in many places in our reports. I will not repeat them all, but I will refer to round tables, hearings and work visits. For example, it is about making better use of an instrument such as parliamentary exploration. That is actually a bit between a very large research and a single question. Also make practical working arrangements to make it easier to get in touch with implementation organisations and to make better use of experience and contacts with citizens in the implementation of recommendations. I mentioned it in the implementation test and the implementation test. Mr Dassen asked for speaking time for interruptions. The President-in-Office of the Council has already dealt with this. It is good to repeat from time to time that interruptions must be short and concise in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is already very helpful to have as tight a hand as possible. Could a code of conduct be desirable when it comes to social media debate in particular? That is, of course, difficult, because we do not have a chairman in the social media debates. It is also hard to follow if, in addition to the debate, we have a kind of second screen here. I think you actually saw that today, too, it's useful that we address each other when you're unhappy with what's happening on social media. I also think it is useful that we, as parties, feel responsible for what happens in our own party through people who perform a function and who address them. So also talk to each other about it. Take your own responsibility seriously. We also say: discuss the subject of good practices from time to time in the Chamber, as a whole, as we do today, and in regular consultations between the President of the Chamber and the committee chairmen. For those who still need some flooring: former Chamber Chairman Vondeling is often cited when it comes to "lime or lion." But he also wrote an interesting booklet in 1978, namely Schijn des evils: reflections on the rules of conduct of politicians. In it, he said that parties are largely responsible for the behaviour of their delegates. That's also useful to realize. The report is very readable. So as far as it hasn't happened yet, for example, the report can simply be discussed in group meetings. Then you can have nice rules of your own, for example about curbing motions. If there are Members who make more than two motions each time in debates, simply order them to treat them during the group meeting. Maybe that'll help. So there are still a lot of possibilities for groups themselves to take responsibility for not putting it all on the board of the Chamber as a whole. The role of committee chairmen. How can more weight be given to the role of committee chairmen? That's what Mr Bishop asked. Well, we mention as examples the discussion of the legislative agenda at the procedural meeting, attention to legislative quality, departmental notes, and monitoring the receipt of those letters, notes or other information from the cabinet. At the same time, the committee chairmen could play an active role as ambassadors for strengthening the Chamber's functions and play a possible role when strategic procedural meetings are held, as we propose. At these kick-off meetings, we also want to talk about the fact that the procedural meetings are not a sort of corvee to discuss some of the government's letters, but that from time to time it is actually being done. Those meetings are also the backbone of committee work somewhere. How can we, in such a procedural meeting, play our legislative and supervisory role even better? What will come of legislation? How do we deal with that? There's still a world to win. With regard to the tabling of amendments and motions, Mrs Ploumen rightly asked how restricting the submission of motions relates to the individual right of Members. We do not interfere with Members' rights to make motions. We have only tried to name what is actually normal in the opinion of many groups in this Chamber or if we are critically considering it with each other. So it came out that we said: certainly with a lot of groups, you could in fact combine forces and work together in practice very often with those one or two motions per Member as a maximum. Of course, everyone is free to say: yes, but this is a very important subject for us; I have a good reason to do a lot more. Once again, however, we wanted to make this clear as a guiding statement rather than as a restriction of rights. That is not what we have done. Mrs Ploumen also asked if I believe that debate on incidents is important. As a working party, we have also stated in our report that, in order to better exercise the supervisory function of the Chamber, a more structural way of monitoring is appropriate, but that does not preclude the debate on incidents. I see with Mrs Ploumen that this can have its value and meaning. We are not excluding it, but we are stressing the importance of this more structural way of monitoring. In fact, we would like to be even more ahead of it and say that we ourselves have already identified in our systematic control role what can be better done in contact with the citizen, and we do not really need to debate this big newspaper story now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u149	How far have you come in your response? You set the right example briefly and concisely; I will give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u150	I answered seven ninths of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u151	You're seven-niner. Then we'll move on to nine-niner and then we'll do the questions. I am telling you quite frankly that I have been told by the Registry what must be about the end of this debate in order for the legislation to pass this evening. My proposal would be to get on with it, but that means that there will soon be just one minute of speaking time to table motions and that you will not get any more interruptions in the second period. You will soon have the opportunity to ask questions to Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mrs Ploumen also asked whether we believe that responsibility for providing good information is primarily the responsibility of the cabinet. Yes. We can all dream of Article 68 of the Constitution. It states that it is the government's responsibility to provide the Chamber with good information. In the cabinet response to the report Unfamiliar injustice of the parliamentary interrogation committee Children's care allowance, commitments were also made on structural improvements in the provision of information to the Chamber. That is all being further worked out. In doing so, it is important that the Chamber itself does even more work on its own information position, so, for example, check whether the information is complete and does independent research. As far as we are concerned, that is the useful addition to that primary responsibility that the government itself naturally has. Mr Omtzig asked for external research into the functioning of the Chamber's core tasks. Wouldn't that be important, too? As a working party, we have said the following. We already have a bunch of reports on what went wrong in the past, and with the parliamentary committee of inquiry we are going to work even further to look back at what went wrong, for example, in the childcare allowance affair. So we have now sought our strength, above all, in putting forward concrete proposals to further strengthen our tasks. In the case of legislation, which Mr Omtzig referred to in particular, this applies both to the preparatory phase and to the treatment of legislation as well as to the way in which we deal with legislation once it is there. It therefore looks at all these different stages of the legislative process and the introduction of legislation. Mr. Chairman. The last question was whether I could reflect on the remark that there should be no mention in a debate of persons who are not present in the debate. For the sake of clarity, I agree with what the President-in-Office has already said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u153	Thank you very much. Then there are a number of questions, which will be brief and concise, so that we follow your advice. Mr Van Meijeren asks the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u154	As I have already announced, my question concerns the practice of tabling motions. We saw last week that Mrs Bergkamp refused to have someone file a motion. Until the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure, at least four members had to support the submission. That requirement of support has fallen, I understand, because it had become a formality, not to change the practice. How does Mr Van der Staaij view that, now that there is no new rule in place, it seems to be an unwritten rule that the chairman determines whether a motion may be tabled, and that, in doubt, a majority of the Chamber should determine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yeah, it's changed. That requirement for support has expired, because it was often a formality on the one hand and sometimes caused confusion on the other, namely: what do you mean if you support a motion? Those were the two reasons. At the same time, there was some concern at the time when the House was being treated, or that might mean that there is nothing more you can do against motions if they contain insulting language and the like. That was said at the time: no, because you also pronounce the motion and the provision which generally applies to what can and cannot be done in the Chamber also applies to the tabling of motions. The most important point here is something that was and has remained in the Rules of Procedure, namely that motions must always relate to the subject under discussion. There was some discussion about that in the past. There's some discussion about that now. There is therefore no change, whatever the Chamber intended at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u156	Mr Van Meijeren, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u157	That is indeed the criterion. It must relate to the subject under discussion; absolutely. The only question was whether this was the case, so at least four members of the Chamber were always present. When the request for support was made, it never happened that there were four Members who supported the motion, but that the President then decided that the motion should not be tabled. How does Mr Van der Staaij assess the fact that the opinion is now up to the President at once, even if 70 Members of the Chamber would support the tabling of a motion? That number used to be four. But now the President can decide that a motion cannot be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u158	It must be on the subject under discussion. It has also given rise to debates, and this is still separate from motions for resolutions, when a chairman said that this is not the case. You can see that the whole of history has sometimes been the result of extensive discussions. So it's not a new criterion. If this remains the subject of concrete discussion, I think it would be better to have an exchange of views with the real President-in-Office or the President-in-Office on "why is this so?', Then you're asking for reflections again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u159	I actually want to move on to the second term of the Chamber. But now comes Mrs. Van der Plas. Mr Omtzigt is also coming. We really need to... If you all want legislation, we must also make legislation possible tonight. We've had a lot of interruptions. I'll give you both one more question. Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u160	But, Mr President, that is exactly what we are debating. We ask questions as a chamber. They won't be answered. We do so in our contributions, so that we do not have to interrupt constantly. In this case, it's not about something huge, like the cabinet's sitting there. We've all made a contribution. We like it when Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van der Staaij come back to that. And if they don't, that doesn't have to be unwilling, then we'd like to ask: how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u161	You will have exactly the opportunity to do so. Exactly for that reason!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u162	Very nice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my speech, I asked a number of questions concerning the Bureau, the Presidency, the fact that we as a Chamber do not really have any instruments to attend an event or an issue with a President, to complain or to evaluate the Presidency. My question was: does the Bureau Presidency evaluate? What instruments could we, as a Chamber, use when we believe that a President is not acting as such in accordance with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u163	The Presidents shall be elected by the Chamber itself. They do their work in all conscience. That function should not be politicised. The Presidents shall be independent and shall determine the order of the debate on the basis of the instruments provided for in the Rules of Procedure. There is no procedure for discussing the role of the Presidents other than in the debate itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u164	Then I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij whether he thinks it is a good idea that there will be such instruments. Of course, it is very nice that the Presidents talk or talk about committee meetings or other meetings, but this leaves the individual Members of Parliament in the cold when something happens. That doesn't just happen in this room. As you know, I speak from experience when I say that there are situations in which Presidents, in any Chamber of this House, behave in such a way that I, as a Member of Parliament, have the need to return to this matter in substance or to express my displeasure at least in substance and officially.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u165	It is perhaps good to recall that I am standing here as a working group which has put forward a number of proposals for improving the functioning of the House of Representatives. In this context, we have not come across the omission that we have nowhere to go with complaints about the President, quite the contrary. As a working group, we have said: beware that you are debating too much in debates about the President's choices. That is precisely what could affect the debate. If Mrs Simons has any proposals for this, I would like to say to Mrs Sylvana that she is always free to submit them herself and ask the House's opinion on them. I just think that doesn't fit in with my role in this working group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u166	I really want to go to the second term now. Mr Omtzigt has one more question and then we can go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u167	Two questions, Mr. Chairman. The first is on which report there is indeed a large stack of reports on the Court of Justice which has asked whether we are able to carry out our core task fundamentally well. That task is to be a co-legislator and to control the government, which very often hides very big things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u168	It is not that there is a report that has formulated this question so literally and found the answer. However, in the final report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System of 2018, the final report of the Temporary Commission on Implementing Organisations of 2021, the unsolicited opinion of the Council of State on ministerial responsibility and the report Rijk on knowledge of the Advisory Council on Science, Technology and Innovation and so on, we have found omissions on many points. Where they have been identified, we have tried to come up with proposals for reinforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u169	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u170	On the contrary, the POK concluded that the rule of law had failed and that the legislator was involved. Since then, no one has said whether that is true or whether it is verified. I would have liked that to be discussed in the report. I would also like it if at least something had been said about how to deal with splitters, although I welcome the opening that might be evaluated. But it was one of the things I said in the conversation. So it would have been nice if something had come up, not that I'm right or wrong, but I would have thought it logical if it had come up in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr Omtzigt is free to have his views, his views on what is important for the strengthening of the Chamber as an institution. We can find each other on a lot of points. On other points, he will say: this is a very important and important point for me. I understand that very well from his personal situation. From, for example, the childcare allowance affair, we have, of course, learned a lot of lessons with each other about what needs to be improved. Think of the whole cabinet response that was published at the time as a result of the parliamentary report and of what we have now recommended, for example, on how we can make the legislative role much stronger. How can we also better ensure that, with all that is in us, I repeat, we try to prevent what has happened? We have all said of this: what a pity it has happened and terrible that people have suffered so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you, Mr Van der Staaij, for your answer in the first term and for all your work as a committee, also on behalf of Mr Segers and Mr Eerdmans, who both...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u173	A well-deserved applause, or a ruffle, as it is called in parliamentary history. So a well-deserved ruffle for your commission and for the support. I give the floor to Mrs van der Plas for her second term. I really want to call you to do it in a minute, because then we can deal with the own-initiative legislation tonight. We have also had an extensive debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thank you. I'm gonna try to do it in a minute. I just wanted to say that I thought it was a good and positive debate. I would also like to say that I myself am extremely proud that I was allowed to be part of the Van der Staaij Committee. With a nestor like Mr Van der Staaij allowed to work, I found one of the highlights of the last year I was in the Chamber. I have great respect for Mr Van der Staaij, as calm as he is speaking here now. We can all take an example of this. I have 25 seconds left for two motions, so I have to read very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas any division of the Icelandic Parliament shows positive results in terms of polarisation, handling and relations between its members;]] [[calls on its Bureau to arrive at a random classification of the House of Representatives after the summer recess as a one-year experiment, taking into account aisle access of group chairmen and placement of larger groups, and to evaluate this experiment at the end of parliamentary year 2022/2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on its President to examine whether Members of Parliament who are also speaking on behalf of another political group can use part of the speaking time of the political group on which they are speaking and to inform the Chamber before the summer so as to encourage cooperation and efficient debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-2]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u175	It is important to have good contacts, even if the debate is solid. It's not my experience that the seat is an obstacle to that. Anyway, I'm open to any proposal. My only question is: how should the President take the vote properly when everyone is sitting in a hut? That is the kind of practical question I do have. I am very sympathetic to any proposal to improve relationships, as long as we keep putting the content first. But then I think: how is the President going to count the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u176	I am not so much asking for all people to be mixed up. They can also be fractions, so the unusual suspects side by side, for example BBB next to the Party for Animals or BBB next to GroenLinks. It can also be on a fraction. In the motion, I'm actually asking for an experiment, and then it's up to the Bureau to see how we're gonna do that experiment. That's the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you very much. I call Mr Ephraim on behalf of the Van Haga Group. Mrs Van der Plas spoke on behalf of BBB, but that is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the temporary residents of trade union K for their answers and thanks to the Van der Staaij committee. You understand that in my two minutes I did not have time for that, but I thank you. I have one short motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that there will be a trial in which requested debates supported by the full opposition will be presented as a full debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u179	A brief explanation. If the government has too much control over the Chamber and the political groups and dualism fail, then there must be a control mechanism so that the Chamber can do its controlling work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you. That was short and concise. I call Mr Paternotte, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you to the President of the Chamber, the President of the Chamber and, of course, the Van der Staaij working group for facilitating this debate and to Mrs Van der Plas for the initiative. I greatly appreciate the President's work to make legislation possible tonight. That also indicates how uncomfortable that is sometimes. In this respect, we support the proposal made by the working group. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislative function is at the heart of Parliament's constitutional function;]] [[Whereas in order to carry out that task properly, there must be sufficient time in the plenary schedule;]] [[Whereas the report "Strengthening functions of the Second Chamber, more than the sum of its parts," recommends that one day on the schedule be reserved for the examination of legislation;]] [[calls on the Bureau to hold a trial until the summer recess, each Wednesday reserved for the examination of legislation and to evaluate this test after the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mr. Chairman. I said that a debate on the fuss rewards the fuss, that it also rewards those who make the fuss about the fuss and that we forget to talk about the content. Is it pointless to talk about us as a parliament? Not at all. That is what we are doing when we come to the estimates, and I hope for a warmer interest next year in the estimates. These are often the debates with proposals made by the newspaper, which the SP Group sometimes thinks: should we get the newspaper? The plea made today by the SP is that the Chamber is more than a sum of parts. It must be about content and about problems in the country. You have to be able to manage it well. And in order to get it right, you don't just have to talk about form and imagery, because before you know it, you make the form more important than the content. I think that could be the pitfall of a debate like this. Nevertheless, I thought it was a good debate. Greetings to this room's engine room. That is what I said in the election of the President. We could not do our job without the official support we have. Let us all realise that we are passers-by here and that we must ensure that, when we are no longer here, the Chamber as an institution can continue with dignity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. I call Mr Klaver, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u184	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. I will read it to you, but not before I thank our colleagues in trade union K, but also you, President of this sitting. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Parliament is the place where the rules of the democratic rule of law allow different world views and positions to clash strongly on the content;]] [[Considering that these democratic rules themselves have recently been called into question by the suspicion of journalists and scientists, calls for persecution and imprisonment of political opponents, undermines the authority of the law and the law enforcement authorities and does not respect democratic decisions;]] [[considers that parliamentary rights should not be used to undermine the democratic rule of law;]] [[points out that in order to undermine the democratic rule of law there should be no place in the parliamentary debate and that action by the President of the Chamber is of great importance and is fully supported,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u185	I had already announced the last motion in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine has been the largest war of attack on the European continent since the Second World War and that many civilian casualties have since fallen and large groups of civilians are trapped in besieged areas and have barely access to basic necessities;]] [[noting that there is a party in our parliament that qualified Russian military action as extremely mild and described Putin as a model of mildness;]] [[Considering that this party refuses to condemn the invasion of Russia in Ukraine and calls into question the existence of Ukraine as a nation state;]] [[Notes that it is highly undesirable for a party that chooses Russia to receive confidential information about the situation in Ukraine and the Western acts in relation to this war;]] [[Calls on the Presidency to exclude members of the Forum for Democracy from confidential technical briefings and otherwise confidential information on the situation in and around Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u186	I find this... To be quite honest, I really regret this motion, because I think it is touching on the foundations of our democratic system and that every voice you cast on it is going to be framed. The SP has its thoughts on, for example, the secret committee and the supervision of the intelligence services. We certainly also have reservations about confidential briefings. But to exclude a parliamentary group from access to knowledge that is important to our control function... Maybe that's legitized on these grounds, but what grounds are there going to be in the future? I am struggling very strongly with this motion and where it can lead. That is independent of the fact that we will reject what Forum is doing in the debate, because that is what this is about, and of the fact that we will also confront them with the statements that it would all be mild towards the population. But I think that what Mr Klaver is proposing really goes a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u187	The observation that this goes far is correct. This is going a long way. I have long doubted whether you should do this, but our group believes that this is the only step you should take, especially in a situation like this. This is the biggest war of attack on our continent since World War II. If there are parties who do not only have a different view, which I do not agree with so much, but really take the side of the aggressor clearly, I think we should deal with it very carefully. If confidential information is already shared, I do not think it should end up there. Questions like "what does that mean for the future?" And "how does this go on?" are all true and yet I think we should make this choice now. That is why I put this to the Chamber and it is up to everyone to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u188	I would actually like to move on to Mrs Hermans, but Mrs Leijten would like to make one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u189	I really think this is going a long way. In the past, we have had a lot of debates about war and peace, where there were different positions. There have been parliamentary groups that have described aggressive interventions in other countries in a certain way. I wouldn't think it right to say: you're not in favour of the alliance, so you're not getting any more information. The same information must also be available to a party which has a very displeasure opinion, which we must debate. I also think that this is a democratic principle. I am going to discuss it in my group, but I do not know whether such a motion should be so clear and necessary in order to record so democraticly the point made by Mr Klaver; I think that we are getting very far in moral terms about access to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you. Mrs Hermans has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for chairing and thanking Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van der Staaij for all the answers in this debate about our debate and our practices and how we can strengthen our position. That is both necessary to do what we were chosen to do: to solve problems and to make the country a little better. We can only do this if we have a strong and dignified debate with each other. The note written by Mrs Bergkamp provides a basis for this. It gives guidelines and guides to conduct this debate with each other in a good way. I would like to repeat once again that the VVD supports the note and that approach. It'll start with ourselves. It starts with what we say ourselves, at what pitch we do it and what words we use. It also requires something from ourselves. It requires us to address each other and draw boundaries. In that context and having heard Mr Klaver's motion, I would like to stress once again that I support and appeal to the President to intervene in that grey area, but that does not replace the responsibility we have to stand up, to engage in the debate and to draw borders. Finally, Mr President. As I said, it requires something from ourselves and it also demands in our work that we take the message of the Van der Staaij committee to heart, because together we are more than the sum of the parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u192	Thank you. I call Mrs Simons on behalf of BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Bureau, the President of the Chamber and the Vice-Presidents have an important role to play in facilitating the security of all participants in a debate;]] [[Whereas there are currently no official complaint procedures in the event of harassment or the creation of unsafe situations by fellow chamber members, and there are no evaluation options available for the Presidency;]] [[calls on the Presidium to draw up proposals to evaluate Chamber and Vice-Presidentship as well as to organise a complaint procedure for MPs who feel intimidated or unsafe by the conduct or lack thereof of a chairman or colleague of the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u194	A very nice one, if I say so myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the discourse in Parliament is signed by statements which, intended or unintentionally, exclude and discriminate, or result in exclusion and discrimination, both in the Lower House and in society;]] [[Whereas, despite good intentions, such statements are often not recognised or recognised as racism, discrimination, sexism or validism and that the lack of recognition leads to further standardisation of stigmatisation, discrimination and exclusion;]] [[calls on the Presidium to examine how privilege training for MPs, who address the recognition of exclusion mechanisms, rhetoric and origins and their own positionality in a growing diverse society such as the Netherlands, can contribute to the shaping of a parliamentary debate in which freedom of expression prevails and is guaranteed, and takes place within the limits of the first article of the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u195	I'm just witnessing a little order debate. You're multifunctional, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the President for chairing this complex debate. I think the President has done an excellent job. I would like to thank the President-in-Office once again for the letter she sent. I would like to express my support for the line she has chosen. If you hear the debate here today, I think it will be wide in the Chamber. Many motions have been tabled today concerning the work of the Van der Staaij Committee. In many of these proposals I share Mrs Leijten's feeling that they sound sympathetic, but in some of those proposals I am going to use the weekend to deal with whether the sympathetic intentions are always equally practicable or desirable in their consequences. Mrs Leijten specifically interrupted one motion, but I think that is true of many more motions. With regard to the commitment to check the deadline of the investigation at NCTV, I await the answer. That is why I am not now tabling a motion on this point. This is a subject that I may want to come back to at a later date. I'll wait for the answer first. I would like to reflect very briefly on one final point that I did not get to in the first term. An exit call is sometimes the most important conversation in a company. When we look back at the letters of outgoing MPs in the last ten years, almost every departureer has included a passage in which the brutality of the manners and the desire for us to choose a different course in this regard. Perhaps this debate can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you. I call the Bishop on behalf of the SGP. He looks terrified, but not everyone has checked in for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to two motions after thanking you as chairman, the formal chairman of the Chamber and the chairman of the committee for the answers to the questions. We have actually talked a bit about culture here today. It's hard to control them by structural measures. Anyway, you have to do one thing and not leave the other. Then there's the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas inflation of the instrument motion should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Bureau to inform the House of the number of motions for resolutions per Member in advance of the debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas swearing and vulgar language do not belong in the Lower House;]] [[calls on the Bureau to ensure that curses and vulgar language are not included in the Acts of the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u198	Those were the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u199	To the second accurate, Mr. Bishop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u200	It's beautiful, isn't
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u201	Oh, yeah. Mrs Ploumen, you have the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u202	Mr President, thank you, thank you to the President of the Chamber, to Mr Van der Staaij and to his committee and to all those who have made this debate possible today. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas confidence in politics has fallen sharply and democracy needs to be strengthened;]] [[Whereas people from regions with a great distance from The Hague in particular feel poorly heard and represented;]] [[calls on the Presidium to draw up proposals for periodic meetings at locations spread over the country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u203	I would add that, as far as we are concerned, committee meetings can certainly be considered for this. We are giving the Bureau the free hand to make proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u204	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u205	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the real President, and one of the most old-timers, for answering the questions. I think there's still a few things left open. Apart from that, I hope that we will not do such a debate often and we will not often talk about whether or not we can insult each other in this Chamber. In fact, where there are limits, it seems quite obvious to me. I have two motions. The first motion is about splitters. I'll bring out how the distribution goes now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that split-off workers should not be rewarded for split-off, but should not do their job as a second-class MP;]] [[calls on the Bureau to come forward with a proposal on speaking time, support and permanent membership of committees which enable them to implement their legislative and supervisory legislation properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Van Dam Committee concluded that the fundamental principles of the rule of law had been violated in the childcare allowance scandal and that this also affected the legislator;]] [[calls on the Bureau to ask for an opinion from MPs and external representatives on the capacity of the Chamber to properly carry out its core tasks in the areas of legislation, government control and control of European plans and legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Ephraim, Mr Segers, Mr Simons and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-13]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Ephraim, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Ploumen, Mr Simons and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35992-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for guiding this debate. Thank you, too, to my fellow Members. We liked the debate. It is good that we have had this debate together. Thank you also for the support for the note I wrote as President and for the support that is clear from the report of the Van der Staaij working group. Know that I will be careful to ensure that every sound in the room gets room. We represent the whole of the Netherlands and therefore all the visions. I've said it a few times. The free word is invaluable and gets even more space if we don't play on the person anymore, but on the ball. When it comes to matters that affect our democracy and the rule of law, we must not leave it unspoken. In my view, these are the most important conclusions. It's a nice kickoff. I would once again like to thank my fellow Members for their support. We don't appreciate it, because we found out that we think differently about at least one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u207	That is sometimes the case even within political groups, I can tell you. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u208	But we both believe that legislation needs to be strengthened. Thank you for your input from the Chamber. We said in our report: let's get to work. Actually, I kind of like to close up with that. Now that the working party has produced its report, it is up to the Chamber itself. There's all that's going on. I hope that the same enthusiasm that we have seen today and before in the coming period will strengthen the legislative, controlling and grass-roots role of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u209	I failed the official President of the Chamber by not mentioning her in my second term. That was a bit of time. I think I should. She has prepared this debate very well with her letter and everything, and given all the space. I note that this President himself is very open to self-reflection and criticism. I would like to express my appreciation for that. I've never had the experience of her being biased towards me or anyone. That is what I wanted to say in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you. I would like to close the debate with the words of Mr Van der Staaij that he found the process and making recommendations encouraging. That is also in line with what Mrs van der Plas said. Thank you all for taking part in this debate. Thank you for the debate among yourselves. Thank you to the President-in-Office for her letter and her reply. In particular, thank you to Mr Van der Staaij and to his entire committee for the great work that has been done. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:20, because people need to be able to dine. Otherwise, it's gonna get so freaked out. The debate will then be resumed by means of the Own-initiative Act.
