ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The next item is the amendment of the Financing Act for political parties in connection with the evaluation of this law, the Evaluation Act Wfpp. It concerns the continuation of the procedure, because last week we had the first term of office. We are going to listen to the Minister's answer in the first term, but I see Mrs Leijten standing; I suspect for a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think we had a good first term last week. The Minister had promised to send us some technical improvements on the scope of amendments. I don't think I did, because I didn't get it. It is a proper legislative proposal, in which the consultation is still ongoing as to whether the funding for the local political parties is well organised. What exactly do we do with the maximum? That is why I can imagine that we are listening carefully to the Minister tonight. If it can therefore appreciate and interpret the amendments, that would be very nice. But then let's do the rounding, so the second term, after the recess. We would only vote then, so we would not have much delay, if we could vote on Thursday, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u3	I understand that you are saying this already in order to give it consideration to colleagues, but that it depends on the answer given by the Minister in the first term and on the course of the debate. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u4	My proposal is that we should listen carefully to the Minister and ask the Minister to respond to the amendments in the first period, but also to decide as a Chamber that we should do the second period after recess and then vote on them on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u5	So you want to present that decision to colleagues already. I'm gonna see if there's a majority for that. The PVV agrees. The Labour Party agrees. The Animal Party agrees. The VVD agrees and so does the SGP. I see everyone nodding now, so that's what we're gonna do. The Minister also wants to respond to the point of order, so I allow the Minister to respond to this point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten did indeed refer to Mr Omtzigt's comment last time. We have passed all the technical points through the Bureau of Legislation. We discussed in good consultation to do so, in order to give everyone individual feedback. That is how I understood the request at the time. This has led to a number of amended amendments, in which we see the comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u8	Then I give the floor to the Minister to answer all the questions put, to respond to the amendments and so on. I would ask the Minister to share some sort of table of contents with us so that we know a little what we can expect in this debate. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I'll give you the table of contents first. I will start with a general introduction, taking a bit of history with me, because a Member of Parliament went back to the 1950s. So I thought, at least I can try to go back to the nineteenth century. But not too long, I say to Mrs. Arib. Then I will say something about the background to the legislative amendment and then I have seven blocks. The first block is the purpose of the evaluation law and the relationship with the Law on the political parties. The second block is the maximation, including a ban on gifts by legal persons and whether or not the possibility of circumvention. The third block is transparency, including the questions about lowering the threshold of disclosure. The fourth block is funding from abroad. Five is the funding of national parties and six is the financing of decentralised parties. The seventh block concerns the other subjects. In my reply, I also take the amendments that have been tabled as far as possible. I do use the old numbering. A number of amendments have just been tabled. I have not yet incorporated the new numbering in my text. But if that's necessary, of course we can look it up. And I also have the questions. So I tried to compress it as much as possible, so we can treat it as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u10	We will also try to help with the renumbering as far as possible. And I also have a domestic announcement. We're also going to suspend for dinner break between 6:30 and 7:00. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u11	Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, my memory is generally good and I've been standing here more often, but I wonder where the button is again to get this speaker chair just a bit lower. Look. Thank you. Great. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members for the questions they have asked and the suggestions they have made about this review law of the Financing Act political parties. A wide-ranging exchange of views has already been held on the elements of the proposal and on which parts of the proposal should be adapted. When naming the cubes, I have already mentioned the maximation of gifts, and the transparency. It's all come over. This is how I respond to the various questions and proposals. Before doing so, I would like to look back briefly at the special position of political parties in our democracy, and how the background of this bill and the proposed law on political parties relate to this. Political parties, of course, have their basis in society and they also derive their political significance from the ideas, visions and ideology that are underneath them. Let me go back in history, just like Mr Bishop did. Political parties have been playing a role in democracy since the nineteenth century, although that was still a bit flawed at the time. After all, there was no women's right to vote and no universal right to vote for men. They only came in the early 20th century, in 1917 and 1919. During this period political parties also slowly grew into the political representatives of the social pillars that we had at the time in different areas. During that period, you actually didn't see any interference from the government with these political parties. They didn't have legal status, they didn't get government subsidies, and there were no rules on funding the political parties. Only around 1970, so much later, will there be the first subsidy schemes, not even for the political parties themselves, but for the organisations, the secondary institutions. So it has actually taken a very long time for any regulation to come. After the 1970 regulations, the next came only in 1999. That's when the law on subsidising political parties came into force. For the first time there was a subsidy for political parties themselves. So that was actually not so long ago, only 23 years ago. And then there was also the obligation to disclose gifts from legal persons above the threshold of 10 000 guilders. In 2013, the Finance Act was subsequently adopted by political parties. So you can see that most of the developments concerning the funding of political parties have actually taken place over the past 15 years. This also applies to extending the rules on transparency, and to the openness of the contributions a political party receives. You can also see this in the subsidy criteria that we now have in the Financing Act political parties. They are deliberately very spacious. In this sense, you can see that the starting point is still to release to some extent the organisation and implementation of political parties. This legislative proposal really aims to further increase that transparency and also to increase that awareness. Some Members also said here that the goal is also to ultimately make the electorate aware of the type of funding that is available. I also think that independence of political parties in our democracy is important, because political parties have three key tasks. They recruit and select candidates for public representative positions and other functions in the public administration. They set out the wishes and interests of society in the political debate. But they also have a task in communicating to the electorate and mobilizing voters. Why do I start with this? Because I will always come back to a number of aspects in the assessment and in my advice on the amendments, for example the question of how more state intervention relates to that independent position of political parties, to that autonomy and to those internal matters. At the same time, it is, of course, also very important to take a step forward in certain cases, as we do in this evaluation law, even when it comes to the awareness, openness and transparency of that political party. There are also a number of proposals made by this Chamber, and I will also say that I believe that I should also like to leave the judgement to the Chamber as to how it goes about it. I come to the first block: the Evaluation Act Law Financing political parties and also the Law on the political parties. The Financing Political Parties Act was reviewed by the Committee-Veling in 2017-2018. During the same period, Mr Remkes's State Commission also issued an opinion on making a law on political parties. A large part of the recommendations of the Veling Committee have been incorporated into this evaluation law. This involves strengthening the financial position of political parties, increasing transparency and reducing the risk of foreign influence. Mr Elian, if I pronounce it so well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u12	Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u13	Mr Ellian has asked how I look at this bill. I think it is a good legislative proposal, because it represents a first step in a number of very firm and excellent recommendations from the Veling Committee. At the same time, I have also emphasised in my main letter that this is not the end point and that this law on political parties is going to come about. Mrs Arib, Mr Bishop and Mrs Van der Plas also asked about the relationship between this evaluation law and the Law on Political Parties. This is a first important step in the implementation of the Law on Political Parties. We are dealing with a number of things that we need to do anyway, but I would like to deal with this law on political parties in the coming period, because we also need it to strengthen the independent position of the political parties by clarifying a number of things. My planning, because that's what was asked for "where is it?', The specific question that several Members had is that I want to consult the law in the second half of the year. What's about the alignment I have? Rules on the transparency of the internal organisation of political parties, including on digital political campaigns and microtargeting, the establishment of a separate independent supervisor, and also look at various aspects when it comes to banning political parties. Article 2:20 Civil Code must also have a further specification in this law. I shall come back to the position of the decentralised political parties in response to the questions raised by several Members. Then I'll get to block two. That's about maximation, prohibition and avoidance. Several Members of this Chamber have made the proposal to really see if we can work on the maximisation of donations to political parties. The Veling Committee was more than happy to point out that there was insufficient reason to maximize the donations of political parties, but at that time he did make a move. If the number of substantial donations from political parties were to increase, the introduction of a ceiling could be considered. You also see, and of course I have seen this as a minister, that some committee members have started to think differently about this too. I would first like to point out a number of arguments for and against maximation and give attention to them, before I also give a direction myself. An important argument in favour of maximisation is to prevent a political party becoming too dependent on one or a few large donors. That calls for the introduction of a maximum. A second point concerns the possibility of avoiding a ceiling. A number of Members of Parliament rightly drew attention to this last week. In order to minimise the risk of circumvention, it is advisable, as far as I am concerned, to exclude as few donors as possible from that ceiling, because you really have to ensure that all lines are clear and that we do not have to think of special U-turn constructions to do, maxim or not, do or do not do a gift. I say this because, if the Chamber decides to adopt this bill, you will have to make it clear from now on who the natural persons behind these legal entities are. So that argument is dealt with. A third point of attention is the height of the threshold of the ceiling. In this context, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz asked about the consequences of the amendment on item No. 35 of the SP, which sets the maximum at 100,000. Looking at the donations received by political parties in 2020, the number of donations above 100 000 is very limited and the impact of this threshold on the funding of most political parties would be relatively limited. At the same time, in 2021, the Chamber also mentioned a number of donations that were far above that. When it comes to maximisation, it is therefore a weighting whether you want to take a very big step or whether you want to follow the proposal of the SP, which is based on a ton, where you can also decide with each other as a Chamber to see what influence that has on the practice of political parties, to follow and evaluate whether or not that violates an autonomous position and whether or not that entails the risk of statification. So I don't have an armored view of the amount. I can see that this is a significant change in the interpretation of the law, because it has always been about transparency. So I can imagine that the Chamber takes into consideration that this is a different interpretation of the law than we have used so far. You can go in different directions in the maximation of the amount, but then these are my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u14	Thank you to the Minister for explaining the various amendments. She mentioned one, but I would actually like to put the difference between Mr Ellian's amendment and ours to the Minister. Where are the big differences? Is that making those exceptions, which the Minister says: the more exceptions you have, the more a U-turn can be made? And is that the only difference? Or are there any other differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u15	In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. I would like to say to Mr Ellian that I have indicated to everyone that I would prefer not to distinguish between the maximation of natural persons and legal persons at the time of introduction. This has to do with the fact that a partial ceiling, which excludes certain parties, can easily be avoided by going through natural persons. By keeping the legal entities on their feet, who also have the duty with this bill to make the natural persons behind it public, you keep insightful where the money comes from. And there has always been a different feeling... or "other feeling"; you can look at companies that are sponsoring, giving gifts, or natural persons. This way you keep a clear overview. You can decide with each other whether or not that works out well in the long term. That would be my preference, because a law is not a static whole. From the strength and stability of the law, in which this distinction has always been made and in which this is quite a big step, I would nevertheless choose to do so at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you for pointing out that difference. Now the amendment tabled by the SP has been given a different number, which I do not even remember...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u17	39.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u18	Item No. 39. That is because Mrs Arib and Mrs Bromet have co-signed it. Mr Omtzigt was already under it; I must remain complete. That does say that there is an exception to the ceiling for secondary institutions. Does the Minister see any risk in this or does she say that it is a logical consequence of what these secondary institutions are now for political parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u19	I can simply follow the argumentability of this amendment from the SP. I therefore have no explicit opinion on this, except that it seems highly advisable to evaluate it again on its effects. That is what we are doing with this legislation. I believe that the Chamber has been very clear in that regard. They want to prevent undue influence. Then the maximation is a first step, just like this one. It's really a different way of setting up this law. I think we should look at it from that resistance, too. Then this is just a good first step to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u20	Please continue. Oh, there's another interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u21	I would particularly like to clarify Mrs Leijten's question on the amendment of the VVD. I am, of course, replacing my colleague Laura Bromet here. It has the advantage that sometimes you dig fresh into a subject. I would like to ask the Minister: does this also discourage the amendment of the VVD or does it take a different view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u22	It is very good that Mrs Westerveld makes that clear. That is what I should have said to Mrs Leijten at the end of my reply. I therefore advise against Mr Ellian's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u23	That is the amendment to item No. 24, according to our records. It's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, it is indeed the amendment to item No. 24. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u25	And the amendment to item No. 39 from Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u26	That was the amendment in part No. 35 and now the amendment to item No. Thirty-nine years old. That's what I'm judging, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u27	The amendment in part No. 39 gets judgment, Room. There is an interruption by Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u28	The Minister just said that she wants to exclude as few categories as possible. I've asked before, in my first term, what about inheritances and bequests. I am very curious about this, as this is a very special category. There is no sign of a return service. The appearance of conflict of interest, of a return service, is one of the reasons why you should go to maximum. In the case of inheritances and legacies, that's not true. I have already tabled an amendment on this subject, a sub-amendment. I don't think that's in the Minister's office yet. However, I would like to ask whether she would like to answer the question which I asked in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u29	I will come back to this later in my speech, but I will answer Mrs Teunissen's question now. We're just different from perspective. It is very often clear in life that people are given an inheritance or bequest. That can also be a possible influence, the moment you expect to get a legacy or bequest from a certain angle. So I wouldn't want to exclude it, but I would like it to be part of the law. I am looking at this from a different perspective than Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u30	That is, of course, also a very legitimate perspective. I would like to point out, however, that this is primarily an individual wish and not so much a commercial interest. In many cases, inheritances and bequests are an individual desire to leave something to something that one considers important, regardless of commercial interests or influence in that way. I would like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u31	To this end, of course, political parties are currently being made transparent under the Financing Act for the donations of natural persons who are still alive. They often do so from a commitment to a political party or ideology. It is a party that they recognise, which they want to contribute to the political debate. That is not commercially motivated, but from an intrinsic belief. People not only have a commercial argument to give to life. They do so because they are convinced by the positions that a political party has and because they think it does the right thing. Of course, Mrs Teunissen recognizes that very much from her party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u32	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u33	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 19 by Mrs Bromet. I want to give that judgment Chamber. It's a consideration of the Chamber. At the same time, I think Mrs Leijten's approach to doing it in this way is in line with the different ways in which you can weigh this. I'd like to leave it to the Chamber to see what's a good follow-up. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bromet and Mrs Leijten have tabled the amendment to item No. 33 submitted. That is the amendment to item No. Forty-five.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u34	Excuse me, just on the previous point. The amendment in part No. 19 is the amendment to item No. Forty-six. But I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u35	I was talking about banning gifts from legal persons. We just talked about that. I advise against these amendments, because I believe that we should keep it that way with natural and legal persons. Mr Van Baarle has also asked questions about this. Mr Bishop asked why is it necessary to look so critically at private donors? That's a question for me as a minister. I have tried to explain why it is important to keep both aspects open. I have also provided a section on the history of the development of the financing of political parties. We have to keep the balance. On the one hand, we want to guarantee the autonomy of political parties and, on the other hand, we want to give the electorate an insight into the revenue of a political party and what that does or does not do with the influence of a political party. That makes me consider supporting these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the anonymous donations. Mr Van Baarle asked how I looked at the possibility of anonymous donations and a ban on them. Mrs Leijten has the amendment to item No. 18, that document No. Forty-four has turned out to be. Mr President, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u36	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u37	Things are getting better here! The amendment is about lowering the threshold for anonymous donations to €125. The law now sets the limit for anonymous donations at €1,000. Each amount above is transferred to the supervisor. I think that is quite a good one, because it also saves you the €1,000. In any case, my opinion is that at €1,000 there is a good balance between the importance of transparency, the importance of the privacy of donors and donation organisations and reducing the administrative burden on political parties themselves. That's balancing between what you're asking to write down and make an insight into a website, and what threshold you're choosing. For amounts less than €1,000, the risk of undue influence is also much smaller. That is why, however sympathetic Mrs Leijten's proposal is... we do not disagree on the importance of maximizing anonymous donations, but I would like to leave it at €1,000. I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u38	The amendment in part No. 44 has been dissuaded. There is an interruption by Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u39	Clearly, the Minister is dissuading this amendment, partly because of the administrative burden. I myself reflected on those anonymous donations, also in connection with the first term last week. My question to the Minister is this: what cases are we talking about? When I think of an anonymous gift, I honestly can't get much further than the envelope left at a party agency. After all, digital transfers are almost impossible to do anonymously, unless you are very useful. That's why I was wondering how you value the administrative burden. I do not think it is such an anonymous gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u40	As I pointed out, on the one hand it's about the administrative burden and on the other hand it's about the privacy of the person who gives it, about whether you choose it or not. Sometimes it can also be a threshold for people to give to certain political parties. The political party collects the amount. On the other hand, she's gonna have to hand it over to the supervisor and publish it. So these are a number of extra actions that you have to do. It's also in his mind that you want to guarantee the privacy of the person who gives it. So there are two different arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u41	I have to admit that in this case I do not really follow those two elements of the Minister. One argument is privacy, but it is guaranteed. Only the party sees it, unless it is an envelope without a name. That's only really anonymous in my book, but let's assume the party saw who it is. I don't think that's really anonymous anyway. It stays with the party and then she still doesn't have to make it public. That is what another amendment of mine is about; we will come to that in a moment. I would like to ask the question: what are we talking about here? If you receive a sum of money digitally, just through the bank account, I don't think it's possible for you to be shielded from who it's coming from. Then the party will see that, won't it? Even as a liberal, I say: is it not an administrative burden to write down the name you see?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u42	Mr Ellian now narrows it down to one argument, but there are three underlying arguments why we have always set the ceiling at €1,000 so far. That is the administrative burden on the one hand. Yes, the party sees what comes in and must of course publish it or not. Another argument is to protect the privacy of the giver. That has so far always been a guiding argument in the legislative proposal. The last argument not to disclose an amount below €1,000 is that the degree of improper influence is less than if you are talking for example about €200,000. It is up to the Chamber to consider how it deals with it, but this has always been the starting point of this law. I can at least follow it as a minister, and my advice would be to keep at least €1,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u43	I think we're confusing two things here. On the one hand, there is the publication threshold. The Minister gives valid arguments to say: don't sit there on €125 but keep that a little higher. I can follow that reasoning. But this amendment does not refer to the publication threshold, but to the adoption of anonymous donations. I really do not see why, as a political party, you would want or should accept an anonymous gift of more than €125. My VVD colleague said very real things about the administrative burden: why? We have had a trial here once which showed that political parties did indeed find ways of getting anonymous letters on the bus. Then you can get an anonymous gift of €900 four times, because you don't know if it comes from the same person. With this reasoning in mind, I really do not understand why an anonymous gift of €800 for a national political party but also for a local political party should be possible under the law. Could the Minister explain why a small political party in a municipality with 30,000 inhabitants, who gets €900 anonymously, should accept that money as a gift?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u44	Let's get back to the origins of this law. This threshold was introduced into the law years ago. A number of considerations have been taken into account. That has to do with the administrative burden, with the protection of the privacy of the person giving the gift, and that is the third argument that I have just put forward with the degree of influence. That has been a choice and I can still follow that choice as a minister. Mr Omtzigt says: I do not follow him. It is up to Mr Omtzig to weigh up how he deals with the amendments. In any case, I can still follow the reasoning on that point as a co-legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u45	These are arguments for the publication threshold. For the publication threshold you want a certain privacy protection. You can say: "Can I just give you an amount without me getting on a list? Can I just transfer €50 to the party because I like it? But I'm not interfering there. Come on, we don't want to have a book of all the members of a political party that are published." There are very good reasons for that. This is the subject of the privacy argument. The administrative burden argument also applies to this: then we need to make entire books public. But this amendment is not about the publication threshold. It's about the anonymous gifts. Anonymous gifts aren't allowed to guarantee privacy, are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u46	That is the starting point that we have always used here. I see that Mr Omtzigt says: I see that happening elsewhere. But it is the starting point that we have used so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u47	Finishing at this point. No, enough? Then Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u48	Where you set the line, of course, is a choice. But this reduction in that limit has nothing to do with publishing who cares. It's just that as a political party, you have a much lower limit where you say to someone: "Thank you for giving me something, but I have to note that it's coming from you." So it's something other than a free contribution pot on an evening like the SP that does know when we're doing actions. People put a tenner in there sometimes. But when people say they want to do €100 twice, we say: fine Mr. Van Nispen, or Mrs. Bruins Slot, that you want to give it, but we have to write it down. That's the point. So it's not about publishing. I think it's okay if that's clear. The Minister is not in favour; she has made that clear. But it doesn't have anything to do with that border.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u49	It is true what Mrs Leijten says: it is not about publishing. But they are the same kind of arguments that I use in that context. That's the line of reasoning I follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u50	To what extent does the government, the minister, have sharp or that this moment is happening? How does the Minister assess the possibility that, if you keep that limit at €1,000, that in the future is a way for people to avoid transparency, openness? So if you stay below the limit of anonymous donations, and if you keep that limit high, below $1,000, you can donate that $1,000 several times. Then it doesn't have to be public, because it's anonymous. Does the Minister see that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u51	When it comes to such a threshold that you use and the risk attached to it, you see that you... how can I put it? It's not just the administrative burden and privacy. These are also different amounts that you put together. The Veling Committee has, of course, looked at the composition and has not indicated that there is a real need to take steps in this respect. This bill is based on the opinions of the Veling Committee. I do not therefore have any direct reason to say to Mr Van Baarle that this is not the case here. I do say that, if the Chamber chooses to introduce this maxim, we must, of course, look at various aspects in the assessment of the law. I agree with Mr Van Baarle on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u52	With all due respect, I find it a little too easy to say when dealing with this law that the Veling Committee did not say anything about it and that it would therefore count a little less. I think we can recite points out there, too. Can the Minister at least indicate whether she estimates that, if you set the threshold of transparency at a certain amount, people are going to avoid doing so by giving it anonymously in bits? I think that's true. Shouldn't you just avoid appearances at that point by lowering that limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u53	Two aspects. It is, of course, up to Mr Van Baarle to make additional proposals in addition to the proposals that I put to the Chamber as a minister. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's We have really based this evaluation law on the opinions of the Veling Committee. That is why I go back to that, because we have looked at what is working well and what is not and what we need to strengthen. He did not have any additional advice in this area. So we didn't do that. On the other hand, you have to give 25 times below €1,000 to get a significant amount of €25,000. Yes, it is possible, but at the moment I do not see the risk acting directly, also on the basis of the fact that the Veling Committee has not made any comment on this. But it's not impossible. I'd like to be open about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u54	On top of that, we are likely to lower that transparency threshold, as there are a number of amendments to that effect. It is now at €4,500 and probably goes to €2,500 or €1,000. Because it becomes more transparent, the risk is, of course, greater that people will use the route of anonymous donations in order not to give transparency. In that interplay, I'd say the Minister says there's a collusion. I do see an increased risk of avoidance. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u55	I find it difficult to point that out right now. As a Chamber, if that decision to amend a number of things were to be taken, I would rather opt for a firm evaluation on these kinds of points, than for an immediate additional step in relation to what we have now. That's my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u56	My interruption is about another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u57	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u58	This is about the amendment to item No. In my view, this is the new issue of my colleague Mrs Bromet, in which we ask that only natural persons should be allowed to make donations to political parties. Of course, the basis of our democracy lies in the fact that only natural persons can vote and have influence. For example, we would find it very crazy if we also gave companies a voice. At the same time, we allow companies to sponsor political parties. That seems to me, and our party thinks, undesirable from that point of view, but also, of course, from the point of view of transparency. At the same time, the Minister is dissuading this amendment, and I would like to ask her if she could give a more fundamental answer to the arguments about the foundations of democracy, and why it would be good if only natural persons were to make donations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u59	The basis of this legislation has so far, over the past 21 years, always been that you can receive gifts from natural and legal persons. With this evaluation law, we are also going to impose on legal persons the additional requirement that they make the natural persons behind it known. So if you have a foundation called Mickey Mouse, you give it to the natural person behind the foundation. This still makes you very insightful that one person, for example Mrs Westerveld from Nijmegen, really gives from herself, and that the other person, a company, really gives more from a business perspective. That does matter, because you think as a voter: hey, why is the Pietje Puk or Mickey Mouse foundation subsidising this party? That distinction is removed when you allow it only through natural persons, because then any company that wants to sponsor or give a gift will do so through a natural person, while there may be someone behind it with a particular plan, which you wonder if does not have a degree of influence. I would therefore also like to say, with regard to the construction and the constancy of this law, that please keep that up, especially if the Chamber chooses to impose a maximation, first of all to see how this maximation works. I therefore believe that it is better to maintain this structure, also from the point of view of the resilience and the awareness of the legislation. So you also distinguish between a person who gives and a company that gives. There are other interests behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u60	Yes. Is it not also our job here to prevent interests from playing a role, for example in giving gifts to parties? I understand the practical points, but at the same time, of course, it is a very special figure that companies, which do not have the right to vote and which we do not give a place in our democracy, can, of course, sponsor parties in this way. I would like to ask the Minister about that aspect. I am not therefore concerned with the practical issue. I am concerned about whether it is not a crazy figure from a democratic point of view that we are giving parties such as companies a role in this. Are we not dealing with some kind of influence that you wouldn't want and which we may have allowed for far too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u61	The basis of this law has always been to make it clear to the electorate who the people who give these political parties are. Those could be individuals. It could be Mrs Jansen from Apeldoorn who really has a very warm heart for animal welfare and who then thinks: the best party where I can do that is the Party for Animals. But it could also be a feed store that says, "I'm gonna do it." And that's different. That animal feed store may have a commercial interest in it, but that does not have to be a fact of influence, because it may also have a warm heart for animals and it wants to spread that message further. This way you give the voter more insight. Otherwise it was Mrs Jansen from Apeldoorn and Mr De Vries from another place. We've always had that distinction. So I'd like to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u62	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u63	I think the Minister is explaining the distinction well and perhaps we will not get out of it tonight, but it is, of course, an aspect to think further about. I am referring to the question of whether, in a democracy such as ours, in which people have the right to vote and vote on political parties and in which natural persons can become members of political parties, for example, to talk about the electoral programme, then, by other means, companies or organisations that may have an interest, cannot influence a political party so directly in this way, but can give money, which, of course, always has a particular interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u64	That really is a fundamental change in the starting point of the legislation at the moment. My preference is to do it first as we do it now, where the judgement is for the Chamber to apply that maximation. My advice as a minister is to include that distinction as a co-legislator because you will then give that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u65	Let me turn to the Minister's last comment on anonymous donations. She said, "There is no recommendation from the Velvet Committee." That's right. The Veling Committee was in 2017. In 2019 we see in the Volkskrant an attempt to transfer anonymous donations of €15,000. There are quite a few parties who have thought creatively to accept that anonymous gift of €15,000. One party here, of which someone is now separated, has even fired a person at the party bureau for that, which was 50PLUS at the time, I must say. Let me put it this way: everyone thought very creatively about how to cut up anonymous gifts so that they were accepted. That is what happened after the Veling Committee. The second is that this bill comes from GRECO. In the 2008 report that committee said: boys, you can just give €4,500 anonymously to a political party here; do you want to? Then the Dutch Government said: we have a bill that we want to make up to €150. This is not very far from the €125 proposed by the SP. Would the government like to reflect on those two points? So first of all, they said in Europe that we're going to go to €150, and now suddenly it's going to be $1,000, and second of all... we've had a mystery guest. Let me put it this way: the political system did not quite succeed in the mystery guest. Wouldn't that be a reason to further restrict anonymous donations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u66	First of all, the intention behind this legislation, behind the law as it works, is that you accept an anonymous donation of €1,000 and not that as a political party you will come up with all kinds of constructions to promote that; I agree with Mr Omtzigt. Everyone should know the law and the intention, the spirit, of the law. That cannot be the intention. At the same time, I must say that there is indeed a recommendation from GRECO; that is correct. That's what I saw in the recommendations that were there. As a result, it went back to €1,000. I have no reason to believe that what happened or what we're doing right now... I have no reason to put it really lower. It is up to the Chamber to judge that, but my approach at the moment is to discourage it and to do so by default. I will say to the Chamber, in response to what Mr Ellian said: if you opt for a lower transparency threshold, then I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u67	I don't quite understand that. I don't mean to, but there aren't many things you can mess with as easily as with an anonymous gift. "Yes, I've received ten anonymous gifts, but I don't have to tell you whose ten are." Then you're already gone as a supervisor. If they're in the books and the supervisor asks if they belong to the same person, you can say they're anonymous. Gone control. I've seen for the past 15 years that the weaknesses in this law have been constantly used, through the creation of donation foundations and other things. If you leave those weaknesses in the law, I'm almost willing to make a bet that someone's gonna use it. Most parties will not use them. That's right, too. Something has really changed in the mindset here. Really. But you're proposing one of those laws to make sure those weaknesses go out. As a social assistance beneficiary in this country, you may not receive €10 anonymously; if you do not report this, you will be cut off completely on your benefit. Why would it be desirable for a political party to receive €999 anonymously, as well as 10 of the same donor? No one's ever gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u68	First of all, it is of course bad when people try to avoid the law, because it is really meant to be. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it is very good that the political parties are prepared to abide by this law. That is important, because if they do not, there are also reasons to change the law. But if you set a lower transparency threshold, so if you do not assume €4,500 but go back to a lower amount, then my proposal would be to set a lower anonymous gift amount as a Chamber. With €4,500 and €1,000, I could do just fine. I find the limit of €125, from the privacy of the person, the relationship to the administrative burden and the structure of the law, so the arguments I mentioned earlier, are rather low.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u69	We're not gonna agree. You can see it in all kinds of ways, but I really don't see why you should protect the privacy of someone who gives €900 to a political party.... the privacy that is lost at that time only in relation to the treasurer of the party, because it is not public... should be protected and it should be possible to put it in an envelope. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u70	Maybe I didn't put it right. Well, that's up to me. I indicated that if the Chamber chose to lower the threshold for disclosure, I would find it logical to reduce the anonymous donations as well. I see Mr Omtzigt, so I thought I might not have said it clearly enough. But that makes sense to me, because I can follow Mr Ellian's line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u71	I saw Mr Van Baarle standing there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u72	But I would just like to suggest to the Chamber that we look at the amount of the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u73	But then I'm starting to get a little dizzy. In fact, the Minister says that she does object that if someone gives €125 or more, it will be public for, say, the treasurer of a political party and perhaps a few more people, such as the Kachecking Committee and the accountant. But the moment you have to report it, you can go downstairs. Is it a matter of principle? I don't get this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u74	That's because I'm still somewhere at the beginning of my answer. The point of lowering the disclosure threshold still needs to be made, so there will also be more consistency in the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u75	We'll wait and see. Where are we in the table of contents right now? Is it true that we are still at the second block, at the maximation and the ban on gifts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u76	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I know you looked at me pretty hard to get the answer right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u77	I didn't even mean to. I just intend to suspend before 7:00 p.m. for dinner. So I hope we can finish this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u78	Let me now turn to block three, on the transparency of donations. We've already talked about different ways of avoiding each other. Perhaps it would be good to discuss this briefly. We've had the point of avoiding the law. Then I come to the transparency of the donations. That is in line with this point. I think I'm working on that for about ten minutes, so I'll leave it to the chairman to do exactly what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u79	I suggest we suspend for dinner. Then we can suspend until 7:30. 'Cause I'm afraid there's gonna be a lot of interruptions again. Then we do the employees here short, and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u80	Let's get back to the meeting. The next item is the Review Act on the Financing of Political Parties. The Minister is in the process of replying in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister so that she can pursue the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am on block three: the transparency of gifts. Mr Van Baarle has the amendment to item No. 13 and Mr Ellian has tabled the amendment to item No. 23 submitted in order to lower the threshold for disclosure. This concerns reductions from €4,500 to €2,500 and €1,000 per donor per year respectively. Mr Van Baarle then asked why the cabinet did not accept the opinion of the Veling Committee to lower the threshold for disclosure to €2,500 per donor. First of all, I will answer Mr Van Baarle's second question. At a threshold of €4,500 for disclosure, we still had the idea that it would strike a good balance between transparency on the one hand and the privacy of citizens and donation organisations on the other. Administrative duties should be proportionate to the purpose of the Political Parties Act. I still think that balance is fine, but at the same time I also recognise that the amount is, of course, arbitrary to some extent. There is no real deeper consideration behind why it is €4,500 or why it is €2,500. In this context, I would simply like to join with the Veling Committee, which proposed that €2,500 be used as a threshold for disclosure. I would therefore like to give that amendment a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u82	So the amendment in part No. 13 gets judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u83	Yeah, that's right. The other amendment concerns a threshold of €1,000. This makes the importance of transparency even more important than the importance of administrative burdens and privacy. It is up to the Chamber to find that balance in the legislative proposal. So also the amendment aimed at making it €1,000, I judge Chamber. Only the balance sheet will change in relation to the opinion of the Veling Committee, which proposed €2,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u84	The amendment in part No. 23 also gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u85	In this context, Mrs Van Dijk asked whether a lower threshold would lead to a smaller willingness to donate. I didn't investigate that. It is conceivable that this is the case, because many people who donate to a political party do not necessarily have to let others know that they have done so. They'll think about it. Only, as I have already said, I can actually follow the opinion of the Veling committee, because it is arbitrary in some sense. I therefore give the two amendments a ruling, Chamber. Mr Van Baarle and Mrs Bromet asked how gifts are controlled in kind. That is what our supervisor is doing, who also looks at whether this has been properly included in the annual reports. You can see that a number of parties are actually working on that now. I do think that we should put a little more emphasis on the fact that all parties involved in gifts in kind do so. We are going to strengthen communication in this area, so that people are well aware of what a gift is in kind and that it is always recorded. I have already answered Mrs Teunissen's question about the legacies and heirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u86	There is an interruption by Mr Van Baarle, perhaps even on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u87	Yeah, about the contribution in kind. Several professors have pointed out in the past that this point does not return to reporting. Can the Minister promise to improve communication, but also enforcement? In the next round of evaluations or reports on the Wfpp, can it be returned whether this works and whether we see improvement on that? I think it's good to keep a finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u88	The Supervisory Committee of the political parties is paying particular attention to this. I will ask her to give explicit attention to this in the next round and to include any recommendations in the report. Then it comes back to the Chamber, because I always send those reports to the Chamber, with an accompanying letter about how I deal with them. So he's gonna make ends meet. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the research obligation of the original donors. Mrs Leijten has tabled an amendment to item No. 34 where it is said that it should be explicitly the obligation of the foundations that receive donations and then pass them on to a political party to register this. I say to Mrs Leijten that that is really a different system from that contained in this law. It means that a Greenpeace or a Milieudefensie must record all the gifts they receive and then send a selection of the gifts they forward to the political parties to the political parties. This is when in this law I do not really have any supervisory or enforcement powers to do anything with it. This law does do something about this, because there is an obligation for legal persons to make the natural persons behind it understandable. That is already a step, a step that is just very tangible. Mrs Leijten is actually going one step further and is also laying down something outside of those covered by the law, which may well lead to complicated situations. Nor do I have any supervisory or enforcement capabilities. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. I am more in favour of what I myself propose in the law, because the responsibility lies with the legal entities themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u89	The amendment in part No. 34 is the amendment to item No. 38 and has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u90	Yes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 32, on the cumulation of political parties and their secondary institutions. Mr Omtzigt has tabled an amendment on the cumulation of contributions received by political parties and their ancillary institutions and the reduction of the registration limit of contributions, as well as the keeping of two public registers. This amendment consists of several parts. The first part deals with the cumulation of the thresholds for disclosure of gifts to political parties and ancillary institutions. If one of the amendments on a ceiling were to be introduced, the cumulation would also apply to this. The threshold for publication of €4,500 per donor per year now applies to a political party and each secondary institution separately. This amendment also proposes that this threshold should apply to the political party and all the secondary institutions together. On the one hand, I fully understand the idea of cumulative transparency. Considering the donations to the political party and the secondary institutions as a whole further increases the transparency of the funding of political parties and ancillary institutions. I am concerned that this has not been dealt with in the review of the law. The Veling Committee has not found that there is a problem with this at the moment. Nor has the committee noted the need for measures to be taken. In addition, Mr Omtzigt says that at the same time you must have two public registers, because then it is clear what the secondary institutions are. You need to make that transparent, too. The administration is also separated. It is quite a step that Mr Omtzigt is taking. It changes the law on a number of points. I find it difficult at this stage to see what it does. It is a question of setting up a public register. What exactly does that satisfy? Does it only apply to the parties? Where should it be made public? What does the accumulation do in the interaction? How do parties deal with that? My proposal to the President would be that I should take the thoughts on this amendment to the Political Parties Act to see what contribution this can make to solving the problem. Why? Because then I can talk to the political parties myself and I can ask for advice on this. Then I can look at what this does in practice, so that I can check in advance to what extent it is feasible, what obstacles there are or are not in it and what possibilities there are in it. I would like to discourage the amendment at the moment, but I do admit that I want to take up the aspect of the public register and the cumulation to the Political Parties Act to see if there is indeed a need for a step here. That gives me the opportunity to talk to those who are concerned with this law and to ask the Council of State for advice in the context of new legislation, so that they can take part in it and look at what it does in practice in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u91	The amendment in part No. 32 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u92	But with the commitment to pick up a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u93	We heard that one. I shall first give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, because it concerns his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u94	Thank you for the commitment to pick this up. I'm gonna take a shot anyway. We've bought two, two and a half weeks. That gives the opportunity to consult. It would also allow for an urgent opinion from the Council of State. It's no big deal if he comes back and says, "Don't do this." There is an important advice there to say: think about it. Could that be something? We'll see where we stand in two weeks and see if this is feasible. I don't see the problem in the register. An average party will have four or five secondary institutions: a youth organisation, a scientific institute and perhaps a business club or something. But then you're here. So it is not in itself a long list that you have on your site. For example, I have already seen at D66 that they have all seven among themselves. There's nothing wrong with that. So I don't see what implementation problems we might have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u95	For me, the point is: what do these public registers look like? In what way do you supervise and what exactly do you ask? How does this relate to the system in the Finance Act political parties, in which political parties are obliged to submit a accountability document? It also requires something of the independence of supervision. We want them to be dealt with further in the Political Parties Act. I can only ask the Council of State for an urgent opinion on special legislation. The Political Parties Act will be in consultation at the end of this year, so I would suggest that the Chamber give us time to take a good look at this and consult with several parties on whether, and if so how, we can implement it. Two weeks is just short, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u96	I realize that it is short, but I also realise that I think it is quite important as a Member of Parliament to be able to table amendments to a legislative proposal. This is not an amendment that is strange to the bill. It touches the core of the bill, whether you agree or not. It wasn't made up. If that means we have to wait for another legal procedure, then I am out of my right to amend it. I'm just looking for a way you don't say: I look at the party, I look at the business club separately and I look at the youth organisation separately. No, you have one political party and you look at how many donations go from one donor to all those parts of the political party. Again, the reason I'm doing this is: if you want to avoid it, you can avoid it at the moment you're going to create twenty secondary settings. You only do that when you're looking for an escape route. We have seen that every evasive route brought in by the previous changes has also been used. That usually happened by accident, I say. So you can almost set the clock on that happening again. Suppose someone wants to give €20,000 to a party while the maximum will be €4,000. Then you point out five or six secondary institutions and then a party can say: well, cut it up into pieces of €3,900, do it to all those secondary institutions and then you're invisible. Isn't that what you're trying to avoid in front? And you can prevent that in this way. So why wouldn't you want to avoid that and why would you want to wait a few more years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u97	First of all, of course, I must say to Mr Omtzigt that every Member has the right of amendment. That's what we're talking about. We discuss with each other what the interpretation and the different insights are. It is also, of course, important to discuss this with each other, as Mr Omtzigt says. But Mr Omtzigt puts a number of things together in the amendment. I therefore think it is important to discuss this with individual political parties. I agree that it is important to prevent shortcuts. At the same time, I also see a great deal of willingness on the part of the political parties to comply properly with the law. A cumulative provision is now being proposed, and there will be a number of public registers, and there will also be a method of accountability. I therefore think it is very good that we should discuss this with the political parties on a broad basis at first, and that we should follow a careful path. We also need to look at how to work out these public registers properly. It is not my idea to make this a project of years, because I have just promised to consult the Political Parties Act at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u98	Of course, we have no reason to doubt this minister, because she has just arrived. But she is lagging behind in the Political Parties Act, I would say. But that's not what my interruption is about. I would like to come back to the amendment on item No. 38. I was just looking for a moment, because there are quite a few, so I hope I can get back to that amendment. The minister said: if Greenpeace or Milieudefensie has all collected tens, they cannot indicate who the donors are. The amendment simply has a solution to that. If the giver cannot make it clear who the givers are, the political party cannot accept the gift. I think that's very clear. Of course, the amendment is not about such a donation. The amendment concerns the donation that has been deliberately and knowingly collected for a political party by a fundraiser. In such a donation people can hide and remain unclear that they are more gifted. Everything here is about transparency. We simply want an organisation to donate, the political party to say: yes, thank you, but I need to know if you are an intermediary and, if so, who is behind the gift. And if you can't make that clear to me, I can't accept the gift. That is a systematic approach, and that is what is regulated in the amendment. What exactly is against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u99	There are two ways to do this. The one way that is now in the evaluation law is the way that is included in the legislative proposal. It states that political parties must also indicate who is behind the legal person. That is a responsibility of the political party. That is what the legal person must declare to the political party. Mrs Leijten's amendment actually shifts the burden of proof to the political parties themselves. They'll have to do that investigation. The political party must then make itself plausible whether or not the contribution is ultimately from the donor who is referred to as the donor. The tricky thing is that the supervisor does not have a direct role in this, because the political party itself is making the decision. In the construction that I chose in the bill, the legal person must also indicate which natural person is behind the gift. So I have a preference for following that pattern. In my view, the disadvantage of Mrs Leijten's proposal is that you cannot give the supervisor an active role in it, because he can never, or at least more difficult, have a clear view of the balance that the political party itself has made. In that sense, it is a difference of perspective. In any case, we believe that it is important to have more insight into it. Only the way it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u100	The moment you get a gift as a political party, you should know who gives you money. That is the position of the SP in any case. You should know who you're getting money from. Of course, this obligation to investigate is nothing more than asking: where does this money come from, who are the people behind it? If the far-reaching party of that gift can't hand it over, he won't hand it over, then you can't accept the gift. It's very simple. Where does the supervisor see eye to eye? Or the political party has requested it and whether it has in its administration who the donors are. It is quite clear what the role of the supervisor is. The moment you say "the one who gives money has to provide it," you can always play hide-and-seek. Last time I talked about fundraising and eating bitterballs with the Prime Minister, but it could also be funding parties that we are also discussing here, which we call undermining parties, which we may not want to put into a political party through a vehicle. That's why this political party needs to investigate "who's funding me?'. Doesn't it make sense to shape it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u101	It is a really good step in this law that requires the legal person to make it clear who the natural person behind it is. That is an additional obligation that was not laid down in the law. That makes it clear who's behind that legal person. The obligation of investigation which Mrs Leijten wants to impose with her amendment has the disadvantage that a political party can really implement it in its own way. It may well be that one does that much better than the other. I would prefer that responsibility to remain with the legal person. It's being taken care of now. It's getting more insightful. My proposal would not be to give the political party an obligation to investigate, because how can a supervisor properly implement this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u102	The entire Funding Act is supervised by political parties, for example by the Auditor's Statement. The supervisor says in case of a mistake he has found "we are not going to investigate at all." There are people or organisations to be appointed to ensure that a political party does this well. The Minister just gave the example that you could not give as Greenpeace or as Environmental Defense, because you have gifts, made up of tens and €25, you cannot make that clear, and that would not work with this amendment. The same does not apply to the Minister's example. Because at the moment that giver, in this case Greenpeace or Milieudefensie, says "here, dear party, you have an x-amount," then it cannot make that clear. And why can a political party accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u103	These are actually two different things. When it comes to who is behind the legal person, a natural person, that obligation comes into law. The other side is that the legal person takes care of it itself. Mrs Leijten's proposal says that the political party should check again whether it is. My story is about, I think, another aspect. That was the argument that you have legal entities that are not ancillary institutions registering themselves from whom they receive gifts to give transparency. That is what my earlier answer saw what Mrs Leijten is now referring to. I meant to name two different things there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u104	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u105	I do not think the latter is included in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u106	But that was also about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u107	Look, we want those intermediate vehicles out there... we're all gonna have bitterballs with the Prime Minister, then we're all gonna give gifts, and that's passed on to a political party at once. This is still very innocent. This could be about people who may not touch the €4,500 disclosure ground at all. But there can also be other organizations in such a vehicle. What this amendment does is that the political party should say: "Thank you for the €80,000, but I would like to know who the donors are. If you cannot guarantee me that you are not an intermediate vehicle for certain donors and I do not know who contributed to it, then I cannot accept it." No more, no less. So that doesn't see what the middle party's gonna do. That is what the political party must do. I think it is very good to raise the awareness of political parties about these kinds of intermediate movements that have been made, about the foundations and so on. Sometimes they are very friendly intermediates, but it can also be used for undermining, money laundering and that kind of activity. The political party has to show the accountant, the accountant, the supervisor: I'm doing a proper investigation into who gives me money, who finances me. That is this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u108	We have included in this law that the legal persons themselves must have the responsibility for the natural person behind it... This in itself must lead to the same result.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u109	I'm just looking for where to start. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which you are addressing the Chamber in this debate. You end your previous sentence with: this should lead to the same result. But it's not. Just to keep it very visual and simple: a foundation now donates €50,000 to a political party. It's unclear how that foundation got that $50,000. That amount could be made up of various donations. Mrs Leijten's amendment goes a little further than my Amendment No 2. 25. But isn't it strange that when a political party receives a donation from a foundation, you impose on that party the obligation to check with that foundation where the money comes from? And you say: yes, but the natural persons are insightful. Yeah, Pietje, Jantje, Keesje are on the board of the foundation, but that still doesn't tell us where the money came from. Do you think I have a point here? 'Cause that'd be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u110	Then Mr Ellian asks the following. If you have a random foundation that has a warm heart to nature, for example, nature monuments that have many donors, and if Natural Monuments want to subsidise a political party, then Nature Monuments must think of where all donations and gifts of natural persons came from. Those specific gifts should then be passed on to a political party. The question is whether that's what you're trying to do with this law. In the end, it is important that at Natuurmonumenten, where indeed certain people are on the foundation board, who is behind it becomes public and that they have also made a gift. But if I follow Mr Ellian's line of reasoning, that means that Nature Monuments have to write down which people she has received individual gifts and donations from, and she has to forward them to a political party. I think that's a lot to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u111	But you have a point there; I am certainly not too bad to admit it. When it comes to foundations that generally receive donations, also for their own benefit, you have a point: is it still reasonable and proportionate if you have to keep track of them all? I'll just mention something: Natural monuments get a million dollars and donate $50,000. So how do you make it clear how that €50,000 out of that million came about? You have a point. But you keep saying: the board members, the directors or the natural persons behind the foundation are known. But that doesn't mean anything, because they often don't even donate. At least, maybe they donate, but that's just the executives. But can you imagine that in some cases it makes sense to impose an obligation on a political party to at least ask a foundation where the money comes from? In your second block, you said that foundations, legal persons and natural persons should be able to donate up to €100,000. But then it remains essential for a political party to find out where money comes from. Otherwise, it's still partly a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u112	This is about an amendment that regulates something in the law. The effect of this is that a political party should ask for Natural Monuments: who gave you all the money and can I get the list of donors? That's what this is about. My suggestion would be not to do that. It's okay if you have a foundation called Mickey Mouse, to make it clear who the natural persons behind it are. The origin, the basis of this law has always been to make transparent who you get the money from. A political party is free sometimes to refuse gifts because they do not trust their origin. Of course, that is always open to a political party. But I am not concerned here with that point. This is the specific explanation of this amendment. That's what I'm responding to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u113	Can I understand the bill as such without the amendment? What if we have a political party? That political party has a business club. There are three board members in this business club: Renske Leijten, Khadija Arib and Pieter Omtzigt. We have a business club together. I don't know why. But we can't call people who aren't here. That's the new rule. So let me give it a try. We have gifts from up to 1,000 entrepreneurs. There are also very strange Russian billionaires, and I don't know what. They're all gonna give it to us. We're building up a nice capital of a few million. Then we'll give that couple million to one party at a time. It's gonna be just as difficult on either one of them. Anyway, we'll see about that. What do I report? So I've received all kinds of big gifts from billionaires. I'm gonna transfer $2 million to a political party. Do I then report three names, namely Renske Leijten, Khadija Arib and Pieter Omtzigt, or do I at that time report those great donors, as the bill now looks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u114	In this respect, I would first of all like to say to Mr Omtzigt: if the Chamber adopts the amendments I have given Chamber, then that one business club cannot donate more than several millions. But that aside. In the current situation, that could be the case. In that sense Mr Omtzigt of course plays perfectly on the ball. We will further define this in Article 21 of the proposed law, which we are talking about now, and also in the Decision funding political parties, if I am legally correct. But I have to come back to that in the second term. That is, of course, also under this decision. But I would like to come back to that in the second term. This is a technical issue. Then I can pass that on to the Chamber. I now find it a little difficult to deal entirely with the technique of the decision with the AMvBs that are underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u115	This may be a technical point in an AMvB, but it is a crucial point in this bill. This whole bill came about because of certain business clubs. If the possibility is there, then I would like to know from the government how it intends to limit that possibility. It's fine not to make it impossible. I am now afraid that we will soon be making crowdfunding impossible and facilitating business clubs. I would like an explanation from the government before the second term on those two points. In what way is a form of crowdfunding... suppose I'm going to do crowdfunding. I have a maximum amount of €100. Then I will remain below the limit of Mrs Leijten's €125. Can I just do crowdfunding in a decent way, because we all think of it: we are not at risk of having much influence? Do you want to make that possible? In the explanation we get for the second term, would you like to tell us how the business clubs are somewhat regulated? If that is not the case, then the legislative proposal lacks the purpose for which it was put here. If you have to do that via an AMvB, you have to do it via an AMvB. I would therefore like a written explanation on both points. It's a good thing there's a week of recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u116	There are a number of aspects to this. Firstly, the purpose of the bill, as Mr Omtzigt says. The purpose of the bill, as it has been laid down here, is to strengthen the transparency provisions surrounding the Financing Act political parties. The House has a number of amendments to that, including an amendment on maximation, which I have given to the Chamber. We can take that one step further. Then there is the system under Article 20 and what needs to be made known. I understand the question better now that Mr Omtzigt has explained more clearly what the point is. Ultimately, we look at the system of the Law on Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. The concept of stakeholders, which is behind it, must be known. That's the system we followed. Therefore, the article already refers to the stakeholder concept of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u117	Then I get it, but I'd still like to get that letter. That letter is important for the history of law, because it could provide a handle for treasurers of political parties. They can say: if I stick to these four conditions, I can do it nicely. I share the Minister's view that political parties want to do it nicely, but here we have to assess whether there will be a working method for foundations and business clubs, a method of crowdfunding and a method of working for members. Those are the three things you can get money from. We all have to say: if that's the way it is, it's gonna look nice. Is the Minister prepared to provide that for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u118	In my view, that is simply a request for information, to put the aspect of secondary institutions, business clubs and crowdfunding side by side in the system of the law. Of course, I have no problem with that at all. We can just write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u119	That is a clear commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u120	However, it is important that I include in the law what the intention of the law has been, namely to strengthen the transparency of funding. I notice that a number of discussions here are about preventing shortcuts and that sort of thing. Within the framework of the Political Parties Act, I will take up these arguments and study them further to see what else is going on. But this is, of course, really meant as the elaboration of the Veling Committee. This also has to do with the fact that the law on political parties is not yet in place. That is why a number of discussions are mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u121	It is precisely because of the lack of this law on political parties that we can now regulate it in this law. That's what we're talking about right now. There is no need to push it forward to that law, if the Chamber is just going to vote now. After all, the Finance Act political parties will eventually be inserted into the Law on political parties. That's what we've always been told. So we can just sort it out now. I would like to ask the Minister one more time what exactly is the difference. When she says, "Now must be known..." Every time she mentions beautiful, sweet examples, such as Milieudefensie and nature conservation. I can see why she does that. She does not mention organisations that may not be built up with donations from a lot of people at home, but want to exercise influence in a different way. These are, for example, criminal, semi-criminal organisations with intermediate income or very rich parties hiding it, people who use the Zuidas to launder huge amounts of money obtained abroad. 'Cause, of course, you can. If she says that it is perfectly transparent now if the political party accepts the gift or not, then the amendment is no longer a problem. The amendment is about when you accept it or not. If it is already transparent, then the amendment is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u122	I find that in mentioning my examples I haven't quite let go of my previous function. I've been a Deputy Nature. The first examples I think of are Natural Monuments, Milieudefensie and other things. So that's what it has to do with before. Perhaps the examples would have been something else if I had just come out of military service. The natural examples just came to mind first. It is ultimately about that... Suppose: organization X donates €3,000 to a political party. That organization receives 500 different donations a year. How are you ever gonna figure out which of those 500 donations is being transferred to a political party? Is this a practical development of the intention to find the natural legal person behind it? For this we have chosen the system of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, the Wwft. That is how we chose this system. It's almost impossible to cut with scissors. I just don't think that's practical either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u123	I think it's super practical. If a political party can't ascertain who the donors are through that intermediate foundation, whether it's Natuurmonumenten, de rotary, een businessclub or something with a much more dubious edge, you don't accept it! That is what this amendment says. If, as a political party, you don't find out because it may be so complicated because there are so many donors, you say, "It's very nice that you want to give it, but it doesn't work. Perhaps you can call on your members to give something to us, because then we can accept it." That's just what you do then, right? Sometimes you just can't take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u124	Let us give a positive example: a foundation to promote something receives 500 different gifts from people and wants to pass them on to a political party. Do you, as a political party, ask the foundation of which donors she ultimately passed the money on to? It's really complicated, isn't it? The duty we now have in this legislative proposal is to look at the Foundation's objective. If it's a very aggressive, not acceptable goal for a natural person, you get that insightfully, then the political party can make a trade-off. Mrs Leijten makes it very intensive and also quite difficult for organisations to implement this. But I see that I repeat my arguments, and Mrs Leijten is a very good listener, so I do not want to tarnish her any further with my arguments which are always the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u125	The question is indeed whether you will agree. Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u126	I don't think so. The Minister says the bill sees transparency as knowing who gives. That's what we all want. The amendment states that if you don't know who gave it, because that foundation or that association has received so many donations that you can't unravel it anymore, you can't accept it. Period. That's the difference. That amendment does not, therefore, mean that the foundation or the association must put all this together. No, you can't accept it. In my view, this is a very clear boundary for political parties. The Chamber will be able to say whether or not it agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u127	The point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u128	I would like to say to Mrs Leijten that we have opted for a different system: the system of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, whereby the directors and the persons behind the legal person must be made clear. The aim is the same type of effect. Apart from that, a political party is always free to investigate whether or not it wants to investigate further. But I wouldn't want to put that in the law like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u129	Maybe an attempt on my part to understand it a little better. It is not a question of whether it is a charity or not, whether it is a very fine foundation that gives money to promote something. No, it's about the issue of influence. You don't want that, or at least you want to make it clear. That is why I do not understand the Minister's explanation. In any case, it's very subjective to see if something is or isn't a charity. That's why it should just be made clear. I think that's the point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u130	The basis on which this law was built is ultimately to make the gifts transparent. It is always the political party that, on the basis of this law itself, decides whether or not to accept a gift. So if a political party has doubts about the origin of the money, then it can always make the decision itself not to receive gifts. I am more concerned with the practical feasibility of Mrs Leijten's proposal. In addition, you have to cut with scissors what money a legal person has received. That money will then be passed on to the party. In the end, that has to be understood. But a political party always has the choice to investigate whether or not the origins of its gifts are acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u131	Mrs Westerveld and I would like to move on to another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u132	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. But that's the subjective thing. What is not acceptable to one party may be acceptable to another. In particular, I read in the amendment the point that it must be clear where it comes from. Ready. So don't cut anything with a pair of scissors. There has to be clarity, precisely in the interests of transparency. I therefore believe that this is a different point from the Minister's argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u133	What is of course important here is that political parties can have very different views and ideologies. In doing so, one political party might want to receive a gift from someone who is in favour of encouraging the use of petrol cars, while I can imagine that another political party would not do so because it no longer considers it acceptable in the climate objective it advocates. Then you will make a subjective description of what you may or may not find acceptable as a political party to receive. That could go a long way. Because that would mean that a donation of... I think the example was clear enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u134	Mrs. Van der Plas, at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u135	I've been listening to it all this way. I am also looking at Mrs Leijten in my question. If an organization has donors, let's say 1,000 donors, and if it knows exactly the origin of 900 donors, then they can donate that money to a political party. But of the other 100, whose it's not known, it can't. Then it's not a problem, is it? Then one of these organizations only gives the money from which it is known. That seems pretty simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u136	To work that out... Let's say that it brought in €90,000 with 900 donors and you transfer €3,000 to a political party. Then that political party should ask that foundation which €3,000 of which donors has been. Then the foundation should look into the overview: could it or could it be and have they done so with a view to subsidising a political party? I think it's a bit of a work of art. That's why. We do not believe that we need to gain more insight into transparency, as we do with this legislative proposal. But I just find this rather difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u137	Then who is it difficult to implement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u138	In the end, it is a job for the political party to find out and also to check that it is true. Because how are you gonna check if you get the right information or if it's just a green check mark? The supervisor can't just look at an organization like that. I see that there are different insights about this. I am therefore also pleased that Mrs Van der Plas is asking about this, but that is at least how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u139	Finalizing, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u140	Yeah, yeah, it's rounding up. Whether it's difficult to implement for a political party doesn't matter. That is a problem for the political party, not for the cabinet. I'd say do it like this; you're making it very difficult for yourselves, but be my guest and do it. That is how I see it and so I read the amendment. So I do not see the problem of the amendment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u141	The House is about voting on the amendments. This at least makes it clear how Mrs Van der Plas views this. Mr. Chairman. I had promised that I would at least try to get through it at a reasonable pace; so I will continue to do so. Several amendments have been tabled on foreign financing. Mrs Leijten has the amendment to item No. 14 submitted. It proposes a total ban on gifts from abroad, with the exception of voters residing abroad for the Lower House elections. I do not recommend that amendment, but I also wrote it in the note on the report. Our proposal is to allow gifts from the European Union and the European Economic Area, because there are also many contacts with sister institutions and parties and because we do not want to hinder them. That is why we have chosen this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u142	The amendment in part No. 14 got part number 43.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u143	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u144	Can the Minister explain why an Italian person or an Austrian charity would like to give a gift to a Dutch political party concerned with Dutch democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u145	There's a lot to fill in, but then I'm going to philosophize ahead. The same applies to Dutch roots, or other things. Maybe that person is involved. In any case, we have kept it open because of the contacts with the European sister parties, but I am also somewhat reluctant to philosophize about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u146	There are parties that have an American sister party. This bill doesn't allow that. What exactly is the difference between a sister party in Europe and a sister party in Latin America or in Southeast Asia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u147	We've actually just pretty practically chosen a demarcation. We have chosen this demarcation and we could have chosen a different demarcation. There are just a lot of contacts with sister parties around the European Union and the European Economic Area. The moment you take countries out of them or put other countries in them, you will also end up in another discussion. Then where do you draw the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u148	My amendment draws the border with the Netherlands. It is about Dutch democracy, Dutch voters and Dutch influence, so according to my amendment, only Dutch gifts are allowed. According to this bill, gifts should not come from outside Europe, because that would influence. It could also affect non-free countries. But yes, we also know that there is quite a lot of discussion within the European Economic Area and within the EU about the so-called state of democracy in other Member States. We also know that there is quite a lot of discussion about funding political parties by certain wealthy people in the world, others say that this is undesirable. If the Minister says that it is arbitrary and that gifts from Europe are allowed because of gifts from sister parties, why not say: you can no longer give from outside the Netherlands, with the exception of sister parties? Then each party can designate one or more sister parties, but then at least that becomes clear and then you draw the line very clearly. Moreover, I would not be in favour of excluding the sister parties, but according to the reasoning it would be pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u149	In this way, we have taken into account both the Dutch residents living in Europe and the sister parties. We have delineated it in this way because it is then a delimitation by means of national borders. Otherwise you have to keep a list of what are or are not sister parties and to what extent. In any case, this has been the reasoning for us to do so. That is also the answer I can give Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u150	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u151	I have the feeling it's a wanted argument. Actually, I don't think that's so good. This is about the funding of Dutch political parties participating in elections in the Netherlands, preferably also locally. We're gonna get to that later. The voters in the Netherlands You can also opt for Dutch democracy abroad, but then you're Dutch too, so why would you get funding from foreign parties for the future of the Netherlands? I really do not think that is pure, and so I ask the Minister whether, as foreign sister parties, she wants to apply the pure reasoning. As I said, there are also sister parties outside Europe. Otherwise, it really seems as if this element of the bill has been used to thwart the funding of certain political parties, and I wouldn't like it if we had that feeling after tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u152	I want to make it very clear that it is not. There has really been a search for a demarcation around Europe and the sister parties, so I would like to make it clear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u153	This was still about the amendment to item No. 43. So that's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u154	There has been a search for a demarcation around Europe and that is why we have reached the EU. Yeah, I'd like another reason. Many participants in the debate have referred to Malta, a source of corruption, or Romania, a source of corruption. Apparently it's fine to get money out of there but a country like the United States, which is just a NATO partner, we're seeing how important that is these days too, not kosher. So there are many other countries. The minister said, "Where do you put the border?" Well, in the explanatory statement we see, for example, the cry 'free and unfree countries'. So can the Minister just make it clear with arguments why, according to her proposal, it is fine to get money from corrupt countries like Malta and Romania, but what is wrong with America as our main trading partner and our main military partner? 'Cause that's a weird reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u155	When the legislative proposal was drawn up, we really looked at how we could achieve a demarcation which, given the contacts with sister parties, is somewhat explanatory. We came to the European Union and the European Economic Area. Mr Bosma is right to say that the countries of the European Union sometimes have different colours, and there are also discussions about the rule of law and the like. Then there is the consideration of whether to appoint specific countries. That will be an interesting discussion, because what can be a good country can be a very different country for the other. Russia is seen by one as a strong and positive country, while a lot of people look at Russia differently. In the final analysis, this definition was chosen very practically in order not to get into that trap. This means that all countries outside the European Union and the European Economic Area are excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u156	Yeah, but those are still not arguments. In her explanatory statement, the Minister used the expression 'unfree and free countries'. I don't know where it came from, but apparently that's something used by the State Department. Why couldn't that be a coat rack? It's obvious that America... Once again, that is the largest democracy in the world, the most important trading partner and, first and foremost, a military ally. Isn't it strange that that country is out there and all kinds of countries in that damned European Union are suddenly acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u157	It is good to explain that in any case, in this legislative proposal, we have also arranged for all donations from the European Union to be subject to a zero disclosure threshold. So of all gifts from all countries, it must be clear that they come from there. We have done this very consciously, to make that understanding optimal. The choice between certain countries has ultimately reached the European sister parties. In that sense, I would also like to use that as the most supporting argument for this choice, because what is free and unfree is simply difficult and interpretable. If the United States is, why not a Canada or an Australia, when we work well with it? This shows the scope of the discussion and why we have come to this definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u158	I was wondering, because I just honestly don't know. Many other countries in the European Union have made the choice to simply ban category foreign financing. I wonder, therefore, whether it is very common for political parties to receive money from a European sister institution. Is that something we really need to take into account? Is that so important to make this strange construction with a distinction between the EU and non-EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u159	For us, it has ultimately been a consideration of how to do it. How different countries in the European Union deal with it is very diverse. Indeed, some countries have a total ban on gifts from outside their own borders. Others do sometimes and sometimes they don't. It's very different. So you do not see one common thread in the European countries. I also asked, because Mr Van Baarle also mentioned it in his speech. I thought that was a legitimate question. I asked that out. Do we see one red thread? But they really do have different systems. In any case, we have reached this balance in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u160	But my question was: I simply do not know whether there is a great deal of use being made of gifts from European sister parties at the moment. Because if it isn't, we're creating some kind of artificial route for something that's not being used at all. Then I think it's a weird form. Then we just have to say: let's ban it category, because it's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u161	Gifts from abroad occur in a broad sense rather sporadically. There aren't hundreds of them, so to speak. So it's pretty small.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u162	"Very small" is not really an answer to my question. The question was: did money come from European sister institutions? Look, if we come to the conclusion that it just hasn't happened in recent times, then we don't have to offer that possibility either, because apparently it doesn't happen. And so I would not consider it proportionate to make that distinction between the EU and non-EU, just on the basis of that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u163	I cannot go into the books directly, so what I would like to do with your permission, Mr President, to Mr Van Baarle, is to give an overview of this in the letter on Mr Omtzigt's point that I am already sending to the Chamber. Then we know what we're talking about. Because I'm not ready to do that right now. I really need to dive in. That way we can do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u164	That commitment is noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u165	Mr. Chairman. That was the funding from foreign parties. A question was also asked about circumvention constructions. Yes, that is always possible, in the sense that even if you had a total ban on funding by foreign parties, you could always do a gift to an individual natural person in the Netherlands, who could then transfer it to a political party. That doesn't prevent this law either. Even with the amendment to restrict the ban on donations to the Netherlands, it is simply not a waterproof system. Of course, you have fewer possibilities than there were before. I do have more information about the amount of gifts from abroad. In total, seven political parties vary between €6,000 and €355,000 between 2018 and 2020. But I'm just making an overview of 2018-2020, with every year what it is exactly, so I say to Mr Van Baarle. Then there's a little more overview. So I'll make that further breakdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u166	It comes in the letter that was just promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u168	That's the question I asked. Thanks for the answer. Imagine living in a very unfree country and giving something to a political party. Then you set up a bv in the Netherlands. I know how you do that, through the Zuidas; it's not that hard. So you set up an e.g. or a trust. From there, you pour the money. That's perfectly legal here, whether we adopt that amendment or not. You are currently in the Netherlands with your legal person. Is there any way to monitor that? I think we're just uncomfortable with that. I don't think I'm the only one who doesn't think that's quite the point. Has the government thought about a way to put that under surveillance, to formally ban it if you know that it is happening or to at least make it much more difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u169	The first step we take in this bill is to make it a lot harder. We're setting standards on it for the first time. At the same time, I am aware that there may always be people there, where you make standards, there are some of them, compared to the others who simply want to comply with the law, who will take advantage of it. This law will, of course, also be evaluated. I think this is one of the points to be highlighted in the evaluation. At the moment, we have not made any further regulations for this, because we want to monitor the functioning of these provisions. Of course, the supervisor also has a role to play in finding out where the gifts come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u170	The supervisor can only supervise if he has a toolbox to see where those gifts come from. If the supervisor does not have the opportunity to ask through, for example whether the e.g. has received a certain amount via something else, but simply publishes the figures of the e.g. with perhaps the ultimate beneficial owner, then you are there. Is it not possible to create a hook for this kind of thing in the law, through a note of amendment or in another way, so that the supervisor can lay down further rules when he sees that money being poured out, so that he can intervene if this becomes a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u171	Then perhaps you should also use the Civil Code to impose nationality requirements, so that you are not allowed to donate to a political party on a particular nationality. Whether and how that works really falls outside the scope of this bill at the moment. For example, there is no nationality requirement in the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. I think that the system we are now choosing is a good step. I'm in favour of putting that in. At the same time, I see that this is a point for the evaluation to look at, because does this ultimately not provoke behavior that we do not want? But I would not fill it out in advance in the way Mr Omtzigt now indicates. I don't see that happening right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u172	Rounding off, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u173	There is, of course, a nationality requirement in it now, because within the EU it is not allowed and outside the EU it is not allowed. We are not laying the border with the Netherlands, but with the EU. That's a choice you can make. I am going to fill it out for the Minister, because I think there is another reason why you accept gifts from foreign political parties, namely that you are campaigning together in, for example, European campaigns. You are a member of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in Europe or you are a member of the European People's Party and you are campaigning together. You can even put candidates of each other's nationality on the list at the moment, so it makes perfect sense that you can build a joint pot for that purpose. Otherwise you shouldn't have a joint European group, I'm just saying. But for Dutch politics we have this problem. Why can't we have a way of monitoring Dutch politics? Why can we only look at the evaluation to see if it can't be done by means of a detour, still through donations? Isn't there another way to say you can't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u174	Right now, it's just really outside the scope of the law. To clarify what I said earlier, I was concerned that you should apply a nationality requirement to those who set up an e.g. I didn't put that clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u175	I thought I'd wait until the end of the block to find out if the Minister is going to answer my explicit question about independent supervision of the Political Parties Finance Act. Will you come back to that or shall I just ask the question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u176	In the block on the law on political parties, I will certainly address Mrs Arib's question. Definitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u177	Okay, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u178	Fine. Mrs Van der Graaf has another interruption on this point. I'm gonna need you to turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u179	Now I'm avenging that I'm interrupting this new Chamber for the first time. I would also like to ask whether the Minister will give an explicit answer to the question I had asked in connection with the example of Russian money given to a Dutch political party through a Hungarian legal entity, also in view of the current context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u180	Oh, yeah. It cannot be excluded that a gift can indeed be made to a Dutch person via a Hungarian intermediary. There's no way to rule that out. Then you should use an intermediary in the EU or in the European Economic Area. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u181	Now that that cannot be ruled out, what does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u182	The tricky thing about that is that whenever you make new regulations, there is a risk that they will be bypassed again. For me, the first thing at this stage is that we simply make a firm demarcation here. The discussion in the Chamber is still: is that European Union, European Economic Area or the Netherlands? Even then, these kinds of constructions are needed. When it comes to the functioning of new regulations, of course, you always have to look at and evaluate whether they do what they can. I do not yet see the solution with which we can make it completely watertight at the moment, I say to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u183	I am actually looking for an opinion from the Minister as to whether she thinks this is an undesirable situation. Because if we see that with each other, then we can look for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u184	Of course, I am never waiting for any regulations we deal with here in the Chamber to come up with shortcuts in relation to the intention of the law. At the same time, I also realise that we must always look at new regulations to see whether or not they are being abused. This is the first step. I think we should look at how that will work and then review and adapt. That is what I think is right about what the Veling Committee has done. It has really evaluated the initiative proposal, or the proposal that was before it. There have also been a few strong points. That is what these proposals are for and we are not finished with them. So as a minister, I'm never happy with a law that's being bypassed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u185	Finalizing, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u186	The Veling Committee sees this as well and therefore proposes that we do not do so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u187	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u188	I think we should start weighing this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u189	That's right. By the way, you still run the risk of someone doing it again through an intermediary. But that is indeed the balance the Chamber stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u190	Are we already at the block of subsidising national political parties or not yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u191	Yes, block five: the subsidising nationwide political parties. A question has been asked about the distribution of the funds from the Jetten motion. The funds, with the exception of the €350,000 that I made available to local political parties in the 2020-2024 period, have been added to the general part of the grant. Indeed, no funds have been earmarked for the secondary institutions. This is also because we are simply following very explicitly the Jetten motion, which has not mentioned specific frameworks for the allocation of additional resources. It was just pretty open. That is why we have taken over the choice of the Chamber in the distribution. So we didn't do any ear tags either. Political parties can therefore decide for themselves how to distribute these resources. They can choose to spend it, for example, on political youth organisations or on scientific institutes. Mrs Van der Graaf has an amendment to item No. 37......................................................................................................... That was also signed by Mrs Arib of the PvdA. The aim of this amendment is to provide for a mutual distribution between political youth organisations and scientific institutes in order to organise more certainty. I can follow that reasoning, I say to Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Arib. I would simply ask that both Members at least amend this amendment in a technical manner. If that's possible, I can give the judgment room. Let me explain. We cannot do this retroactively. That's just not possible. Of course, the years 2020 and 2021 are already over and the implementation for 2022 is now under way. But we could introduce this by 2023. I would therefore like to give the House's opinion on this amendment, but I would ask the authors to state in the explanatory statement that it will enter into force by 2023. That's something to think about. If that doesn't happen, it's a very difficult situation. Then we have to redistribute money with retroactive effect. I really wouldn't want to do that to the political parties. As a minister, I have not been a reliable partner in the implementation of this subsidy scheme either. So here is the request to the applicants to do so. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked why I didn't just go through the 9 million structuralally. That's because I don't have the money on the budget. The Jetten motion has a structural coverage of 5 million since 2025. That is the money I can make available to the political parties at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u192	The amendment in part No. 37 will be judged Chamber if it is technically modified...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u193	So it's run by 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u194	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u195	I think that's a reasonable request. We shouldn't ask the impossible either. It is important, however, that we make that distinction and that the scientific institutes and also the youth organisations know what they are entitled to by law. This also guarantees the independence of the scientific institutes. That's the underlying reason. That is not why I walked forward. So it's good to mark this. We're gonna change that. I didn't just ask the loose question to continue the increase in the Jetten money in the first few years until after 2024. I have framed this question by asking whether, in the case of greater transparency, people might also be more reluctant to give a gift to a political party. I had outlined a situation in which it would be possible for political parties to have less support. Is it not reasonable to consider a more objective form of financing of political parties and to see if this can be done through the subsidy framework? So I'm not asking for extra money right now. I'll tell the minister we should keep an eye on this after all. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion. How does she see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u196	I think that the weather largely depends on the thresholds that the Chamber itself is going to set for the maximisation of donations, to what extent you make it possible or not to subsidise parties. We're just going to evaluate this law according to the usual structure. Then these aspects will be taken into account. I, of course, deliberately started with the history of the political parties, which have only been subsidised themselves since 1999. It is also balancing between, on the one hand, giving government subsidies and, on the other hand, getting more and more into the situation where you are going to make extra demands on political parties about the state subsidy, and, on the other hand, the autonomy of parties to get their own income. My commitment is to keep that balance, because I think it is a healthy and balanced balance. I therefore believe that we should evaluate this type of case. I am careful, however, to say that this should lead to more public subsidies, because I also think that we should give political parties the room to keep that balance and not become completely dependent on government subsidies. Mr. Chairman. I am now addressing Mrs Bromet Bromet to Mrs Westerveld, who has asked how it is ensured that the number of members on which the subsidy is based is correct. The audit of the members shall be carried out as follows: Political parties must submit a grant application to BZK before 1 November of the new year. Part of this application is an estimate of the number of prospective members on 1 January of the grant year, the reference date. This must be a real assessment. If it differs considerably from the number of members in the previous year, further explanations shall be requested. At the end of the grant year, the political party must submit an approval statement from an independent auditor for the determination of the grant, which should also cover the number of party members. If there is any doubt as to the accuracy of the auditor's clearance, the Audit Service can be asked to carry out a review with the party's accountant. I say to Mrs Westerveld that it has indeed happened once before that an auditor did not give an explanation of vote for the members because he had doubts about it. At the end of the day, that led to the accountant saying, in good consultation with the political party, what can you see? This has led to a lower number of members. At the time, we also said that we wanted the Audit Service to check again whether it was true. In practice, therefore, these rules are really being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u197	I have a supplementary question on this. It seems to me that it is rather complicated for an accountant to check from sometimes tens of thousands of members whether they are actually members, or that they may have recently withdrawn their membership or that they actually exist and so on. Shouldn't there be a second opinion by default? Shouldn't there be an additional check on the number of political parties by default?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u198	It is an independent accountant, who really has the mandate to do so and who from his profession cannot just tick a tick that it is good. In practice, I see that they take that seriously and, if they have any doubts in the parties, they simply do not give an affirmative statement. I can rely on the professionalism of the auditors and I see in practice that they are being followed up. Of course, the Supervisory Committee is also looking at political parties. There's financial knowledge in that, too. If that supervisor still has doubts as to whether it is correct, he can go to work with the Audit Service Reich. So we've got a kick in it. I think it's okay as it is now, also because I see that it just works. With the audit, the Audit Service Reich and always the supervisor who is also looking at it, who is doing that separately, I actually think that there is a good system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u199	Perhaps for the sake of clarification, it was at no time my intention to question the expertise of the auditors. It is more so, of course, that it is rather complicated to find out whether the number of members is correct and whether people are not registered as members for a while while they may have just cancelled their membership by telephone, which means that there is no proof. That is the background to my question. So I am not questioning it for accountants, but because it has indeed gone wrong before. Is it indeed done enough to find out if there are parties that are not quite honest in passing on the membership numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u200	Luckily, it's a box to sit behind the commas in the numbers. Fortunately, we have the accountants who do that. They are doing well and I trust that they will be able to do their job well at that time. So far, I have not received any signals that they are not able to carry out this task sufficiently. Of course, we can ask that again. The supervisor may also ask whether the auditors feel sufficiently equipped. My view is that this is the case at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked about the social rooting of parties. In fact, we have just discussed this balance with Mrs Van der Graaf. In my view, Mr Bisschop was right about this balance sheet, namely that it is not only a question of state aid but also of financing natural persons. You also have to keep an eye on the balance, namely that you can get funding from different sources. I will tell Mr Bishop that it is really very important that the voter can see where the money comes from, who it is from and when it is given. I would like to say that to Mr Bishop. Mr Bishop has also tabled two amendments, namely No. 28 and in part No 28 and in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part No 28, in part This is about reversing the proposal on funding for political youth organisations. The point is that they do not receive a basic amount, but only an amount per seat and per member. I believe that a basic amount increases the stability of the subsidy for political youth organisations, and that is why I have followed the opinion of the Veling Committee. On the other hand, if a majority of this Chamber thinks that we should continue the current situation with regard to youth organisations, I do not see any major objections to this. So the amendment in part No. 29 I'm judging Chamber. I think that such a basic amount can help. With the amendment in part No. 28 Mr Bishop says: we must set the basic amount for political youth organisations at €25,000. This would further stabilise the subsidy for political youth organisations. Since the system remains the same, this means an increase in the budget for the subsidy of political youth organisations, if I do so. I don't have any resources for that. The amendment in part No. 28 I therefore advise against, because I have no financial coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u201	The amendment in part No. 28 has been dissuaded and the amendment to item No 28 has been rejected. 29 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u202	Yes. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of That is the amendment of the VVD, the Christian Union and the Party for Animals to maintain the basis for the subsidy for foreign institutions for the Political Parties Finance Act. I have some arguments for transferring it from the Home Office to the Foreign Office. We do that because everything is in one pot, because you can spend it with each other and because it is also easier in the execution. At the same time, I also see arguments in favour of just sticking to the Home Office. I can see that, too. That is why I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u203	The amendment in part No. 27 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u204	Mr. Chairman. I come to the last point before I get to the sixth block, the subsidy of decentralised political parties. Then I will deal with the question of the independence of the monitoring of the Political Parties Act, as Mrs Arib also pointed out. A further question has been asked about the divisions. Some members commented on the proposal in the evaluation law to link the grant to the number of seats a political party obtained in the elections to the House of Representatives throughout the parliamentary term. Mr Van Baarle pointed out that members of Parliament who were critical and split up should not be deprived of the possibility of establishing and receiving funding for a political party in the long term while those members were still in the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt also spoke about this. Mr Van Baarle asked what I think of this phenomenon. He also said: it can never be a punishment for criticizing your old political party. Of course, I agree with Mr Van Baarle that the expression of opposing sounds, of criticism, is simply a very important right in our democracy. I did not intend to include this part in the legislative proposal in order to contribute to the discussion on whether and, if so, what support should Members of Parliament receive. For me, the starting point has been to make the subsidy for political parties more stable. In fact, I have just followed the Veling Committee. That committee made this proposal, which also included it in this legislative proposal. This also offers greater stability to the parties elected in the elections in the Chamber. Mr Veling's reasoning was that the next election will show how much support there will eventually be for a newly created political party. At that point, so after that new election, you're gonna adjust it. So it has nothing to do with criticism and other matters for me, but this has really been done from the point of view of stability. I come to the question of the subsidy of decentralised political parties. A number of political groups have raised questions about the financing of decentralised parties. Those questions are about two subjects. There are questions about rules on the transparency of the financing of decentralised parties. And there are questions about the introduction of a subsidy scheme for this. Mrs Leijten has tabled an amendment, on item No. 22, which relates to both subjects. First of all, I would like to comment on the questions raised about the subsidy scheme for decentralised political parties and on the part of Mrs Leijten's amendment that sees it. It is important to note that, at least for the next period, from 2022 to 2024, with the Jetten motion, there is an additional funding of €350,000 for the Knowledge Point local political parties. At the same time, I also see that, in current politics, we should also discuss whether we should not examine whether more support for local political parties and decentralised political parties is possible. I think Mrs Van Dijk went into that. Of course, we also have the water boards and the provinces. Is it possible to explore with each other whether we should take steps towards more support? That makes me think that at least in the Political Parties Act I want to make a real effort to take this funding of local political parties a step further. In my view, there are arguments for this from the point of view of resilient governance. I believe that we have steps to take from that point of view. At the same time, at the moment, I do not have any funding that will allow me to implement this. The legislative process gives me the opportunity to take a good look at whether I can take a step forward. This means that at least at this moment I am not recommending Mrs Leijten's amendment. I am not in favour of a redistribution of funding at the moment. What I see is that we need to see whether and to what extent we can better support decentralised political parties, including from the point of view of resilient governance, where it is also good to work towards transparency. But that also means that I have time to see how political parties can be implemented in the Law, because that will, of course, also differ from the rules for national political parties, because it is also just another layer of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u205	The amendment in part No. 22 according to our administration has received the piece number 41 and is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u206	Dissuade me with the argument "wait but for the Political Parties Act" irritates me a bit. After all, we have been waiting for that law for so long, we are doing well with this law and this law is being passed in that law. I would like to ask the Minister: is the jumping point that there is no extra money for it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u207	Those are two arguments. Yeah, there's no extra money for it right now. The second is that I want to take a good look at how we're going to do that. We also need to address possible vulnerabilities at local and decentralised levels. And what exactly is practical for smaller parties to do? They, of course, do not, like some of the parties sitting here, have to do with a large party office that can do certain administrative acts and other business. So it also takes customization. So yes, it's funding. I don't have any extra funding right now. And local parties are really organized differently. Then how do you ensure that you can do something to strengthen the resilience of the board but not ask them over in what you set as rules? I just don't have the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u208	Basically, no extra money is needed. We can just redistribute. It is a choice, also to this Chamber, to be or not to be. As I understand the Minister now, as soon as the Political Parties Act comes, there will be no guarantee that there will be extra money, and we will look at the reinforcement. No, this amendment says that there will be subsidies for local parties. Period. I also said last week: if technical things had to be different in order to make it feasible, then we are very open to it. Because I want to put this proposal in the law as best I can. I would like the Minister to look into whether she sees any problems there. We don't agree on the money. I do not agree with the Minister's argument that we should wait for the Political Parties Act. But if there is a majority in this Chamber who says 'yes, sorry, but we support that principle of funding for local parties and we vote in favour of this amendment', then I would like to make sure that this amendment is good. Maybe that can't be discussed right now. We have a little more time because hopefully we'll continue the week after the recess. Then I hope that we can get out and that there is such a good amendment that, if it is adopted, it will not be a problem in implementation. I think it would be a real shame if that were to stand in the way of the choice of principle. Principle, okay, funding, okay, but if we take it, it's got to be good in the law. I'll give the Minister a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u209	If a Member of Parliament asks for technical assistance for what an amendment should look like, then, of course, he will always receive technical assistance. When I hear Mrs Leijten, it is also about substantive considerations. What exactly that looks like, of course, also requires a debate in this Chamber. I must also say to Mrs Leijten that at the moment we do not yet have a clear idea of how we should do that, apart from the fact that I do not have a budget to deal with this at the moment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u210	I asked whether it would be possible to make it clear, if we were going for this redistribution, what that would look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u211	I can do that in the letter to Mr Omtzigt... I'm in default now. Mrs Leijten had also asked what such a redistribution would be like. We will simply make a calculation based on the different political parties. That's kind of rough. Of course, we can't see it in detail. We're gonna have municipal elections, too. The votes are about the same as the municipal elections. We don't know exactly what's coming out of that either. So it is a model thing. But it'll give you an impression. We will also write down the assumptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u212	So that comes back to the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u213	I hear the Minister say that she intends to make it possible to finance decentralised local political parties. I'd like to see that confirmed. Did I understand correctly from the Minister that she intends to take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u214	I want to see how I can do that in a good way. In doing so, I must take into account the local situation of political parties and decentralised too, i.e. the provinces. At the same time, my view is that I also need funding to be able to do so. In the Jetten motion, the Chamber asked for a redistribution to support itself further, because the Chamber is truly convinced that this is necessary for a better interpretation of the role of the people's representative and political party. So this redistribution means that this initial wish of the Chamber will really have a negative effect on the intrinsic desire of these MPs, these political parties, to strengthen themselves in order to be able to do the job properly here too. Well, I'm in favour of looking at extra funding in that search, that research. But Mrs Van der Graaf also knows how that works: I have to go through a special route for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u215	Yes, I understand that, but I also note that this Minister is a step further. On 11 June 2020, we received a letter from the previous Minister of the Interior, who left that entirely open. First of all, she wanted to tighten the accountability rules for local parties, so that, in my own words, the problem of unorthodox ways of financing only comes to the surface. She left in the middle whether that problem would be solved at all. But I understand that this Minister says: we are going to follow the whole advice of the Veling Committee. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u216	No, well, that's, uh... I'm glad that Mrs. Van der Graaf is back in the sense that she really likes to see a complete performance of Veling. Here's what I want to say. When I do an extra job in a province or in a municipality or in a decentralised area, of course, we always have to do an execution test on the basis of Article 2 Financial Relationship Act. If you're going to ask them something extra for charges and disclosure, it's just gonna cost you money. So there's got to be something to that. You can ask to make more public, which will lead to costs for local political parties. I think that, if we make that choice with each other, there should be something financial about that. But the how do I have to work out, and I still have to work on the finances. So I can't say right now that I'm totally embracing it, because I don't have the conditions quite in a row yet. I do have the intention of working on it. This is perhaps a step in comparison to the June 2020 letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u217	We know that this always goes in small steps, but then I would like to ask this Minister the following. She is working on a law on political parties. Does she want to use the time when this law is being consulted to make it clear to these local parties exactly how it can be designed so that it can participate in the consultation phase? I think that means for the summer. I really hope that's possible, because then we'll know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u218	I said at the beginning that I'm doing the consultation at the end of this year. I have found that this is a much-appointed law that still has to come to the Chamber, but this is the answer as it is: at the end of this year it will be consulted. But I am well aware, also in the light of the first term of the Chamber, of the value which the Chamber attaches to this and of the impatience which is shown in a friendly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u219	Then truly finalizing, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u220	Then I would like to separate it from the consultation phase and ask the Minister whether she would like to send her ideas to the Chamber before the summer. I would therefore ask you to separate it from the consultation phase, but to inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u221	I can very well imagine that the Chamber would like to have an opinion on this before it becomes law. For the summer, I find complicated. I can promise the Chamber I'll send a letter about where we'll be at around the summer. At least I will take the issues of impact and the question of where we stand. Then the Chamber can again give its opinion on this before we go into consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u222	I might have a bit of a silly question. It's not a very difficult law. There's just some rules being made and they're being backed up. We see a lot more complicated laws coming by every day. Just to my knowledge: why has that been with the Ministry for years? What the hell could be the problem? I don't understand. It's a very simple law. You make it on a Thursday afternoon. Then the next Wednesday it goes to the Council of State. After that, he'll be in the room. It's very simple, isn't it? What's taking so long? What's going on? What don't I see that everyone smells? Or what don't I smell? What's not clear to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u223	What is Mr Bosma not clear, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u224	I am always very careful to say that to Mr Bosma, because then he comes up with a number of quotes which show that he has read at least ten books about it. The commitment from the department is also the commitment that has always been to simply give this legislation and the evaluation proper shape and now to continue with the Law on the political parties. It's just been over for a while. In that sense, I'd rather look ahead than in the rear-view mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u225	I'd like to say a few words. I haven't been a Member of Parliament for a year, but I've seen a number of stretches of law go well before I was allowed to join this Chamber. I am shorter here than Mr Bosma, but I do not always understand it either. I would like to point out that I understand and appreciate the efforts that are sometimes made in various departments. But frankly, I can't do that much with: a bill goes into consultation phase. Honesty commands me to say that it is not so much yet. The skeleton's here, but there's gonna be a lot of things. Maybe we can make it concrete with each other after all. I am also getting the feeling that we have very fundamental and complex debates here, but that a large number of issues will come back later. My question is specific: when do you think I know that this is a bit premature; but nevertheless, I would ask the Commission to send the bill to the Council of State? Then we have a calibration moment. When do you hope to deal with this bill, the law on political parties? I can do something with that. I cannot do so much with the answer that it goes into consultation in the summer, because then it could take another five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u226	The bill will be in consultation at the end of 2022. That means it's going to the Council of State at the beginning of 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u227	Mr Ellian has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u228	That's a little untapped. Minister, can we not meet now... I understand that it may be a fundamental bill. The Council of State should give you time, although I have seen that they can come up with advice very quickly if they have to. When do you want this bill discussed in the Chamber? What date of entry are you aiming at? If we do not put that point now, then it could also be two elections next. Everything we discuss here is ultimately about elections, because we participate in them, or our local departments or other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u229	This means that the entry into force is not earlier than 1 January 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u230	Now we're in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u231	That depends on whether or not the Chamber directly agrees with my proposal. That's how honest it is. I am simply looking forward to the fact that I think it is quite clear that the Chamber is at least calling on me as a minister not to allow unnecessarily much longer time to go on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u232	I started my input last week with the fact that we as a Chamber sometimes have laws that we have to coat through the Chamber with steam and boiling water, because the pressure is greatly increased on the Chamber to deal with a bill quickly. We also have laws that are actually being done for years. The legislative amendment we are talking about this time is about the review from 2018. In that the Veling Committee said: we are coming up with a few changes that can be introduced quickly, in the run-up to the Law on Political Parties. This has also taken years, while we, as the Netherlands, are truly ashamed of the way in which political parties are financed. Surveillance isn't properly arranged. In short, we are taking other countries into account, but we are simply not doing it right. In the end, we are dealing with this change of law, but the law on political parties is crucial. I don't blame this minister, because she just got here. The other minister just left it. I therefore call on this Minister to do so as soon as possible, if necessary with an urgent procedure, as we are dealing with other laws here in the Chamber. We should not wait too long to do so, because that would damage the electorate's confidence. I therefore call once again on this Minister to send the Political Parties Act to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u233	That's the apple Mrs. Arib puts on me. I can't look in the rearview mirror. I have to look forward. That's the good thing to do now. When I look at how we can do the work that we still have to do properly, I come to the following schedule: entry into force at the earliest in 2024, consultation at the end of 2022 and the Council of State at the beginning of 2023. I can't make it prettier than it is right now. That's just the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u234	I shall continue with Mr Bosma's question. What's going on here? What does it depend on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u235	If I look backwards, I think it was Remkes who proposed a law on political parties in a parliamentary committee in June 2019. I say to Mrs Arib that a deportationary cabinet is not helping either. That compound means we're standing here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u236	Are there any discussions with political parties on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u237	The question is what exactly does Mrs Arib mean? In preparing the legislation, we have, of course, consulted with the political parties, with the associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u238	That's exactly what I'm talking about, because it's about the law on political parties. I believe that political parties also have an input on this. They are, of course, also stakeholders when it comes to which law goes which way. The Ministry and the Chamber must communicate transparently and clearly about such a law. Political parties may, of course, give their views on legislation, but they must not train.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u239	No, I really want to take that away. No one's training. We just have to get on with it. The Chamber hears me say that this is the timetable, that I attach importance to moving forward and that there will just be a legislative proposal. That is what matters to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u240	Finalizing, Mrs. Arib.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u241	Finally. Could the Minister promise that she will do everything in her power to send the law to the Chamber as soon as possible and not to wait until 2024? That would really be inexplicable given the way in which the funding of political parties has been handled over the past period. I do not want to pin this on you, but I do want everything to be done to get the law to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u242	The answer is that in the planning, also because of the Court's statements in this area, the consultation went to 2022 and early 2023. For me, it is also interesting to hear at least in this debate that the Chamber attaches great importance to this. That's where my commitment comes from to give the best possible effect to the robust planning we have now put in place, so that we're going to make it to the times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u243	Mrs Leijten, on this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u244	I would like to come back to funding political parties. We've been waiting for the mythical Law on the political parties. We don't know what goes wrong there. We can imagine anything, but he's not here, especially not before 2024. It can be later if it becomes a more extensive law, all of you. There are quite a lot of people watching this bill when it comes to financing local political parties. If I have heard correctly in the first term, there is simply a majority in the Chamber who says: it must be done. The Minister asks us to wait, but does not give Mrs Van der Graaf the guarantee that it will be there. I would therefore be very sad if we dealt with this bill later and have no guarantees as to when the Political Parties Act will enter into force and we have not decided on the financing of local political parties. I would therefore ask the Minister to simply make a commitment or to state that, if the political parties want it, it will have to be of the amount that is now available. Because if she doesn't, it'll stick, and that would really be a bad outcome to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u245	I've indicated what I'm willing to do because I think it's important. I want to take a good look at an impact and realize that there must also be funding for this. I want both of them in order to be able to carry out what Mrs Van der Graaf asks. By the way, I also found Mrs Van der Graaf's analysis strong. She said: it is a step compared to June 2020. It is also a step forward in relation to the budgetary procedure, where such a proposal was adopted by a majority of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u246	I really think that's very, very low. That was voted down because the previous minister said, "I'm a missionary, so I'm not allowed to do anything. Dear Chamber, please treat this with the Finance Act political parties." So it's been pushed forward and we're not gonna let it slide again. So you can't. Veling said it costs between 7 and 10 million. I have been through debates on much more, I can say. The chairman knows all about that too. And even if we take that out of the budget of the political parties, the pain is bearable. I dare say the pain is then bearable. The SP could carry that pain, too. So I think we should get to that principle. I therefore ask the Minister to say: "There will be funding for local political parties. How? We'll decide later, but it's coming. If I can't find it in length, then we do it from width and it doesn't come from width then it comes from length." Well, you know that proverb.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u247	In order to say yes in full, I need two things. On the one hand, a well-developed proposal which I myself find feasible and, on the other hand, a decent funding which will enable me to implement it. I haven't got them in order yet, so I'm not going to make a full commitment at the moment, because I want to be able to make it happen. What I do promise is that, in the run-up to the Political Parties Act, I will investigate whether I can actually implement it and at the same time arrange the funding so that the hand can go hand-in-hand. That makes me at least at the moment detach Mrs Leijten's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u248	Rounding off, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u249	In conclusion. When the Jetten motion came before us, it could be cycled into the law by a motion. Then most political parties voted for extra funding for themselves. I hope that they will also think about funding for parties other than themselves, namely the local parties that are likely to be the largest in the municipal elections. They play an important role in our democracy and should therefore simply be covered by the Financing Act political parties, because that transparency and purity would be good for our entire democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u250	Point taken. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Have we arrived at the other topics yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u251	I have one more important element of the Political Parties Act, and that is Mrs Arib's request that I set up an independent supervisor in the Political Parties Act. Yes, I do. The intention is therefore to do so: an independent supervisor, who is therefore also in a different relationship with the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u252	That's good to hear. This also means an independent committee which has instruments to impose fines, for example, which oversees the implementation of the Financing Act political parties and which is independent of Home Affairs. Saves a second-term motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u253	This independence must also have its hands and feet so that the committee can not only observe something independently but can also do something independently, otherwise it will not be really independent. That's my intention, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u254	That reassures me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u255	I propose that we suspend for two minutes before we open the folder of other subjects, of which I cannot see the scope. I am also paying attention to the fact that some have been sitting still for almost two hours and some have been standing for two hours. Unless the Minister says, it's really just three questions. But I think it's okay to suspend for a while, because I don't know how many more interruptions are going to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u256	I think this is a good training for my sta-skills, but luckily you have it as a former military. I always think a comfort break is the best proposal there can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u257	Mrs Westerveld was also present at the Round Table on Movement Poverty, where we also received this very strong opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u258	I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u259	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna get to the other block. Among other things, Mr Van Baarle asked a question about debts. He asked how the government estimates the risk that gifts, with the limitations of this bill on gifts, will move to loans. Mr Van Baarle also asked whether I share his view that it would be a good idea to impose stricter requirements here. The Veling Committee has not found that there is reason to tighten the rules on loans and debts of political parties, and at the moment I have no indication that gifts are going to move to loans. I therefore see no reason at present to introduce further rules on debt. I therefore also advise against the amendment on item No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u260	The amendment in part No. 31 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u261	Yes. Mr Van Baarle also asked whether there has ever been a stricter version of the bill. No, there wasn't. I have sometimes asked whether it was still somewhere before it was sent to the Chamber, but as far as I have been informed, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u262	His run-in makes it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u263	Then it can only disappoint if the tension builds up like this. Mr. Chairman. On the subject of the amendment, does the Minister share the view that this route could be developed in theory? This is certainly the case because the present legislative proposal will tighten up certain transparency requirements on gifts. In the case of a loan or deferred payment, which can sometimes be a hidden form of a gift, such as: spread it out over a long term period, this limit is currently very high, at €25,000. The amendment therefore calls for this to be made more transparent, with a lower limit, so that the route, which may be there in theory, will not take place. Does the Minister agree that that route could be there in theory?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u264	There's two sides to that. I don't see that happening right now. It also depends, of course, on the maximum amount that the Chamber is going to grant. In theory, different things are possible and could happen, but I just don't have a clue right now. The Veling Committee has no indication of this either. Then I find €25,000 just a neat amount, a fine amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u265	If you compare it to gifts, €25,000 is a very high amount. There it is now at €4,500 and we are probably going to lower that. But also a loan or a deferred payment can by mutual agreement actually contain a hidden form of a gift, because you embezzle or distribute the payment. In that context, it would be a good thing if we simply asked instead of such a very high limit to make it transparent to what extent it is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u266	I think €25,000 is just a fine limit to handle. So I do not see any reason at the moment to move to a lower border. So I still dissuade the amendment from doing so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Baarle and Mr Omtzigt also asked a number of questions about GRECO's recommendations. A number of recommendations have been made at some point, but indeed some have not yet been adopted. One of GRECO's recommendations was to include bequests and successions under the rules of disclosure. That is also what we are going to do with this bill, also to set up a separate supervisor who is also independent in doing so. We want to do so in the Political Parties Act and to reduce the amount of €4,500. I have now said to the Chamber that I can well imagine that a lower amount will be chosen for this. The legislative proposal differs from what GRECO previously asked for in relation to the recommendation to ban anonymous donations, but we have also discussed this extensively with each other. Mr Van Baarle also has the amendment to item No. 36 proposed that the Financing Act should be reviewed more and more frequently by political parties. As far as the evaluation is concerned, it is now stipulated that the law will be reviewed within five years of its entry into force. Mr Van Baarle proposed that the law be reviewed for the first time within two years of its entry into force and then every three years thereafter. I say to Mr Van Baarle that it is very difficult to have a full review of the law within two years of its entry into force. I just want to make that very practical. If this law came into force on 1 January 2023, the evaluation should be completed by 1 January 2025. However, the accountability for 2023 does not have to be submitted until mid-2024, after which supervisory control and advisory by the Supervisory Finance Committee will take place political parties in the third quarter of 2024. The evaluation should be carried out as a matter of urgency in the fourth quarter and could only be taken into account for one year. So I think two years are far too short as a first evaluation period. I would therefore advise Mr Van Baarle to sit somewhere between two and five years, because two years is simply not practicable. We can do something, but it would give an incomplete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u267	I understand that very well. There's just a practical difficulty. Now I'm just looking at what would be workable. Could that be three years? Does the Minister agree that the second part of the amendment is that we should do this periodic evaluation a little more often? I think it's good to keep the finger on the wrist. So it sees on the first element. So I just have the question: is it practically feasible to do that evaluation after three years? Then I am very much prepared to amend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u268	I also see, given the discussion in the Chamber, that it is good to evaluate it in time. This simply gives the opportunity to discuss with the Chamber on time after all whether or not some of the things that live here, which I say I do not see happening, are happening or not. I can imagine we'll do a first evaluation after three years. I would then say to Mr Van Baarle that, also in view of the advent of the Law on Political Parties, in which all other laws must be incorporated, it might be good to simply point out that an evaluation should be carried out within three years. Then that law probably sails in the Law on Political Parties, so I wonder if what Mr Van Baarle is doing with "three years, three years, three years" is very practical. I'd say make it an evaluation after three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u269	The element that caused this is that, of course, at that time, I did not know when this much discussed law would come into being. We do know that now. The difficult thing is also a little bit that we can't say with certainty that that law is going to come at all. So, since that law is incorporated into the Law on Political Parties, perhaps it is good to include that periodic review in any way. We can't look into a glass ball and see exactly when the law goes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u270	No. What we do know with each other is that this law has been in force for three years after entry into force, and that we can then give a good picture. I also thought Veling's evaluation was good and very manageable. My suggestion to Mr Van Baarle would therefore be to include an evaluation after three years in the amendment, but he himself deals with his amendments. Then we can also look at the Political Parties Act to see what a good evaluation period is. I do not have very strong views on this, but I see that two years is simply not manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u271	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u272	Yeah, rounding it up. Then I will see if I can still get some technical assistance to see how we can shape it in the periodic review, but if we do it in the spirit of this approach, I understand that the Minister is giving the amendment a Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u273	If we do the first evaluation after three years, it's just judgment Chamber. I also think it is important to get that insight quickly. Especially if the Chamber is going to adopt amendments that have meaning for the scope of the law, it is also a good thing that we are also looking at each other quickly, faster than usual, how it works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u274	The amendment in part No. 36 is not recommended in the current form but will be modified by Mr Van Baarle and then it gets under another piece number that we don't know yet, probably judgment Chamber. But we'll find out in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u275	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Both Mr Bishop and Mrs Van Dijk have asked questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u276	I'm sorry, but I have an interruption on a previous point, the independent oversight. We have also asked for this, and it is good that the Minister is going to include this in the Wpp, with the possibility of sanctions. So it's all good news. In the first term, we also asked whether the Minister also sees a role for the Election Council in relation to that supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u277	Then the Election Council gets a lot of different hats on, because they are both responsible for the proper execution of the elections and they supervise a number of things. At the moment, I'm really leaning towards an independent supervisor who also doesn't have to interfere with the elections, so that you really keep it apart. The Election Council also deals with the nomination of political parties. So if you don't, there's a lot of things going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u278	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u279	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Dijk and Mr Bishop stressed the importance of the attractiveness and support of council members and political ministers. It is also really important to strengthen the position of the municipal councils but also that of the general government of provinces and water boards. In October 2021, my predecessor announced actions and measures to strengthen the position of the city council. This concerns: greater use of adequate support, more equipment and training, a good information position and a good political culture. You can also do that by making agreements with each other at the beginning as a board about how you deal with each other. One of the legislative proposals here in the Chamber is, of course, about strengthening the independence of the Court of Auditors, so that your Chamber is also better fed in the performance of the work. A good legal position of municipal council members is also important in this respect. Since 2019, we have been working on this as well. The remuneration for council members in small municipalities has also been increased. The reimbursement of expenses for all council members has also been levelled. A reimbursement of travel expenses for attending meetings has also been introduced. There are also a number of other issues. It's work all the time. I also find it very pleasant that we now have a number of ambassadors, political ministers who are active in local and decentralised government and who are also experiencing restrictions, for example because they are wheelchair-dependent. With Marleen Sanderse as Mayor and Arjan Koerts as State Member, we have two other ambassadors who are also really trying to further the attractiveness of the fine profession of councilman and political minister for people with disabilities. That's the kind of thing that matters. You see just a huge under-representation there, when you want everyone on the board, in the states and in general government to be able to participate. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma asked: what does the Minister think of a party office being defiled? I don't care which party office it belongs to, but you don't destroy anyone else's property. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my answer, except that I have one more point. Mrs Leijten originally had the amendment to item No. 18 submitted, on maximation of gifts, at €100,000. That amendment I am judging Chamber. I took a quick look at the amendment to item No. 44, which has changed a number of things. I believe that a cumulation clause has been introduced, but I have taken the view that the proposal without cumulation provision has been taken into account, I say to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u280	Just for the paperwork. The amendment in part No. 18 is the amendment to item No. Forty-four years old. What is the opinion of the Minister's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u281	The amendment in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber. In the amendment to item No. As with Mr Omtzigt, 44 is a cumulation clause, and I find it very difficult at the moment to get an idea of exactly how that works. I would therefore simply advise against this at the moment, but Mrs Leijten's first proposal was fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u282	Mrs Leijten can do what she likes with that, but the amendment in part No. 44 has been dissuaded in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u283	That is, of course, rather unfortunate, because it has always been the intention that I also extensively argued last week to do €100,000, and that is what it is. So not €100,000 to the scientific agency and to the youth organisation and to the national party, but €100,000 in one go. In order to reduce all the shortcuts, we have come to this because otherwise you can set up endlessly many secondary institutions and still set up that million, and that was not the intention. I hope that after a week the Minister will be able to come up with a different idea about her judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u284	Well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u285	Unfortunately, I have missed the start of this debate because of my work for the Committee of Inquiry, but I understand that one of my questions on maximation last week has not yet been addressed. There are now proposals on maximizing donations. You can think of what an individual, a natural person or a legal person could donate or how often a person may do so. Those are maxims. But I have also put forward a proposal that I have heard Professor Voermans do: what if you think of a maximation of the total that a party could receive in donations? Would you not respond much more to the idea of a level playing field between political parties, which also has a place in our system? Would the Minister like to reflect on that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u286	That is actually the point Mrs Leijten just made about her first amendment. There was no maximation for the total, but per institution. At this stage, I can follow it perfectly well to do it this way. A maximum for the total would in any case not be my preference at the moment, because you have to do the necessary technical work. But it is up to the Chamber to judge that. At least my preference wouldn't be. I would therefore advise against it at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u287	What I asked about last week is... I do not know for a moment either. I do not have the wisdom in rent which would then be a sensible limit. As the Veling Committee said, every border is actually arbitrary, wherever you end up putting it. Shouldn't we be looking into that? Shouldn't we put the pros and cons of that together? That is how I introduced this point last week. I did not put anything down, and I do not intend to table an amendment on this now either, let me make that quite clear, but I do think we should look at this as well. For this could be an approach that might be more appropriate to the desire for a level playing field between political parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u288	I fully understand your important work in the Committee of Inquiry. I have promised Mr Pieter Omtzigt that, in the run-up to the Law on Political Parties, I would like to look more closely at the effects of cumulative Maximisation, also in relation to the public register. To sum up, how this discussion went: Mr Pieter Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten still differ on how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u289	I would like to say, however, that the maximum amount that a political party can receive of total donations, as I understand Mrs Van der Graaf's question and as I have heard Mr Voermans say, is different from what I have tabled in the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It says that what someone can give is maximized. So that doesn't mean a hundred people can give that. The Minister also said that this is not very common, but that is what has been Maximised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u290	This has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u291	This is an appropriate point for the Chamber, so in the letter I have promised, I will repeat my position in writing so that the Chamber can discuss it with me in the course of the debate. I say it now at the end of the debate, but that is because we were given that insight. So I'm just gonna put it on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u292	I heard the Minister say that she had arrived at the end of the answer to all the questions and the appreciation of the amendments in the first period. If we have properly administered it, we still do not have an opinion on the amendments to Parts Nos. 25, 42 and 45, with all due respect to the Minister, who has responded diligently and very carefully. I do not know whether the Minister can go into that now, or whether the Chamber is asking the Minister to reply by letter, examining whether all the amendments have been appreciated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u293	The amendment in part No. Mr Ellian's 25th report deals with how foundations and associations other than secondary institutions have acquired their money. For this purpose, the proposal imposes a registration obligation through political parties on foundations and associations that make a donation to political parties of more than €1,000 per year. A foundation or association can only fulfil this obligation by registering and providing to it all donations of more than €1,000, regardless of whether there is a relationship between the donation of the donor to the association and the donation of the association to the political party. That is actually the conversation I had with Mr Ellian and Mrs Leijten earlier on about the administration of political parties other than the political parties. The same reasoning applies: I do not think that this is in line with the system of the Financing Act, which addresses political parties, their secondary institutions and individual candidates of the political parties, and not so much the donors. Then you will actually come back to the exchange of views we had earlier in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u294	So the amendment in part No. 25 is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u295	Yeah, that's the final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u296	Now I had hoped that the Minister would give a different opinion, but this was in line with expectations. With your permission, Mr President, I would like to ask one more question about this, because we need to make a proper assessment. I think I have 25 amendments and this is quite essential for my group. Can the Minister explain one more time? She has addressed the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. The Minister once again says that my proposal, although other colleagues have made similar proposals, does not fit in with the system. It could be me. That's why I'm just gonna ask you just to be safe, and then we can go home. Take the Wwft. I was an attorney and was supposed to conduct enhanced client investigation in some cases. That's an obligation that rests on me as an attorney and that comes from that law. But of course there is also an obligation on those who wanted to become my client to provide certain information. That is an indirect obligation, a derivative obligation. If they didn't want to, then I was obliged to say: I can't assist you, I turn on the blanket or there will be another action. So I don't get it. I understand the example of Greenpeace very well, although I was just reminded that this may not be a very realistic example. The same goes for Natural Monuments. Do you at least see the resemblance to a law like the Wwft, so it can be fine that a law we are dealing with today imposes derivative obligations on third parties? That's not crazy in itself, because in this house, we deal with laws more often. If you were to say "Room members may only eat apples from the Appie," that indirectly imposes an obligation on the Appie that they sell apples to us, otherwise we will never be able to eat those apples and then we will never be able to comply with the law. You insist on this system, but do you understand that derivative obligations are also possible? Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u297	I also told Mrs Leijten that I simply chose another approach by choosing Article 20 of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, where the responsibility lies there. It's another approach route. I have outlined a number of objections. I see that there are different thoughts about that living in this Chamber. The other amendment is that in part No. 42. That was first no. 15. That is Mrs Leijten's amendment, on which I also sent a letter earlier in relation to the prompt and immediate publication. In my opinion, this led to an interesting discussion in the first term on'soon' and 'unfortunate'. I thought, "Here are some real lawyers in the Chamber." I support the idea behind the amendment of making it public as soon as possible, but I have already written that in the letter. The difference lies in the fact that this bill has chosen to publish €50,000 at an early date and that Mrs Leijten does so at €4,500. I think that is a considerable reduction. I can also see that €50,000 is arbitrary, but I would also find €30,000 perfectly feasible. Furthermore, I would opt for a few days, because otherwise parties will really interpret differently what is immediate and what is fast. Then you see that those who want to do it well run badly to do it quickly and that the others say: ten days is also immediate. So I would really like to see a specific deadline in that proposal. Our experience is that parties, especially in election periods, often find it quite a challenge to reach fourteen days. Mr President, I therefore agree with the intention. I would like to make a comment on the low amount of disclosure. And I make the suggestion that it should be changed without delay, because that is also multi-interpretable. I found the discussion with the MP of the VVD somewhat insightful on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u298	Of course, we've seen a great giver who made himself public. The question is whether the party had done so at all. And we have another party that explicitly didn't do that because it said that it will only be visible next year. We've learned that in a different way. I don't think that's a trustworthy thing to do. The moment you're a political party, you're in the election, you're in the heat of the election battle and you get a big gift, you just call it in. Indefinitely, as soon as possible! So we'll do two days? If the minister sits down on days, I'd say two days, two working days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u299	I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. That is why the law also contains the proposal that it should be published in practice within a period of time. That's different than we had in the previous law. So we're gonna take that step together. I wonder if two days is feasible. I really wonder if that moment has been carefully laid down. In addition, I would like to add that we think it is important to simply set a deadline that parties can reach. The intention that this should now become public is an important step. And it's also put up with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u300	You know, Mr. Chairman, that's just the way it goes. Then a party says: it's two weeks before the election; now you can transfer it, because then we don't have to make it public until that election. You already know four weeks before you get it, so you can start buying commercials. You may then be in a bit of a bad mood, which was just the subject of the discussion with Mr Van Baarle. You can presort on it already and then it's not visible before the elections. I'm sorry, but that's what we've seen lately. It's just about "unrelenting." As a political party, you know damn well that you get something that you can deal with right away in the election. That is really no secret, for no political party here in the Chamber, new, small, old, big; whatever. So that's what it's all about. The Minister also knows damn well that at the time you say "two weeks," it takes a walk. With "as soon as possible" a supervisor can get out of his way. It may interpret that as "within 48 hours" or it may be a few days longer if there is a weekend or public holidays in between, if he can see that the sharpest part of the cut has been done and it has been kept out of sight of the elections. A supervisor can just do that, especially if he's gonna be independent and can be a little sharper than Home Affairs may have been in the past. We agree, but say "the sharpest term" if you want it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u301	If we opt for "without delay" or "as soon as possible" and all the nuances that are in it, we may also find ourselves in the situation that we are working on for two years before everyone has figured out what it really is. That's why an explicit term is just really my preference. I can even reconsider what a more realistic period is than fourteen days, but we have really looked at that and I have already asked for it a few times. But I can come back to that point in the letter. Then Mrs Leijten can weigh whether or not she thinks that is enough. The downside of "unfortunately" is that we will really get interpretation discussions in the first period. We're losing time with that, too. That's my objection. I also want to make realistic implementation possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u302	It's gonna come back in a letter. Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u303	If I transfer you a tenner on my cell phone now, you'll have it right now. That's what's happening these days. It's no longer waiting for it to be overwritten. It's like we're making a bill for donations for the period before digitisation. This is useful for political parties, it is useful for bureaucracy, but it does not work that way in real life. I'm really calling on the Minister to look at it that way. You know that if you put down "two weeks," there will be parties far from taking all parties who take those two weeks as safe shelter not to report that they have received a fine amount, full in election time, while that affects the elections. We all know that this plays a major role, including in fundraising. So my appeal to the Minister is: don't be naive. Don't think we're still alive in time for the computer or in the time of the fax. It's all real time. Assume a supervisor who can impose good standards and who can use them. And stealing about how long is "without delay": the spirit of the law is that you just make it public when you get it, period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u304	The point is indeed clear. The Minister will return to it in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u305	Oh, yeah. I will also state that we do not differ in intent. I think it's important to say that we're going to make this public. I'm gonna look at the deadline. It is still important to point out that I find the gap between €4,500 and €50,000 that is now in the law, just really big. I would ask Mrs Leijten to take a good look at that amount, because there is still too big a hole there. Mr. Chairman. The last amendment, in my view, is the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u306	In part No. 45.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u307	Yes, that was the amendment in part No. 33. That was about the discussion: whether or not to ban gifts from non-natural persons. We have had an extensive discussion about this. I want to keep it both open for my magical reasons. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u308	The amendment in part No. 45 has been dissuaded. During this debate there have been sub-amendments tabled by Mrs Teunissen, namely on the documents Nos. 50, 51 and 52. I am looking at Mrs Teunissen, but I can imagine that we would ask the Minister to respond in writing for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u309	I have tabled these amendments as a result of the first deadline, so I would very much appreciate a written response. Then we can look at it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u310	I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u311	Mr. Chairman. It's about the disclosure of heirlooms, isn't it? I'm gonna go check it out. This requires care. I'm gonna take five minutes to add the article of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u312	I would suggest that we do so in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u313	I understand Mrs Teunissen, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u314	I think she's okay with us taking this off in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u315	Then I did not express myself clearly enough, but I did ask for a written response. Then we can come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u316	I heard above all 'the importance of', so I thought: then I would try to meet Mrs Teunissen directly. But then we'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-tweedekamer-16.u317	We appreciate that, thank you very much. That is the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and her support. I thank all the Members of Parliament present and their support, the people who have followed this debate in the public gallery, those who are no longer present, but they were earlier this evening and all the people at home. Thank you very much for all your support in the Chamber.
