ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on current developments in Ukraine. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. I would like to meet with Members of Parliament: up to four questions or comments to each other and six to the cabinet. There are quite a lot of speakers. So we're gonna lead that in the right direction. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21 for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak first. I have to get used to that, because I usually dangle at the bottom of the list of speakers. On 7 November 1989, the Lubbers III cabinet took office. Two days later, on 9 November, the Berlin Wall fell. That coalition agreement was a kind of law of Meden and Persians: inviolably boarded up. Thereupon a political guerrilla emerged to shift every comma in order to shift money flows. Every minister with plans waved with the mythical peace dividend. The money was taken from the Defense Department, which was worn to the bone. Anno 2022 we are in a similar situation, but in the opposite direction. The Rutte IV cabinet has just taken office. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is drawing a line through the bill. The financial framework of the coalition agreement is completely obsolete. It has to go back to the drawing board, as the Minister said. In any case, Defense will be restored. The CPB expects purchasing power to fall by 3%. This is the first time in over 40 years; that was after the second oil crisis and that was a hard blow. This is another big blow. For example, VAT and excise duties can be reduced to cover this. The petrol price is at €2.50 today. My question is how the government intends at least to maintain purchasing power. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate recently said that he no longer wanted to hear the words "unfeasible" and "unaffordable." He found that difficult words, but the era of free money is over. These are the words that are essential. The coalition agreement must be broken open and taboos must be thrown overboard. For example, what are taboos? Can we afford a €25 billion nitrogen fund? Former PvdA executive Ronald Plasterk recently wrote in De Telegraaf that 25 million is enough; that is just a thought. The 35 billion climate fund needs to be re-examined. The key question here is: what is feasible and what is affordable? Food prices are rising, too. The Dutch agricultural sector is one of the most productive and sustainable in the world and is an example; we must be careful. Mr. Chairman. We do not know how long this terrible war in Ukraine will last. There are apparently negotiations between the two parties in Belarus, in Belarus. My question to the Minister is whether he can tell us what the status of these discussions is and whether there is a prospect of an agreement, albeit partial. It is very important that we get to a negotiating stage, because every day there is a fight there and all these terrible things are not to be seen. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a geopolitical note. China and Russia concluded a 30-year agreement on the supply of gas and oil to China on 3 February. Chinese leaders have characteristics that the Russians lack: they have patience and aim to operate tactically. China assures itself of energy supply that will make it the world's number one in about 15 years. That is going to be the next challenge for us, or maybe it is. Mr. Chairman. At the moment many beacons are being moved, if not all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks of the terrible war in Ukraine is now taking place. Putin operates mercilessly and doesn't hesitate to do anything. He's even bombing a children's hospital. Nuclear power stations are also being shot at. It's dangerous. The number of victims and refugees is increasing rapidly. As a statement against the war, we organized a demonstration against the war on Saturday, including with the Party for the Animals. We had Ina from Ukraine and Svetlana from Russia on stage. They said, the harder Putin attacks, the stronger we hold each other. That was incredibly powerful and strengthens the fact that this is not a war of the Russian people, but of Putin. As always in a war, the elite will take care of his business. The people are allowed to bleed. All efforts must therefore be made to bring this madness to an end quickly. This afternoon there were negotiations in Turkey between the foreign ministers of Ukraine and Russia. The media said there wasn't much coming out of it. My question is: are there any new conversations planned? Are there any leads pointing towards a cease-fire? What contribution can the international community, the United Nations, make to facilitate this process? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There are strong sanctions against the Russian elite, and that's good. Hopefully it increases the pressure on the Kremlin. At the same time, we see that those Russian oligarchs find shortcuts to escape those sanctions. See, for example, Nieuwsuur yesterday. The elite regulates a European passport for themselves and then escapes the measures. What is there to do about this? What about the Zuidas approach? As far as we're concerned, you're getting the green light to go hard on the Russian elite. Take their mailbox companies, but also their real estate and their yachts. Place refugees in their villas and transform the Zuidas into a social community. Our blessing has come to you. Mr. Chairman. Sanctions are good, but compliance is at least as important. We note that there is no capacity to comply with these sanctions. Can the government say a little more about that? Is it perhaps an idea to set up a special team that is now really going to focus on compliance with those sanctions, so that those oligarchs are really being dealt with? Mr. Chairman. Support for Ukraine is very important. We must be careful that our aid does not lead to escalation. A direct confrontation between NATO and Russia can be fatal. That is why we are not in favour of direct military interference, for example through a no-fly zone. Does the government share that opinion? Arms deliveries from the Netherlands will now be reported confidentially, says the Minister of Defence. That is worrying, because Parliament cannot talk about it. How can we monitor this, including an open debate? Mr. Chairman. Then about the consequences of the war for the Netherlands. We are seeing huge price increases, such as gas and oil. Low incomes in particular are the victims. That is why we say: compensate and abolish the energy tax. With regard to refugees, we see an enormous consensus. Eight out of ten Dutch people support a generous shelter; very good. It is probably going to take a long time, so it is important to ensure sustainable care, not only in the poor neighbourhoods, but also in the rich neighbourhoods. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is a constant struggle between anger at seeing the terrible images, such as the destruction of a children's hospital, and the need to rationally weigh all options so that we do not contribute to further escalation. It is clear that the West stands as one block behind Ukraine. The financial and economic sanctions show that we strongly condemn the invasion. Ukraine is defending itself heroically against Russian aggression. The sending of extra military goods therefore has the support of my group. But what can we offer humanitarian aid to Ukrainians in besieged cities? The fact that Dutch people are very involved with the Ukrainian people is also reflected in the heartwarming initiatives to help refugees and in the Giro555 action. People are also concerned about the threats and consequences of this war. Russia is described as a gas station with nuclear weapons, manned by an unpredictable dictator in the Kremlin. How does the cabinet view the risks posed by the Russian use of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons? And what about the safety of nuclear power plants in Ukraine? As far as the PvdA is concerned, it is important that we get off the Russian infusion as soon as possible. The option of a boycott is on the table for us. Can the Cabinet explain how discussions on this matter are taking place within the EU and how the possible consequences can be met? Putin will do everything in his power to convince Western societies that a harsh condemnation of the invasion is not worth the effort, that the costs are too high. It is therefore important for the government to act quickly to mitigate negative effects for those who are already struggling to make ends meet, with an emergency package for purchasing power and targeted compensation. Mr. Chairman. The Ukrainian President has made several requests to the West to establish a no-fly zone. According to the Labour Party, this could lead to an enormous escalation, but there is plenty of speculation about it. Can the Minister explain her considerations? Zelensky is asking for EU membership. Prime Minister Rutte seemed to want to go along with this earlier, but immediately came back to this. How could such a painful misunderstanding arise? And then delivering fighter planes. What is the state of play and what is the situation with regard to the humanitarian corridors? I'd like a response. It is also embarrassing that after all the big words, the British leave it to Ukrainian refugees to issue visas. Did the Prime Minister discuss this with Boris Johnson? Mr. Chairman. It gives a slight glimmer of hope that the Russians are now prepared to speak at political level with the Ukrainian Government, although the meeting this morning in Antalya did not produce anything. What possibilities does the Minister see for a follow-up? Is it true that Putin has abandoned his demand for a regime change in Kiev? Mr. Chairman. The war is painfully exposing the great intertwinedness with Russia, whether it concerns oil and gas or corrupt money flows. The years of dread must now make way for boldness. This includes solidarity, within the Netherlands, with those who feel the hardest of the consequences, but also at European level with those countries that are most vulnerable. Moldova, the poorest country in Europe, currently captures most refugees per capita. And then I haven't even talked about the geopolitical consequences this war could have for the country. Is the Cabinet prepared to provide bilateral financial support to the government in Chisinau? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that it gives an uncomfortable feeling that the debate on our late former staff in Afghanistan has been postponed again, but hopefully we will be able to discuss this with the cabinet in the very near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u8	Exactly two weeks ago, Russia invaded Ukraine. Fortunately, Putin is not gaining ground as quickly as he had hoped, but the war crimes that Russia is committing are becoming increasingly horrible. Yesterday, Russia bombed a children's hospital: the lowest of the lowest. Russia is shooting down humanitarian corridors. Cities are surrounded. The misery for ordinary Ukrainians is getting worse and worse. Today there was a high-level diplomatic dialogue in Turkey. As expected, there was no result yet. We see calls from Macron and Scholz to an overall cease-fire. Unfortunately, that seems unfeasible. Is it perhaps an intermediate step to argue for safe zones in Ukraine? Areas from which Russia undertakes not to bomb, where humanitarian aid can be provided, where Ukrainians can stay who do not want to flee abroad and whose West in turn promises not to supply weapons. Humanitarian corridors can then lead to these safe zones. Is this an intermediate step that the cabinet would like to work out and discuss with our allies? Furthermore, like many others, I am concerned about the nuclear power plants in Ukraine. The International Atomic Energy Agency has lost sight of security. Can we at least urge Russia to return to sharing the necessary data and information? Then defence: we must continue to support Ukraine to defend itself. Ukraine, in particular, says it needs more weapons for anti-aircraft defence. Are we able to continue to support this? Can a leading group of countries take the initiative and coordinate? This also applies, for example, to fuel and ammunition. Over the last few days, I have been disturbed by the messy discussion between the US and Poland about the fighter jets for Ukraine. That was the case at first, then again not, then again it was and eventually it wasn't. This shows weakness and division, and that is exactly what we do not want. Will the Netherlands urge allies that this should not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u9	I saw that cheerful knowledge of you about the delivery of Polish MiGs to Ukraine four days ago. I wonder if, in addition to the war of sanctions, you would like to mess us into a third world war? That's a dangerous action, isn't it? The Russians will never let that go unpunished.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u10	There was talk that that would happen. I wasn't an opponent of that in myself. I would have supported it if that had happened, because I think that is what I said earlier about arms supplies, too, and that we should help Ukraine to defend itself. Then I find it strange to say that you want to give certain types of weapons and not other types. I support the idea that a construction was built for this purpose. That's why I sent that tweet. In the end, it does not happen, arguing by the United States that it could possibly provoke Russia. We see that everything can possibly provoke Russia at the moment, because Russia is conducting its own narrative and propaganda war, with reality being completely distorted all the time. So I think that is an unfortunate outcome. What I like is that it has been said: we must do what is most effective. So Ukraine's anti-aircraft defence may also be supported in other ways and with other weapons. I am in favour of further supporting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u11	I must tell you that I find Mr Brekelmans' hubris when it comes to further military efforts an unfortunate outcome. This is reinforced by his statements on Russian nuclear weapons. I read that he said: I am not afraid of that at all, because Russian generals will prevent Putin from pressing the button, and those nuclear weapons will also be deployed. That's an assumption! You can't make that plausible in any way. I think it is much better to just pay close attention to what is being said by Putin and his people, and to take that as a starting point for your reasonings. How do you feel about that, Mr. Brekelmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u12	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mr. De Roon. Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u13	I did not say that we can rule out anything in advance from what Putin is doing. We've seen that he's capable of extreme actions. I have been hearing people around me lately saying: I am afraid that Russia may be using a nuclear weapon against Western Europe. There are 12-year-olds who can't sleep at night and lie awake because they're afraid there's gonna be a war. I said, "I don't think we have to be afraid of that." The fact that Russia has been threatening to escalate to nuclear level in a few days during a war is an act of desperation. I don't take that seriously. I have tried to point out that this should not intimidate us and scare us, but, of course, we must take any Russian military threat seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr. De Roon. No? Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21, and then to Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u15	I read an interview with the honourable Member last week. He said: if Russia wants to use nuclear weapons, if Putin wants to do so, then there are always some generals among them who are going to prevent it. I will tell you that there is nothing between Putin's order to deploy nuclear weapons and their deployment. That has become Russia's military and nuclear doctrine. In America, there's something in between. If the president does not know what to do and gives strange orders, then the general staff can say: we do not; we are faithful to the constitution. In Russia one must be faithful to the person and that is a dictator and you have no choice. So it would be good if you thought about it better before you start saying these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u16	I'd also like to go through the chairman again, Mr. Eppink. Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr Eppink pretends to know exactly what is going on. I have read countless analysts who have more expertise and knowledge about this than Mr Eppink. They say, in the end, it is Putin who takes the decision, but Putin is not the one on the Kremlin who actually holds the nuclear weapons. There are a number of levels in between before they can actually be activated. At the military level, the highest general and a few levels between them will have to implement that decision. That can be denied. There may be interlayers that say, "We're not going to execute that order." Perhaps that is not what the Constitution says, but it is, of course, in practice. The idea that Putin has a button on his desk that uses a nuclear weapon is a ridicule of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u18	What you say is the theory, but not the practice. That is at the heart of Russia's rule. That's one person. We all know that now. There is no one from the general staff who has said: we are not going to invade Ukraine when he says so. I think we should be there precisely, because the threat is great and we cannot afford the miscalculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u19	I notice that Mr Eppink is already nuanced in his statements. I believe that the invasion of another country is something other than the deployment of a nuclear weapon on the West. It is true, as Mr Eppink says, that power is concentrated around Putin and that he is making military decisions, but I have said in response that if Putin becomes completely mentally ill and makes completely irrational decisions about a nuclear weapon, generals are among those who cannot carry out such a decision, and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u20	I just want to get back to those fighters. I fully understand Ukraine's call for support in all possible ways, but when Poland proposed a construction to the United States of America to exchange fighter jets, just to put it bluntly, to help Ukraine, the United States said: we are not going to do that, we find that too dangerous and then we come into too much contact with Russia. Now do I understand that the VVD thinks that deal should have been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u21	I'm not saying that that deal should have been made. There's an argument why he didn't go through with it. There were several signals. There were times when it seemed like Poland wanted it and the United States didn't and vice versa. There were times when Poland said it didn't want to, and the United States said it was talking about it. When we use the logic of using defensive weapons, which are clearly not intended to attack Russia, that it may provoke Russia and that we do not do so, it is very difficult to determine exactly where the border lies. Putin and Russia are taking everything to say that they are being provoked and intimidated. So I think that is an unfortunate argument. I don't think we can handle that very well. The second argument was that this is not the most effective way to defend Ukraine and that other air defence systems and weapons can be used for that. I think that's a much better argument. Anyway, it's been decided not to. So I am not saying that this should be done now, but I said that I would have supported it if the United States, Poland or other NATO Member States had decided to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u22	Another proposal by Mr Brekelmans was just to look at safe zones in Ukraine. Can he explain that? Does he mean that there is also a no-fly zone in part or entirely? If not, how does he intend to protect those safe zones? To what extent do military forces need to be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u23	Thank you to Mr Van Dijk for asking this question, because I would have liked to have explained it, but I did not have enough time to do so. As far as I am concerned, we have seen this in other countries too. So it is not the case that we, or anyone else, can force that with air defense. I see that the diplomatic debate is now making rather extreme proposals, such as a general ceasefire. I see that there is a negative response to this. At the same time, I also see that it is not now possible for people to find a safe place in Ukraine, because the whole country may be bombed and even humanitarian corridors are being shot at. So my question is: could this be an intermediate step that Ukraine and Russia should finally meet together, possibly with a mediator? In any case, that is something that these two parties should bring about and not something that is enforced by Western or other parties. Because then we are directly involved and we do not want to be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u25	I was still with the D.O.D. I am pleased that the cabinet is making a greater contribution to the defence of the eastern border of NATO, both with military presence and with serious material, such as Patriots and JSFs. We also discussed in detail in the previous debate what more is needed within NATO. NATO has made several calls for this in recent days. The AIV has also said something about this. This shows once again that it is urgent that we look carefully at what is needed. In the meantime, I'm still worried about cyber. We see that anonymous hacker groups have now attacked Russia. There is a great risk that Russia will return to that area. My question to the Minister is whether our National Cyber Security Centre is prepared for a crisis situation. Is there a crisis team ready to bring together and share relevant information? If not, is the Minister prepared to set up such a crisis team as a precaution? Then I'll go to the sanctions soon. We see that these have major effects on the Russian economy. The question to the cabinet is: does the Netherlands think this is enough? I would say that we must maintain sanctions strictly and continue to increase the pressure. I have three suggestions for that. First of all, all around oil. Unfortunately, an overall boycott does not seem possible, but can we introduce a ban on the export of technology to Russia in the field of oil extraction? And can we agree with as many countries as possible to reduce annual oil imports and possibly impose secondary sanctions on countries that do not participate in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u26	I was wondering if Mr Brekelmans has finished his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u27	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u28	I was thinking, what a strange interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u29	Second. Can we stop all ongoing economic projects with Russia? In the previous debate, the Minister indicated that he would look into this. My question is whether anything has come out of this. For example, it seems that there are 86 Horizon 2020 projects still in progress with Russia. Will the Minister plead for these ongoing projects to be stopped? Third. Canada has withdrawn from the World Trade Organisation the so-called Most Favored Nation Status, which makes it possible to impose import tariffs on Russian products. The EU still has doubts about this. Is the Minister prepared to insist on this? Finally. We hear Russia accuses Ukraine of developing biological weapons. This could be a false flag of Russia to deploy biological weapons itself. That would be a terrible escalation. Would the Cabinet urge that a subsequent sanction or penalty package be prepared in advance, to discourage Russia from bringing about such a horrible escalation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u30	I have another question about the fighter jets that Poland wanted to deliver. I share Mr Brekelmans' analysis. I think we're on the same page here. But I was surprised, because the European Union, the NATO Member States and also the United States have now delivered billions of weapons to Ukraine. Part of it can be said that they are between defensive and offensive; we have already had that discussion, so we do not need to have it again. But why do you think the United States doesn't want to deliver those fighter jets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u31	They indicate that, firstly, they do not find this the most effective way of defending Ukraine and, secondly, it is such a heavy instrument that it could possibly provoke Russia. That's what came out about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u32	Then my follow-up question is: do you think that valid arguments, given what has now been delivered here to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u33	The first argument is for sure, because I think you just need to see which weapons are the most effective. The second is complicated, because Russia can seize any supply of weapons to say: we are being provoked. That's what they're doing now. They say that what has now been delivered would already be a threat to Russia. Well, I find that ridiculous when you look at the amount of weapons and the heaviness of the weapons Russia is using. This is in no way proportionate to what the West has delivered to Ukraine. A few fighter jets wouldn't have made the difference. That wouldn't suddenly be a huge threat to Russia. So with that second argument, I'm less content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u34	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many have already said it. It is really terrible that we have been seeing war crimes in Europe for two weeks in 2022. Attacks at children's hospitals, at nuclear power stations, but also at condominiums. We see armored cars and tanks crashing passenger cars. Horrible images. I was allowed to receive the calls from Giro 555 Monday night. Many older Dutch people who have active memories of the war, experience them all again. It is heartwarming to see that the Netherlands is united, generous in gifts, wants to receive refugees, but also that the West is united in harsh sanctions, unprecedentedly harsh sanctions. We welcome that. At the same time, we do not see enough movement in diplomatic efforts. Antalya today: failed. Also, the telephone call between Macron, Scholz and Putin seems to have yielded nothing. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it looks at the next diplomatic steps. I would also like to ask the question: if there is to be movement and perhaps there will be a good agreement on humanitarian corridors, which will be under surveillance, safe zones, then I think it would be a rather far-reaching step. Russia has indicated that it is leaving the Council of Europe. The OSCE is still a platform in which they are present and also the UN, but that too is becoming complicated. Are there any discussions or ideas on which third countries with capacity might be prepared to secure humanitarian corridors, not with military, but with observers? Are there any options for that? Diplomatic efforts are needed, but this naturally requires willingness on both sides. Putin must be prepared to do so under pressure. That is why sanctions are crucial. That was also discussed this morning in the debate on the Ecofin Council. The Minister for Finance has said that the Netherlands wants to go even further. It is very good that it is proactively working on a national legislative path to tackle the trust sector if it fails to reach agreement on this very quickly in Europe. My group is very pleased with that. At the same time, as the Netherlands, we can do a lot, because we have a great deal of responsibility. I hope that the cabinet gives that a great deal of priority. On the other hand, there are economic sanctions that the US and the United Kingdom have already called for when it comes to their own imports of fossil fuels from Russia. Now we understand very well that this cannot be done as a European Union. Energy dependence is too high, especially in those countries that are more in eastern Europe. But the Netherlands can and must do more in our view. We can, however, refrain from importing Russian gas and ensure that buyers of gas have the opportunity and have the responsibility to refrain from imports. Is the Cabinet prepared to take steps in that? Energy savings and renewable energy are all good steps. As far as we are concerned, they should have been put forward much earlier, but we do not need to talk about it now. I am curious whether there is a willingness on the economic side of the Netherlands to take a step, and to do so in conjunction with the European Union, where each country is given the opportunity to take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u36	I note that Mr Van der Lee speaks in line with his predecessor, Jesse Klaver. Let me quote his tweet, because that's important. Jesse Klaver wrote: "I call on the cabinet: boycott Russian gas immediately. It won't be easy, it'll hurt." Then my question to Mr Van der Lee or GroenLinks has already calculated how many euros that will cost for Dutch households. How much more are they going to pay for the Russian gas? Did you make a reasonable assessment of that? Because if you're not, then you're like GroenLinks reckless. Then you send the inhabitants of the Netherlands on a kind of financial ravine. That would even mean that you don't care so much about the consequences for Dutch households.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u37	Look, the Netherlands has the lucky position that it has a gas roundabout and the Title Transfer Facility. The latter is the virtual place where gas is traded. The Netherlands imports gas from Norway from our own fields. Fortunately this happens less and less from Groningen, but we also have many small fields. We also have LNG terminals. Other countries still have to build them, but we already have them. We have the opportunity to refrain from Russian gas. Because the prices are so high, my group chairman made a plea last Tuesday to debate them extensively next week. The Chamber supported that. For we too believe that the people with the lowest and middle incomes should be compensated for the impact of this war. However, there is still a step ahead of that. That's that you need to use those economic leverages. Last Monday, the Prime Minister was right to say that freedom has a price. We all pay that price now, but we need to soften that price and take it away for the people who really can't carry it. That's what GroenLinks stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u38	Mr President, I have a question for you. If I draw a conclusion now, does that count as an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u39	Yes. An interruption is a question or a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u40	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u41	I don't count this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u42	Finally, I would like to ask a question about Moldova. This is potentially in a situation similar to Ukraine, because there is also a renegade republic, Transnistria. Not known to everyone, but it's real. You can see by the way the Russians are moving on the south side of Ukraine, that they are moving towards the Moldovan border and Transnistria. Apart from the fact that Moldova is poor and receives a lot of refugees, there is also a serious and real threat. That is why I am happy to support Mr Piri's questions. How are the Netherlands and the EU able to support Moldova in the reception of refugees, but also in the real threat that is increasingly close to them? I see my time is up, but I just wanted to say one more sentence, if you'll allow me. It's about Ukraine's accession to the EU. I note that Parliament in Lithuania has unanimously declared today that it must do so. I also note that Serbia, which has this status, is party to an irrational dictator committing violence in Ukraine. When it comes to Ukraine, however, we do believe that the accession procedure should be started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. He was 11, this Ukrainian boy who came to the Slovak border. He had a plastic bag in his hand, a passport in his pocket, and a phone number was written on his hand. He managed to escape the war on his own, a war where Russia bombs maternity clinics, deliberately attacks refugees and commits war crimes. As Mr Van Mierlo once said: war is not one tragedy of millions, war is millions of times the drama of one. What is needed now is to oppose Russia, help Ukraine and achieve breakthroughs in the area of European cooperation. First of all, we must oppose Russia and get the Russian people on our side. Previous speakers have also said it. Diplomaticly, there is no progress, violence continues, while a broad ceasefire and a diplomatic solution is the only way out. I would like to ask the cabinet the fundamental question of whether we can at all assume that there are agreements to be made with Putin. Or did we pass that station? Last Monday, China called Russia its main strategic partner and seems to be acting as a silent accomplice to this violence. To what extent is China being forced to participate in the sanctions imposed? To what extent does the government see opportunities to pry China loose? I ask the latter because Russia, as well as China, openly speculates on whether or not existing biological weapons production sites on Ukrainian territory. To be quite honest, that sounds like a false context for the use of Russian biological or chemical weapons, and we must avoid that at all times. I would also ask for an assessment from the cabinet. I also ask how things are going with the approach of the Putin cabal. I'm asking how it goes with adding corruption to the Magnitsky Act. I'm asking how we're doing with setting up the sanctioning unit. I'm asking how it's going to be with the closing of mailbox companies on the Zuidas. I ask what additional sanctions we support. And I ask how we can support the Russian population abroad and the Russian free media. Following on, I would also like to ask about the security of the European continent. What can the Minister of Defence tell us about the security of the European continent and the strengthening of the eastern flank? How does it estimate Putin's nuclear escalation potential? And what precautions does the cabinet take? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second point. That's supporting Ukraine. We must do everything we can to provide Ukraine with financial, military and humanitarian support. Previous speakers have also said that the humanitarian corridors are not only getting under way slowly, but that Russia is also cynically using them to directly attack refugees. The question therefore arises, very urgently and very urgently, how the European Union can contribute to the creation of places where refugees in Ukraine can be free. I'd like a response from the cabinet. I also agree with Mr Van der Lee who said that we should offer perspective to the Ukrainian people. That is the prospect of a free and democratic country. We certainly should not block Ukraine from becoming a candidate country of the European Union. At the same time, it is important that we stick to the Copenhagen criteria. That's what I'd like to say. This is not just the case with Ukraine. This applies to all candidate countries. Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands is next to Ukraine and we are willing to do a lot. Sanctions, even if they hurt ourselves. A safe house for a fleeing people, even though we have a housing shortage. More than 100 million to Giro555, even though some people have it pretty tight. We show that the Netherlands can do this. But I think it's asking for more. It calls for breakthroughs. I therefore ask the Minister of Defence whether the Strategic Compass should not be more ambitious. I ask what we are going to do to accelerate European cooperation there, especially in view of the fact that Russia is pressing us to the ground: we have until the next American elections. I ask for this energy dependency, which we have been advocating for more than ten years and which has sometimes even been laughed away in this house. When will we receive a response from the Minister for Climate Change to the Commission's plans? And I ask the Foreign Minister if he will again insist on abolishing the veto and corruption under the Magnitsky Act and on setting up a European Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u45	I have a number of questions for Mr Sjoerdsma. First of all, he says we need to get the Russian people on our side. Of course, that's very good. We tabled a motion last time that sanctions should not be imposed on the Russian people, but now it appears that these sanctions are affecting the Russian people enormously. Even in the Netherlands, we see all kinds of discrimination against Russians who really have nothing to do with it. I am curious to see how Mr Sjoerdsma looks at this. It's totally counterproductive, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u46	Like Mr Van Haga, I have indeed seen these events. Here in the Netherlands there was a Russian landlord who was actually told by her landlord: leave. But there were also concerts where Russian conductors, who are not related to Putin in themselves and who do not adhere to Putin, were said: do not act anymore. I think that's the wrong way. Of course, we need to focus on those who are actually supporters of the regime and who also spread propaganda around the world. But the ordinary Russian, to which Mr Van Haga refers, we must keep by our side, whether it is a farmer, an artist, a journalist or a scientist. We'll have to do anything for that. That is also one of the important questions I have. I see what Mr Van Haga rightly points out. We will have to put a narrative against the departure of companies and the closure of the economy, so that the ordinary Russian at least understands what is happening. If you live in Russia and only listen to what Putin says, then you think: what happens to us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u47	I conclude that we agree in principle, but I do not think the ordinary Russian understands at all that he is now discriminated against and sanctioned. Anyway, I only have four interruptions, so I'm gonna move on to my next question. Look, Mr Sjoerdsma is also talking about Ukraine's military support. D66 has always been against a strong Dutch army. D66 has always voted against meeting the NATO standard of 2% of GDP. It's a bit of the broken rifle. Now D66 is turned luckily. My question is: if there had been no war in Ukraine, would D66 have made this turn or were you still in favour of a weak Dutch military force on which there could be cuts on the coast and too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u48	The debate was not meant to be like that, but I think I should take Mr Van Haga for a little history tour. There have been incredibly long cuts on the Dutch armed forces by various parties, but the crack of austerity towards investing in the armed forces was deployed in 2013. It has been deployed thanks to the good work of the SGP, the Christian Union and D66. The next cabinet, which also included D66, provided a significant investment in Defense. This cabinet also makes another significant investment in Defense. So I do not know very well where Mr Van Haga gets that picture. Here's what I can imagine. There are parties who have said recently that we should not do this European cooperation. That's what we need to talk about, because we definitely have to. We only have until the next American presidential election to make sure that we have our own business in order, that we can protect our own borders and that we can secure our own territory from the hostility we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u49	That's very interesting. Perhaps I should take Mr Sjoerdsma on a tour through the various departments of the Dutch Defence Department. Then we see how deplorable the Dutch Defence is, partly thanks to D66. Anyway, let's take the next example. D66 has always been in favour of the closure of coal plants and also for the closure of the Groningen gas field. This appears to have been a major blunder in this entire Ukraine crisis. So can we expect a turn of D66 at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u50	No. Perhaps, in view of Mr Van Haga's tone, I will respond a little more clearly. More than ten years ago, Stientje van Veldhoven, one of my predecessors, and I here in this Chamber together advocated that we should get rid of the dependence of foreign regimes as quickly as possible, of the ayatollahs in the Middle East and of the gas from Russia. Our plea was then: hydrogen, windmills and solar panels. Parties like your then party, the VVD, and parties to the right of the VVD, thought that was nonsense. They laughed very much about that back then. They've been ridiculing it. If we had done something then, Mr Hoekstra had already expressed deep regret at this situation, we would not have been in this situation. So I am certainly not taking the view that D66 is the basis for this. In fact, if we had then done what we had proposed all this time, we might not be in trouble right now. We do now have a major problem with our dependencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u51	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u52	Of course, that ridicule was entirely justified. We've shut down state-of-the-art coal power plants. We're gonna leave now, what's it gonna be? 600 billion kuub and therefore 1,000, 2,000 billion euros in the back of the ground if I calculate the current gas price. It is therefore quite right that my party at the time has ridiculed you on that point. Finally. The Dutch farmers have always found a great enemy in D66. We know the whole nitrogen debacle. D66 wants to buy out the farmers. Now we are on the eve of a huge food crisis, a food security crisis. This is all due to a self-created kafkaesque nitrogen problem. I understand that this is not entirely part of this debate, but in the light of the Ukraine story this is indeed important. So this is the third major problem that has been partly caused by D66. It is about safety, energy security and food security. Can I expect a spin of D66 on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u53	D6... I wanted to say D66! I mean Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u54	I do speak for D66. I sense a certain predilection from Mr Van Haga to explain history in one way. I'd like to get him out of that dream anyway. D66 wants to tackle the nitrogen crisis decisively. Do you know why? Because the Netherlands is locked. The Netherlands is locked! We can't build houses because of the nitrogen crisis. Our nature dies in silence because of the nitrogen crisis. We cannot build roads or roads because of the nitrogen crisis. We can't even build hydrogen plants because of the nitrogen crisis. Now we can differ on how to solve this, but one thing was very clear: one of the main causes of the nitrogen crisis here in the Netherlands is intensive livestock farming. I believe that my colleague Tjeerd de Groot has put forward very good proposals for this, which not only ensure that the livestock is reduced, but also that the government is putting this into effect in the form of a plan to improve the quality of life for the animals, but also that the farmers' income model is improving. So, Mr. Van Haga, I'd actually like to say to you, "Take this opportunity. You have been switched sides several times, but this is the time to change positions as well."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u57	I give the floor to Mr Van Haga. No, sorry, there's another late interruption for you, Mr. Sjoerdsma, from Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u58	My question to Mr Sjoerdsma concerns the accession of the European Union. Mr Sjoerdsma says that he thinks that we should not deny that Ukraine. Now it is true that there are several criteria that a country must meet. These include democracy, corruption and the rule of law. Ukraine is far from meeting those criteria, not even meeting the criteria we would normally set if a country wanted to become a candidate. Our position has always been that Ukraine is not therefore a candidate, but that we do have all kinds of other ways in which the European Union cooperates with Ukraine. Does Mr Sjoerdsma think that, however cynical, a war should be a reason for starting the procedure for accession? And there are other countries that want such membership, such as Georgia and Moldova, which we might say no to. Does this mean that we say yes to Ukraine because of the war, and we say no to other countries? I don't think that makes any sense. I ask Mr Sjoerdsma what he thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u59	Yes. Indeed, I think that perspective should be on the table. I believe that this perspective should also be on the table for the following reason. The Treaty states that there are two stages for accession. The first is that of a candidate and the second is that of actual membership. The criteria for actually becoming a member of the European Union are incredibly strict. They're really incredibly strict. They're quite right to be. We shouldn't bargain with that either. So we should not accelerate there and we should not take anything away from it. These are criteria in the area of the rule of law, democracy, market organisation and so on. The criteria for becoming a candidate country are, of course, a bit more vague. Mr. Brekelmans knows that too. This is a European state which endorses and promotes the values set out in Article 2 of the Treaty. And let us be honest about what is happening in Ukraine right now. If there is one state on the European continent that conveys European values, it is Ukraine. In fact, Ukraine is desperately looking for these values. I can't say anything else about that. Perhaps, in response to Mr Brekelmans' question, it is still important to compare Ukraine's position in this area with that of other candidate countries. Take Turkey, take some states in the Balkans. I think that Mr Brekelmans should also note that Ukraine is far from a perfect state, but that that country is in some respects really further on the road than other candidate countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u60	Then my first follow-up question is whether Mr Sjoerdsma automatically believes that Georgia, Moldova and other countries may become candidates. They also express a very clear wish and talk about Russian threat. My second question concerns timing. We have, of course, seen in the past that if Ukraine gets closer to cooperation with the European Union, it has been a reason for more Russian aggression. We can now see that these two countries are just about to sit down, although they may only be first, little children's steps. Is it wise to do this right now? It is very likely that the conflict will continue to stir up and further increase the Russian threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u61	I am not so sure whether it matters for Mr Putin what we do or do not do with Ukraine. I am convinced that his great dream is to restore the Soviet Union to its old glory. I am convinced that he does not care what those old Soviet states want. I am convinced that he wants to waltz over the sovereign will of the people in some of those states. A large, democratic majority of Ukrainians have, of course, indicated that they want to join NATO and the European Union, and Ukraine has also enshrined this wish in its constitution. If Ukraine itself indicates this, then it is up to us to decide, in our sovereignty and on the basis of our own assessment frameworks, whether we want to welcome the Ukrainians or not. You should not be blackmailed by Putin who then says that he sees this as an escalation. Then you'll get into a bit of the same discussion I just had with Mr. Brekelmans about the fighter jets. No, this is an expression of a free will of the people, and we must respect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u62	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u63	Mr. Chairman. From the coronapsychosis we now move into Ukraine psychosis. More and more we see that boycotting everything Russian takes discriminatory forms. A concert where Russian composers would be played is canceled. A Russian conductor gets fired. Walkers from Russia and Belarus are not welcome at the Nijmegen Evening Four Days. Russian shopkeepers are threatened and rulers openly support the exclusion of Russian athletes and artists. How does this relate to BVNL's adopted motion not to harm the Russian people through the boycotts? And what happened to our adopted motion on mapping the collateral damage of sanctions? Have we worked out any scenarios yet? Several economists are now warning of a recession, and that is true because we have a number of crises due to the mispolicy of the last ten years. A security crisis because the successive Rutte Cabinets completely stripped the army. A threatening food crisis because Rutte IV considers nitrogen hoax to be more important than our farmers' food production. And an energy crisis because we shut down coal power plants and the Groninger gas field without alternatives. And that is why my question to the Minister: isn't this the time to apologize for the last ten years and restore these three capital failures? Mr. Chairman. European parliamentarians are calling for a boycott of Russian oil and gas, as are the US and Great Britain. Let's keep a cool head in here, too. Without affordable gas, our economy will collapse completely. Can we be promised that we will not go along with this call and not boycott Russian gas? Betting on de-escalation remains BVNL's position. Diplomatic actions are fine. Economic sanctions do not, because they primarily affect the Russian people. And delivering weapons is completely counterproductive. A Dutch prime minister who speaks in addition to the Ukrainian flag of war language and the infected war cry "Slava Ukraini!" exclamation is not in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u64	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u65	Mr. Chairman. It is appalling to see how a humanitarian disaster is taking place in Ukraine, such as the destruction of the children's hospital in Marioepol yesterday. Today we see again that a humanitarian convoy that Marioepol tried to reach had to reverse due to fighting. What is the state of play in the contribution of the Netherlands to the provision of humanitarian aid and can we intensify it? Although another European sanction package was launched yesterday, it is far from enough to stop the flow of money towards Putin from oil and gas. As Sheila Sitalsing put it so well yesterday in her column, I quote: "on the other hand, heavy sanctions are chalking up and continuing to pump oil and gas dollars into Russia is like financing a rabid terrorist you say you want to fight." For weeks now, the Party for Animals and other parties have been asking for an emergency saving plan, so that we can boycott Russian gas like the United States. The picture that is now being sketched is that we are burdening people with lower incomes with the highest burdens. But there's no need for that at all. It takes bold political choices. Business buildings in the evening and on weekends do not heat or light up. Do not heat empty offices and address unnecessary road and air traffic. A switch-off plan for our energy, so that we save energy for the households and essential factories, not for the flowers or the fertilizer plant. We could have taken these steps immediately, out of solidarity and for effectiveness. My question to the cabinet is: why is this emergency saving plan still not there? Why isn't the shutdown plan working yet? Is energy saving at the moment also part of the discussions at European level on sanctions? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the long list of consequences of this terrible war, there is now also a warning that a global food crisis is threatened by rising prices. Directly, the call from the agro-industry to halt the necessary sustainability of agriculture, climate plans and nitrogen measures was voiced, under the guise of food security. That's the world upside down. Putin's war is not a reason to stand on the brakes, but precisely to speed up that transition and become more self-sufficient. Two thirds of the wheat grown in the Netherlands is processed in cattle feed. In addition, intensive livestock farming places a huge burden on agricultural land elsewhere. So here too: to continue the transition, to save, to save and to save and to reduce intensive livestock farming as quickly as possible. Finally, Mr President. When Ukrainian refugees arrive in the Netherlands, we must do what we can to alleviate their suffering. Many refugees have lost everything, but have taken their pet on the long journey. The COA now obliges people to say goodbye to their animal, which exacerbates their suffering. In the meantime, we know that there are plenty of families in the Netherlands who want to welcome families with animals. Only, there is no coordination. This requires national support. I understand that these rulers now have other things on their plate, but I would also like to ask the cabinet to work on this and to put an end to this unnecessary suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. There is an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u67	I have one more question, which is really about all those Ukrainians who are now dealing with Russian violence: men who are being shot, women who have to flee pregnancy clinics, children who are being buried under the rubble of their homes. The Ukrainian government wants to protect them and says, "Give us weapons." What does the Party for Animals say to that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u68	We want to do everything in our power to find a solution through diplomatic means. We can see that's not working right now. Mr Sjoerdsma is right to say that I fully agree that we should allow Ukrainians to defend themselves. That's also why the Animal Party is in charge of sending defensive weapons. We did not vote for D66's motion to invest even more money, extra, in Defense, because we see that the balancing is very difficult: do you have to bet on more weapons, which threatens an escalation, or should you bet on de-escalation? More colleagues have referred to this. As much de-escalation as possible, but defensive weapons: that is still the line of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u69	That is good news, because earlier there was a motion by Mr Van Dijk not to send weapons. Unless I'm quite wrong about that, your party was in favour of that too. I welcome the fact that the Animal Party is now in favour of sending defensive weapons to Ukraine. I think that's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u70	Mrs Van der Plas of BBB wants to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u71	I hear Mrs Teunissen say that the agricultural lobby is taking up the war to stop, well, all sorts of weird greeneals and that sort of thing. That's what Trouw reported today. Then we hear Mrs Teunissen doing exactly the same thing, but the other way around. What's the difference? Now Mrs Teunissen is also using her contribution to a Ukraine debate for a plea to eat more plant-based food. The pot blames the kettle for looking black; I think that is a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u72	I disagree with Mrs Van der Plas. The Animal Party has long been pointing to the risks that exist if we remain so dependent on other countries for our food. We have been arguing for a more self-sufficient agriculture for decades since we were in this Chamber. This will solve not only the nitrogen problem and the natural crisis, but also the global food crisis. We then make ourselves less dependent on other countries. The rising food prices are not something the Party uses for the Animals now, but they are, of course, an additional reason to say: now we have to turn the wheel. Besides, we've already started that with the Green Deal. According to the Animal Party, this does not go far enough, but a step has been taken, for example to tackle the problem of nitrogen. It creates a win-win situation. We say, "Put on that line and speed up the course we are heading now instead of going against it." That's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u73	There is talk of an agricultural lobby, but it is not an agricultural lobby; it is a plea for food production. I have said it many times here: food is one of the first three necessities of life; without food you die. But I do think Mrs Teunissen has a bit of butter on her head. One sector is blamed, such as 'Oh, look what bad, they are using Ukraine for their own agenda', but then Mrs Teunissen does exactly the same thing. I just reported that. So my question is again: what is the difference? It's okay, I'll let you keep your story. You may make your plea; I am not against that. That's fine, but what's the difference? Because one does it one way and the other does it the other way. Then it's just the same thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u74	I repeat my response just now. I'll try to add another supplement. I would like to contradict the suggestion that I say that the agro-industry is using this crisis for its own agenda. I didn't say that at all. However, I have said that the agro-industry, the agricultural lobby or food lobby, whatever you may call it, is in favour of stopping the Green Deal and even more sustainable measures now from food security. My argument is correct: if we want to go for food security, if we do not want to increase prices too high, then we need to become more self-sufficient, but then we also need to keep far fewer animals. That's my plea right now. But I would like to say that the agro-industry is making use of the situation; that is not what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u75	The Netherlands cannot become self-sufficient at all. To feed our entire population, we need 3.59 million hectares of land and the Netherlands only has 1.82 million hectares of agricultural land. So we can't become self-sufficient at all. We're always dependent on imports. We import net more food than we export. So my plea is: to ensure the best possible food production in the Netherlands... then we are on each other's side, I think. I think it is only a matter of food for Mrs Teunissen other than for me. So it's a utopia to think that we have to make ourselves completely self-sufficient, because we just can't. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u76	I have outlined in my contribution that I think we should become more self-sufficient. This means that we are going to produce and consume more regional food and that we must get rid of this dependence on powers, on an unreliable food chain. That's the bottom line. I totally agree that we cannot produce all the food in the Netherlands. But we can set limits to our way of consuming and producing. Once again, I have stressed that if we continue on the current road and food prices rise... our way of producing is hugely affecting agricultural land elsewhere. So if we are going to get food from somewhere else, it will also cause people in other countries to get into food supply problems. That's what we're trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u77	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK for his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u78	Mr. Chairman. As usual on this subject, I am speaking on behalf of the Den Haan Group. Mr. Chairman. As we speak now, people in Ukraine are being bombarded with bombs. That is why this debate feels a little harsh, just like all the previous debates on this subject. In Ukrainian streets, bunkers and cities people are currently fighting for their lives. Ukrainian women have to give birth in subway stations and cellars, without any medical assistance. Even children do not escape this bloody war. Yesterday, a children's hospital and maternity clinic was bombed in Marioepol. According to the mayor of that city, 1,300 civilian casualties have now occurred. That's how cruel Putin is. Zelensky even speaks of genocide. Mr. Chairman. The civilian population needs help. These innocent people need to be evacuated. I would therefore ask the Minister what the latest state of play is with regard to the deployment of those humanitarian evacuation corridors. Are the reports true that Putin only allows evacuation to Russia and Belarus and not to the west? What are also the efforts of the Dutch cabinet in an international context to ensure that these evacuations take place? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the innocent people in Ukraine are being bombarded with cluster munitions. I made a point about this during the previous debate. In fact, the Minister considers it highly likely that Russian forces have used the forbidden ammunition in the city of Kharkiv. The perpetrators of these war crimes therefore deserve to be punished for their crimes. I would like to ask the Minister if there are any developments regarding the implementation of the motion by myself and Mr Sjoerdsma to steer with similar countries on mechanisms such as independent investigation for evidence collection of international crimes, such as illegal use of weapons and cluster munitions in Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's letter contains a remarkable document: "Neither Russia nor Ukraine is party to this treaty and their use of these weapons is not prohibited in all cases." This is about the treaty to ban cluster munitions. It literally says "not in all cases." I wonder in what cases it is allowed and in what cases it is not. Can you explain that? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, Ukrainians deserve to be shown that we are standing next to them. That is the side of international justice. For days we have heard from Ukraine an urgent appeal from Zelensky to NATO: set up a no-fly zone. This could prevent many civilian casualties. However, I have to say that NATO does not want to defend Ukraine because it is afraid of a third world war. Aren't we already in World War III? The agreements of 1994 in the Budapest Treaty proved to have been worthless after all. The Treaty states that the nuclear powers I am referring to are the United States, Russia, Great Britain and France, which guarantee the security and sovereignty of Ukraine. Nothing could be further from the truth. Then one final point. I am very curious about the latest state of affairs regarding the MiG-29 fighter jets that Poland would like to donate to Ukraine. The United States has indicated that they do not want that. Is that a NATO decision or an American decision? Couldn't we make sure that those MiG fighters end up in Ukraine in another way? Does the Minister have any ideas about that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I sincerely wonder why an artificial distinction is being made between weapons that we are already supplying to Ukraine and what Zelensky is asking for, such as fighter planes. Is there a conclusive explanation for that? I've seen a whole list of all the weapons we're delivering right now. I imagine those fighter jets can really make a significant difference. Not the whole difference, but why do we supply one kind of weapon and not the other? I'm asking if there's any explanation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u79	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr. Chairman. The war in Ukraine has been going on for two weeks. In those weeks, Russia has literally and figuratively crossed borders. Dozens of cities have been destroyed, hundreds of people have been killed and millions of civilians have fled. The damage is in billions. According to the SGP, the efforts should now focus on de-escalation. This will prevent an even greater humanitarian disaster and a global food crisis. In this way, it is possible to avoid the fire skipping to EU or NATO territory. For example, there are peace talks that really do justice to the Ukrainians. In that de-escalation, the "how" is of course the biggest challenge. As an aggressor, Putin is the first to stop the violence. The pressure on him should be as high as possible. I was thinking of the height of the Cold War: the Cuban crisis. Even then, in 1962, Moscow provoked another country with a hostile act. As we know, American President Kennedy showed determination and remained faithful to his own values and to his own security. He chose a proportional confrontation in the form of a sea blockade. It is our challenge to look for the modern-day variant. As far as the SGP is concerned, such a blockade must consist of joint, maximum and lasting financial, economic, diplomatic and defensive military pressure. Then Putin will benefit most from peace negotiations. My questions to the Foreign Minister are therefore the following. Does he agree that EU membership is neither necessary nor appropriate in this context? Is it true that sanctions are ineffective as long as only one Russian bank remains connected to SWIFT and if so, what do we do about it? What are the diplomatic efforts to secure a safe humanitarian corridor from the besieged cities towards the West and to prevent trafficking in human beings among Ukrainian refugees? Mr. Chairman. It has been said before: the war has awakened us from our military and geopolitical hibernation. This quote by Putin himself proves that a strong force is a bitter necessity. It dates back to his time at the KGB outpost in Dresden. "Don't forget," said Putin, "that only the obvious military superiority of the West can bring the rogue masters in the Kremlin back to their senses." That military superiority was, and is, a long way to go in Europe for the time being, but it is now being worked hard. The SGP welcomes the motion on the NATO standard adopted last week, but we have been working on an initiative legislative proposal on this in recent months. Due to the Ukraine war, we are moving forward with speed. I would like to address all my fellow Members today: let us really take action now. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with two points of interest. The first is this. What year should gas imports from Russia have stopped? Does the cabinet opt for larger gas stocks, long-term contracts and small-field extraction? The second point of attention: will there be a central support point for both Dutch people who receive Ukrainians and Ukrainians who have questions about visas and about access to the labour market? When is this to be clarified? Mr President, I will conclude. Yesterday many churches celebrated prayer for fishing, crop and labor. This prayer remains essential, including for peace in Ukraine, Europe and the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ukrainian cities are being shot in ruins. This afternoon the news came that the tanks moving towards Kiev have already been spotted near the suburbs of Kiev. Millions of refugees are drifting and there is a dark cloud hanging over our economy. There are more and more attacks affecting the civilian population. That is extremely poignant. The PVV condemns this again. Can the Minister confirm the announcement that President Zelensky no longer wants to press for NATO membership of Ukraine and is also prepared to negotiate the status of the Donbas regions and of Crimea? Does the Minister agree with me that this opens up a diplomatic solution and should therefore be strongly supported by the international community? Has the government confirmed its support for this to Zelensky? Of course, we all want the violence to stop as soon as possible, but what does not help is Dutch and European politicians throwing extra oil on the fire. It is distasteful that some people smell an opportunity to push over the smoking Ukrainian ruins another agenda, namely for more European Union, for a Ukrainian NATO and EU membership, for a European army and for fighter jets for Ukraine. The PVV really thinks that this is totally irresponsible and dangerous. Just because Putin behaves recklessly doesn't mean that stupid behavior should be copied by us. By "us," I mean the politicians from the Western countries. Where is the rest and the reason, then I wonder. Just pull a line on NATO membership and EU membership for Ukraine. Then it's clear. Then Mr. Zelensky also knows exactly where he's at those points. I'd like a reaction from the government. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has been warning against a war of sanctions for a long time. We're not gonna win anything, but we're gonna lose big. From Vladivostok to The Hague, ordinary citizens suffer from this. They are financially ruined, while Mr Putin does not care at all. However, the government wants to intensify that war of sanctions further. The Foreign Minister said, as I read, that all options for sanctions are on the table, including an import ban on Russian oil and gas. I would like to say to the cabinet: don't do that. I call on them not to. I would also like to ask whether it has been calculated what such a ban will cost the Dutch citizen extra. Then the military aspect of this war. Of course, we hope that the brave Ukrainians will hold on to this misunderstanding, even though it would only be to keep that grain barn out of Putin's hands. We must help the Eastern NATO allies who suffer from past trauma. They are our military allies. NATO would, of course, not be credible if we did not give these countries additional support. The PVV therefore looks positively at the measures to strengthen the eastern flank of the alliance. A Dutch Patriot air defense system is going to Slovakia. At least that's in preparation. The question then is whether our defense forces have enough air defense systems left to defend our own territory. What if we have to protect our own strategic interests, such as the port of Rotterdam, in further escalation of this whole situation? Can we still do that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the PVV wishes to reiterate and emphasise the need to end Putin's aggression as soon as possible. We do not believe that this is possible by increasing economic and military pressure. Putin has nothing to lose and will, I fear, react with increasing violence. That would be terrible, and we really shouldn't have that. That is why I call on the cabinet now to focus on diplomacy on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u83	Thank you. You're at the end of your speech. Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u84	The PVV doesn't want sanctions, I just heard. In the previous meetings this was not quite the case, but the PVV first wanted to look at the sanctions before approving it. So it's true that the PVV here just says they don't want any sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u85	Experience with many cases where sanctions have been imposed teaches us that these sanctions simply do not achieve the result that they are intended to achieve. The point is that you enforce sanctions that the behavior you don't want is ignored. There are dozens of cases where sanctions have been imposed and history has shown that this almost never happens. On the contrary, these sanctions harden the countries to which they have been imposed and even harden the people of those countries. The people support its leadership, because it must be subject to sanctions. So we say: experience has shown that these sanctions are usually counterproductive. If you want to impose a sanction, then at least consider and calculate the consequences not only for that country but also for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u86	The PVV does not want sanctions, but what does the PVV want? Don't do anything, is that the option?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u87	Devoting to diplomatic means must be the course. Ensuring that the Netherlands stays outside the war must also be the course. For the rest, Ukraine's defence is really up to the Ukrainians themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u88	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. There is another interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u89	I would nevertheless like to make an attempt to see whether we understand the position of the PVV, because what is happening in Ukraine, of course, is also directly about our security here in the Netherlands. So I just wanted to see if it's really true that the PVV doesn't want sanctions against Russia, that the PVV doesn't want to send weapons to Ukraine, that the PVV says that Ukraine has no perspective on EU and NATO, and that the PVV actually says: okay, Ukrainian refugees if it really has to, but then all the other asylum seekers and refugees have to leave the country. Is that the PVV's point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u90	I have just said it, but I would like to repeat it again for Mr Sjoerdsma. Sanctions don't help. That proves the experience. I can't imagine you've never seen that, that you haven't. You must have seen that too, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Sanctions rarely lead to the intended purpose. Only in exceptional cases has that happened a few times. But most sanctions do not lead to the desired goal. They only make the situation worse. When it comes to the supply of weapons, I say: I give the Ukrainians their weapons, but it should not be the case that the Netherlands comes into the danger zone by supplying them and is also involved in a war. I mean, all that's gotta be crazy. However much our heart lies with the well-being of the Ukrainians, my heart lies even more with the well-being of the Dutch. And we do not want the Netherlands to get involved in a war in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u91	Thank you. Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u92	I have to say, however, with regret, that Mr De Roon, but also the PVV, makes the Netherlands more unsafe. For he allows that is his line, that Putin may invade a country adjacent to the European Union and that the consequences are according to the PVV: go ahead. No economic sanctions. We're not delivering weapons. No perspective. Ukraine is no longer a sovereign country. And, yes, these refugees, we do not receive them here in the Netherlands. I really tell you, Mr De Roon, that this is a line that doesn't fit very well with the way the Netherlands is acting now, not even with your own voters. Those who say: catch the refugees; do those sanctions; get to work now to keep the Netherlands safe. My question to Mr De Roon is: are you turning?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u93	Of course, that's all bullshit. We are not saying that Russia is allowed to invade Ukraine, as Mr Sjoerdsma now puts it. That's just not true. We're not saying that at all. We say that it is unlawful, that they should not do so and that we should condemn it. But that doesn't mean that you have to bring the Netherlands into the danger zone. And that's what you do with all the plans you're showing here. The PVV doesn't want that. We are choosing the Netherlands, not Ukraine as the most important point that we must stand up for. A comment has also been made on the refugees. We believe, of course, that these are real refugees, not fake refugees, not lucky seekers, but people who are really fleeing violence and war. Of course they have to be taken care of. That must be done first and foremost in the border countries where they enter, because that is where it is going. If the water gets to them there and they can't deal with so many refugees, we can always see what we're going to do next. But if we are going to do that, then it must be the case that all kinds of people who are now illegal in the Netherlands, who are not supposed to be here at all but who, thanks to parties like D66, can just hang around here, then leave our country. Our country is full. So make room for Ukrainian refugees and let the people who aren't supposed to be here, the fake refugees, just leave the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u94	I don't think it makes much sense, but I still feel called to come to the interrupting microphone. Mr De Roon also talks about what history teaches. History has also shown that an appeasement policy, one-sided, which you are advocating here, has a lot of harmful consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u95	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u96	Mr. President, through you. I note, therefore, that a Member of Parliament speaking on behalf of the Freedom Party, a party which has freedom in its name, has learned nothing from history. It would be better if the vast majority of this Parliament really showed an irrational dictator that there are limits. You must dare to take measures to that end, and you must dare to defend it, even if it hurts. We see them too, but that is what a courageous parliamentarians, certainly of a party that has 'Freedom' in its name, should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u97	That is all easy for a parliamentarians to say, but of course it is not about what a parliamentarians thinks and whether he is brave or not. It is about what the consequences are for Dutch citizens. You need to look at that, Mr. Van der Lee, and you need to be aware of that before you use great words about the pain we must suffer. See what that pain will be before you say that sort of thing. In any case, the PVV is not in favour of an appeal policy. Of course not, we condemn what has happened and we condemn what is happening now. We believe that this case should be reversed as far as possible. But we do not want the Netherlands to make the waves even higher, so high that it becomes dangerous and harmful for the Netherlands and the Dutch and that they will suffer great financial pain. That just shouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u99	Mr. Chairman. We have just had a discussion here in our Parliament with the members of Lithuania's parliament. They are here today in connection with the war in Ukraine, the war that began two weeks ago and which concerns us all. We're looking, I heard, on the Internet on the words "gas masks," "shackles" and "jodium pills." Many of us are deeply concerned about the future. Meanwhile, we see a brave Ukrainian people fighting for their country, no matter how cruel and miserable their position is. I see unity in Ukraine, determination and patriotism, musicians on the street, a girl singing in a shelter, marriages on the front line. The world sees what's happening in Ukraine. The reckoning with the perpetrators of this raid will take place. When the gun clatter stops, when fugitives return to their loved ones and homes and when the reconstruction starts, we know who is guilty of this misery. We'll have them answer for that. That is why I think it is important that the evidence bank for what is now happening in Ukraine should function properly. Can the Minister say anything about that? What agencies are working on this? Mr. Chairman. I also have questions about NATO, and in particular about the Baltic States, about the precarious situation of nuclear power stations and the food supply problems. If you don't know what's going to happen because of a country's unpredictability, then you can switch to scenario planning. Is that how the government works? What is the Netherlands doing in NATO context? How do we build up the presence at the eastern border and when do we do that? A no-fly zone is not wise. Looks like he's off the track. Poland openly communicates that it is prepared to supply fighter planes to Ukraine. We believe that Ukraine should be able to defend itself. They have that right. But why do arms supplies, big or small, not happen much behind the scenes anymore? I'd like a response. This brings me to the threat of a nuclear war by Russia. To what extent are we prepared for the blackest scenario? I do not need concrete public commitments here, but I need confirmation that the Netherlands and NATO are working on this. The CDA wants aid to be made a top priority for the Baltic States. We greatly appreciate the visits of ministers to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. An attack on them is an attack on us. We would like to hear from both ministers that we are working on this and what is the question of the Baltic States. Does NATO coordinate our efforts or is there bilateral contact about them? Mr. Chairman. I believe that the nuclear sites in Ukraine should be secured. This is in the interests of the people of Ukraine, Russia, Europe and the world population. To what extent can a UN mandate be drawn up to ensure that nuclear sites meet certain conditions and that action is taken differently? I believe that we should ask Russia to allow independent observers to the nuclear power stations, as the International Atomic Energy Agency offers independently, without interfering in the conflict. Does our cabinet wish to convey that message today and tomorrow at the European Council? I already have a motion for a resolution that has been signed very widely. Maybe a reaction to that. Mr President, then food security. As far as we are concerned, we are going to scale up Europe where essential crops are at stake. Then there is the ring around Europe, particularly the Middle East and North Africa. That's where people get in big trouble if this goes on like this. The grain price is twice as high as at the beginning of the Arab Spring. The situation is very worrying, as was also indicated by farmer Huizinga in Nieuwsuur. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Finally. There is broad support for sanctions, including from the business community. And they're starting to work, I'll tell my colleague De Roon. At the same time, a number of sectors may be more affected than others. Our question is how far Europe stands with accompanying policies and what possibilities do ministers see for de-escalation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the rest, Moldova has already been mentioned by a number of colleagues, as well as the evacuation corridors. I'd like to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u100	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u101	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks of Putin's war, a war that costs Ukrainian lives every day and in which the Russian population suffers from Putin's dictatorship. A war that threatens Europe's free democracy and shakes the world order. Like any international conflict, the situation is complex and raises many questions. How serious is Putin's nuclear weapon threat? How safe are the nuclear power plants? The attacks on children's hospitals: where and when does this end? What steps can we take to ensure that this conflict ends as quickly as possible and makes as few victims as possible? The complexity of this war requires strategic thinking and reflection. Any decision can have a major impact on stability and security in the world and on the future world order. A no-fly zone causes a major escalation. Are we talking about this now or not? I'd like a response. Then there is the effect of the working force of the economic sanctions. What expectations does the Minister have with regard to the time limit for putting Putin to an end? Are additional sanctions still being considered? Are we also looking at how we can further reduce energy dependency? Because Putin is clearly sending out the message that he's afraid of that. The developments at today's and tomorrow's European summits are a key moment in the European response. The French Presidency has already indicated that the EU summit in Versailles will bring Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova closer together: not EU membership, but an alternative. It proposes a commitment that is closer than the existing treaties, both economically and from shared values. What is the position of the Dutch Government on this? Does the Minister agree with the French Presidency that a political signal can be given to Ukraine about closer ties with the EU? We also see that the European Union is becoming a truly cooperative union at a staggering pace. The need for a European defence force, which Volt has been advocating since the first moment, is suddenly high on the Brussels and national agendas. At the summit, France will also propose a joint European fund, which can be used to invest in joint defence capabilities. What is the position of the Netherlands on this proposal? Of course, we want to avoid nuclear war at all costs. We also want to prevent this war from developing and we would like to find a diplomatic solution as soon as possible. Above all, we want to stop the human suffering in Ukraine as soon as possible. The blockades threatening cereal exports from Ukraine and the possibility of paying for Russian grain are likely to lead to hunger in large parts of the Middle East and North Africa. What solutions does the Minister see for this? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with the following question to the directors. Actually, it's more of a reflection I'd like to hear from them in these turbulent times. Who do we as a human being and as a European want to be in this vortex of barbaric human rights violations, violations of international law and everything that defines the rule of law, democracy and freedom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, inhabitants of the Netherlands and people in the public gallery. Bombs at a children's hospital in Marioepol. Premature babies in a shelter in Dnipro. Innocent civilians being shot at. Unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. This afternoon I had a conversation with a number of Lithuanian parliamentarians. They were guests here in the House of Representatives. They know even better what Putin is capable of. They warned us to enforce the sanctions strictly, because Putin just sits back, waiting for the sanctions to fall. Then he can strike again at another time. Putin will not rest until he has a Soviet Union again. The ultimate weapon against uncertainty and fear is, as far as BBB is concerned, a resilient society. It consists of three pillars: defence, energy independence and food security. We will have to comply with NATO's 2% standard as soon as possible, and we can even get over it. Hopefully the cabinet will build on the Sjoerdsma motion, so I ask the ministers. Otherwise, I am considering an amendment to the Spring Note. If something has become crystal clear, it is that we are no longer dependent on non-free countries for our energy. What is actually being done to achieve this and when will we be ready? Mr. Chairman. Then there is food security. Far before this war, the UN warned against this. D66 sees no problems for the Netherlands. But farmer Kees Huizinga, who I think was visiting this morning with the Foreign Minister, who has been living in Ukraine for decades, kept a mirror in the country last week. Russia and Ukraine produce 80% of global sunflower oil exports, around 25% of wheat and 20% of maize. War has a devastating impact on the fertility of agricultural land and the productive capacity of farms. The high energy costs mean very expensive fertilizer worldwide and therefore less use of it. This has only one effect: lower yields worldwide. What is not sown by the war in Ukraine will not be harvested. Can you say, "We'll sow later"? No. Agriculture works in seasons. You cannot sow in August what must be sown in March. Mr. Chairman. We always think that the Netherlands only exports food, but we import much more food than we export. Even if the Netherlands stops its exports and everyone starts eating vegetarian food, Dutch agriculture cannot feed the Dutch population. In total, the Netherlands needs 3.59 million hectares for food consumption, while our agricultural area is only 1.82 million hectares. Food scarcity is certainly lurking here too. Mr. Chairman. Worldwide, almost 1 billion people are already starving. The number of people who lack access to food has increased due to the coronapandemic from 135 million in 2019 to 276 million today. There is also a threat of famine for 44 million people in 38 countries. That is why BBB says: cherish our farmers and cherish our fishermen, because they can help to feed the world. When it's gone, it'll never come back. Let us not take our fear of this situation out on our Russian compatriots. Where they are called names, their leases are dissolved and their culture is being attacked, we have to draw a line unbearably. This isn't their war either, it's their dictator's. Mr. Chairman. Our society is being tested in these times. There is much to be asked of our resilience, our humanity and especially our wallet. That is why I also ask this government to provide citizens with relief as soon as possible. Other countries are already doing this. Why not us? Finally. Some parties here say that a long history is forgotten, that Ukraine itself is not always a sweetheart and that that is why we are being messed up in a war. No one denies that there's a history attached to this war. But when you invade an independent country, it suddenly becomes very irrelevant. As soon as you bomb children's hospitals, it even pales. Using history to justify this crime is like exonerating someone who killed his partner because that partner cheated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u104	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u105	Now that I have heard Mrs van der Plas' entire contribution, there is a great temptation to respond in particular to that last sentence. It made me laugh, even though it's obviously not meant to be funny. But I came forward because I have a sincere question for Mrs Van der Plas. She says that we have lost the exact number of 300, so a lot of hectares are needed to provide our own food. I just wanted to catch on to that. I wonder whether this is a figure with or without an incalculation of all the modern techniques that we have at our disposal to produce, for example, underground, stacked and using all kinds of light crops. I'm just curious if that's a figure taking into account any innovative possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u106	No, this is a figure based on what we eat in the Netherlands. For everything we consume, we would not need 300 hectares, but 3.59 million hectares; that is a lot. That's based on what we all eat. We eat kiwis, rice, bananas, chocolate, coffee, tea, pasta and you name it all. We eat so much that we cannot produce here. If you want to grow all that here, you just need that farmland. I also know a little bit about what Mrs Simons is referring to. There have also been experiments with large slaflats in the Netherlands; that's just what we'll call them. They're failing. There's been one in Rotterdam. That's what they've stopped doing. You could, but you also need nutrients. You can't just eat lettuce or vegetables. You need different nutrients, building materials for your body. So you're gonna need fibers, too. You'll need nuts and seeds. You're gonna need protein. One opts for vegetable proteins and the other for animal proteins. So it's quite a complex whole. But of course I'm all for innovation. What we can do, we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mrs van der Plas is actually already answering my next question. We need something about our dependence, whether it's about energy or food. We simply need to do something with that, even beyond the current situation in Ukraine. So my next question would have been whether Mrs Van der Plas doesn't think you should do and-and-and-do, so you still have to invest in ways that are less exhausting to our living environment. Maybe you should accept here and there, and that is not the belief of BET1, but perhaps that of Mrs Van der Plas, that you cannot produce everything in an alternative way, but that you must do everything you can to get rid of that dependence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u108	Partly I agree, but it's not that simple. If our soil were dead in the Netherlands, there is sometimes a cry that nothing grows anymore and that we have zombie soil.............................................................................................................................................. There are crops growing every year. I'm very much in favour of innovation. I am also very often in favour of this when it comes to debates on food. We need to focus on innovations. But if we don't have any more farmers, we won't have much to do with innovation. After all, an auto mechanic cannot suddenly grow food. We don't have to, because that's what farmers are for. You know what I mean? Everything just chops up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u109	It was a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u110	I do not know if there is another supplementary question, but it is not as simple as it seems; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u111	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since last week's Chamber voted massively for extra money for weapons, hundreds of new victims and hundreds of thousands of people have fled Ukraine. Last week, I was talking about protecting people as a top priority. That's the thing for BET1 still is. It is horrible to see that Russia continues to fire during evacuations and that corridors do not lead to safe areas for people trying to flee. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is committed to a safe exodus of people in Ukraine, and how the pressure on Russia can be increased in order to achieve that. Mr. Chairman. Humanitarian organisations need a free and safe passage to the areas where people are victims of violence. That's what I mentioned last week. My question is, therefore, once again, how does the Minister intend to do this? And how does consultation with humanitarian organisations and local groups take place? Does the Minister intend to increase financial support for humanitarian aid? And how does he intend to use it? I would also stress once again the importance of local organisations with knowledge of the area. Mr. Chairman. The British NGO Action on Armed Violence has proven with research that when explosive weapons are used in populated areas, nine out of ten victims are civilians. That is still separate from the destruction of schools and hospitals. The use of explosive weapons must therefore be restricted as much as possible. Next month there will be a meeting on the international political declaration to combat the suffering of explosive weapons in populated areas. The Netherlands has an opportunity to contribute to this by pressing for as strong a statement as possible that dislikes explosive weapons. It could also play a significant role in future conflicts. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to commit himself to this and, if so, in what way. I'm getting to another point I made last week. There is discrimination within Ukraine and at borders with neighbouring countries such as Poland on the basis of skin colour. Last week it was hard for many people to accept, but in the meantime we cannot get around these facts. People of color are prevented, they're lined up in the back, locked out, ripped out of the train. That's traumatic, humiliating and inhumane. This happens while they have to flee a war. Of course, that's traumatic enough for everyone. The fact that Poland and Ukraine say that there is no problem does not mean that the Netherlands can say: well, well, then there is nothing wrong, so forget it. The UN and Human Rights Watch have documented evidence and countless videos and testimonies have appeared of students themselves. Furthermore, reports have also been received from the Sinti and Roma communities that they are treated in the same way. Pets of white Ukrainians are given priority over Sinti and Roma families on transports... I'm taking a dramatic break here. What's the Minister gonna do about this? How does the Netherlands oppose discrimination against refugees from Ukraine? And how will the Minister contribute to ensuring that everyone can flee Ukraine and find a safe haven in Europe? I would like a very specific answer to this question, Mr President. And how does the Minister prevent discrimination in the Netherlands in the reception of refugees from Ukraine? Yesterday, the Secretary of State of JenV made statements about this. Of course, I would also like to hear what the Minister thinks about this. The temporary protection directive was adopted by the EU on 3 March. That means protection for anyone who comes from Ukraine, regardless of whether you have a Ukrainian passport or not. So regardless of whether you have a temporary residence permit in Ukraine, or are stateless, or have no papers: you simply have the right to protection. My question to the Minister is: how are we going to apply this in Dutch care? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u113	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday I visited Ihor and his wife Marine in Rijswijk. They currently receive nine people, including three children, in a four-room flat. The commitment of people in the Netherlands is heartwarming. They send goods. They provide shelter for women. The amount of more than 100 million euros at Giro555 is also heartwarming. At the same time, practical questions now arise. What about teaching children who come? What's the status on medical care? This is settled for people in regular care, but how does it work for people who are taken care of by individuals? I know that the ministers have a different portfolio here, but these are the concerns that live there, and these are also the consequences of the Ukraine war, a war that the Netherlands is now also aware of. It is now two weeks since Russia started the war against Ukraine and the Russian President has turned shamelessly to the means of war. Thousands have now died compared to two weeks ago. For two weeks, a number of things have also been surprising, for example the gigantic Ukrainian force and the resistance of the population. That's also a surprise for Russia. What courage. What a power. We have also been surprised by the brave protests of thousands and thousands of Russians who have gone out at risk for their own lives or futures. There too we see courage, strength and a call for peace. Finally, the united response of the European countries to the imposition of sanctions. A front has been formed, a fist, which means that sanctions and measures are now in place. This offers some hope, but it raises the question of how to proceed. What steps should we take? As far as sanctions are concerned, I need an overview of what measures are actually in force and what sanctions are still in the toolbox. Could the Minister say something about that? Mr. Chairman. We do not hope so, but will, in the unexpected scenario that Russia wins the military battle, those sanctions be permanent? Will they be raised? I would like to hear what the longer-term vision of this scenario would be if this scenario were to become a reality. The Minister said in the Buitenhof programme that we must do everything we can to prevent a nuclear war. The Minister is cautious. I think that's wise, too. The Minister is opposed to setting up a no-fly zone, because NATO would then be directly involved in the conflict. The Christian Union agrees with that. If we do not want to escalate the conflict, then it is necessary and sensible to seize diplomacy and any chance of it. Does the Minister agree? What does he expect from the talks that have taken place in recent days and from the talks that have been in Turkey today? What is the Dutch cabinet's commitment? What does the Minister expect in the coming days? What role can the Netherlands play in NATO and the EU to maximise the chances of success in reaching an agreement? Mr. Chairman. The longer term will come to an end, because this war will also come to an end. Is it clear to the cabinet what Putin's final goal is? What is the ultimate goal of the Dutch cabinet with regard to our efforts in Ukraine? Is the government prepared to invite the countries representing the international legal order to discuss, for example, in The Hague, the city of law and peace, the longer-term vision and future of defence, and possibly also NATO and how we can continue to protect the international legal order in the future? Is the Minister prepared to take that down? Mr. Chairman. Then the questions to the Secretary of Defense. A number of Dutchmen have been deployed for four months in the framework of NATO Flash Forces, the NATO Response Force. That's good. Of course, that also brings with it concerns for the home front. But the question is also: what are the chances of this mission being extended? How many other missions can we expect in the short term? Mr. Chairman. It has just been mentioned, but discrimination at borders is unacceptable. That is where we expect an approach. But in the Netherlands we also see that Russians are being dishonored. We ask about this: what is the government's commitment? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The war in Ukraine is one great tragedy, first of all, of course, for Ukraine itself, but also for Europe and Russia. There are only losers, no winners. China and the US may be, because they can watch Europe further and further weaken itself with this war. It is a war that is also completely unnecessary and that would have been avoided if the Dutch government had only respected the will of the Dutch people in 2016, as expressed in the referendum on 6 April 2016. That referendum was partly initiated by FVD. On 6 April 2016, a large majority of the Dutch population opposed the association agreement that the EU wanted to conclude with Ukraine. That was an integration treaty, which obliged Ukraine to adopt all European legislation. Ukraine then had to choose between Russia and Europe: the ultimate contender. This treaty has led to enormous tensions in Ukraine. Ukraine means "border country" and consists of a part that is directed towards Russia and a part that is oriented towards Europe. We noticed that six years ago, when we campaigned against this miserable treaty. "Watch out. Don't do this. It leads to instability and tensions, and perhaps even war! That is not in the Dutch interest." The treaty came and finally the rightful Ukrainian Government rejected the treaty in 2013, I repeat: rejected. And then, after a violent coup supported by the West and the EU, this treaty came into being. Over the past decades, the West has achieved so-called regime changes in sovereign countries in many places in the world, with a lot of violence and civilian casualties; Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, for example. Countries that to this day have been completely destroyed by us. The sovereign Serbia was bombed by NATO in 1999; the same NATO that went against the agreements, after the fall of the Wall up to the Russian border. The ultimate goal is regime change in Russia. That has consequences, as we see now. Action leads to reaction. The misery that we are seeing today is to a large extent reduced to the terrible twisting apple that the EU threw to Ukraine ten years ago: that monstrous association agreement. Instead of focusing on de-escalation, the EU made every effort in 2013 and 2014 to fuel and strengthen the conflict in Ukraine. Who doesn't remember Van Baalen and Verhofstadt screaming at Maidan Square, calling on Ukrainians to resist and promising that a European delegation will travel to Kiev every week until the victory is achieved? Totally irresponsible, totally insane. Imagine Putin traveling to Paris to encourage the yellow shirts, or in Barcelona calling for protesters to oppose Madrid. With this cursed EU integration treaty, as it turns out, Pandora's box has been opened. We warned about this six years ago and the Dutch people agreed with us. The Dutch people, the sovereign of this country, also said six years ago: do not do this, we are against this EU integration treaty with Ukraine; this is not in Dutch interest. But what did our government do then? And what about this room? Against the explicit will of the Dutch people, not only was the terrible integration treaty approved, but also the referendum abolished by Minister Ollongren. Chamber and government thought they knew better than the Dutch people. Unheard! And look where we are now. If you'd listened to your sovereign, we wouldn't be in this mess right now. Even now, our government and this Chamber continue to steer the further escalation of the conflict. Instead of remaining neutral and allowing peace negotiations, we are sending weapons to Ukraine, something the Ukrainian people will ultimately be the biggest victims of. Our Secretary of Defense even added a tough muscle sign in her Twitter message. Finally. To our bewilderment, we are the only party that keeps a cool head and drives peace instead of further escalation of war. That is our main message to the Chamber and the government here today: stay neutral, do everything possible to de-escalate this terrible situation and do not throw oil on the fire. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u117	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need about 40 minutes to prepare themselves. I'm suspending the meeting for 40 minutes. Please note that this includes a dinner break. I have to say that the cabinet wanted to be a little earlier, but I would also like to give you the opportunity to eat something. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u118	The next item is the debate on current developments in Ukraine. I will give the Foreign Minister the floor in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u119	Thank you, Mr President. We stood here a week and a half ago: the Prime Minister, Minister Ollongren and myself. A lot has happened since then. Maybe before I go into the questions, I can say a few things, including where we stand. Mr. Chairman. What we all see in the news I think that many of us are literally sleeping with it and getting up with it in the morning is that the military invasion continues. She's moving less quickly than Putin had thought, but she's going on and on and on. We all see the horrible images of devastated residential areas, of people who have died and of a population that, quite understandably, is on the run massively. One event is even more extreme than the other. It is always complicated to take one thing out of it, but I would like to join with those here who have referred to the attack on a children's hospital. I would have liked to have said that here too: what an absolute disgrace that is; what an absolute shame that such things happen. I am now getting ahead of what I am about to say about this, but the Netherlands too will do everything in its power to make those who contribute to it answer for it. Mr. Chairman. We also see a Ukrainian people who are still fighting manfully, and who are doing everything they can to defend their own country. We see a president and a government leading the people in battle. I find that very impressive. I have regular contact with my Ukrainian colleague myself. So does the Prime Minister. In addition, of course, we see the diplomatic trajectory. At least we are seeing some encouraging developments at the United Nations. There is a resolution that is widely supported: by no less than 141 countries that are all calling on Russia to stop violence. And there is a group of 35 countries that have at least not been on Russia's side. And about that 5... well, there's a lot to say about that, and I'm about to. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about accountability. For the cabinet, it is really clear that, through the evidence bank that we insist on, we will also bet on accountability in full width. We can do that through the UN and through the ICC, but we really want to do that, together with many like-minded people. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, there is humanitarian aid. I'll tell you more about that in a minute. If that is all right, Mr President, I would like to remind you briefly of the fact that not only the cabinet, but very widely in society, is looking at what we can do with each other in this area. Honestly, I find that heart-warming in this valley of tears. I understand that many have been active themselves, even last Monday during the action of Giro555. I was traveling myself then, but I find it heartwarming to see how many Dutch people participate in that action, how broad and together they are moving in the Chamber and what Dutch people are willing to pull out of the closet. I refer to the collection of items and, in my opinion, Mr Ceder referred to the taking of people himself. The cabinet will continue to provide humanitarian support. We will continue with economic support. We will continue with the sanctions and we will continue with the arms supplies where they are appropriate and possible. We know ourselves in very, very good company. Mr. Chairman. I'm about to start with block one, diplomacy. Then there are two, sanctions, and three, the military-political and nuclear. In addition, I'm going to talk about the non-military nuclear. Fourthly, I do it humanitarianly, and fifthly, I still have a richly damaged category of others. The Minister for Defence, of course, deals with all the aspects that really have to do with the military. That's a lot, too. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the international diplomatic. I will also say a few things about accountability. The question asked by Mr Eppink, Mrs Piri and Mr Van Dijk is: what is the status of the peace talks and how does the Netherlands view them? I would like to start by repeating what I have said before. On the one hand, I think it is absolutely right that we should support Ukraine as much as possible, that we should focus on sanctions, arms supplies and everything that goes with strong disapproval and that we should give our hands and feet to that disapproval. At the same time, we know that every conflict that the world has ever seen ends up in a cease-fire in all kinds of different forms. So you should also use that diplomatic channel, especially when you see how terrible the consequences are for the civilian population. So that's what the Netherlands is committed to. That is what the whole European community is committed to. I would like to say that the whole Western community is committed to this. But there is one thing I would like to say. I believe that we should support Ukraine in order to prevent them from being blackmailed to the negotiating table at any time. So conversations are good, but under conditions that can also be borne by Ukraine. The expectations of today's talks were low. Mrs Piri and, in my view, Mr Van Dijk asked for that. At least that part came true. I've been in touch with my colleague through the app for a short time. That doesn't all lend itself to sharing here. But my observation is that Ukraine wants to take advantage of this every time that there is a real opportunity, and that it wants to see whether talks, talks and negotiations can bring an end to the conflict. Again, but also on their terms. Mr Eppink asked whether there was any real prospect of an agreement. There isn't. There have been several calls. So far, expectations have been always low and, unfortunately, the conversations have been very low. Given how the cards are, I have no choice but to look at the Russians again. Because they're in a place where they don't have to be at all. They make all kinds of demands there that are in no way reasonable. I think it is good that Ukraine continues to go there. I hope that's what they're going to do. But when we reach acceptable agreements there, it is very difficult to say. That will also be seen in the light of what happens naturally on the ground. Mrs Piri asked whether it was true that Mr Putin had abandoned the demand for regime change. To be honest, that's hard to describe. You'll receive several messages via international media. Sometimes something is also read in which in this case a Kremlin spokesperson suddenly no longer uses terminology. Then you wonder, is that off the table? The honest answer is, of course, that we do not know. Moreover, we know from the past six months that Putin is not too bad to say a and then do b. He has also said several times that he was not after a military conflict, without further specifying what those 170,000 troops were doing there. Of course, that's where he totally cheated. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about a topic that he and Mrs Mulder also asked about last time: the European Security Council. If this crisis shows anything, then it is that the European partners must be able to make a fist together. You can increasingly see that we in Europe are on two feet: on the NATO leg and on the EU leg. NATO is, of course, really about the military. But to an increasing extent, at least with regard to these sanctions, the EU has so far managed very well to stand together on that geopolitical leg, although that leg is still a bit uncomfortable and much remains to be done in this area. Mr Sjoerdsma knows my commitment to such a European Security Council. But I have also pointed out before that it is not the case that all 27 Member States are cheering behind me when I put that idea back on the table. I also agree with Mr Sjoerdsma, who said that a diplomatic solution is ultimately the only way out. He also asked: are appointments with Putin possible? That is a very fair question. We don't know. We really have to wait and see. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma and others referred to China. They asked how China behaves in the conflict: to what extent does China reject the conflict, or indeed not? Let's be honest. I find it uncomfortable at all that there is a group of 35 countries, who have said that they remain on the fence and do not recognize colour. As far as I am talking to these countries, I am, of course, trying to speak to some of them, either personally or officially, I am saying that this is about more than Ukraine. This is, of course, primarily about Ukraine, but also about how the world community treats each other, what standards you find acceptable and unacceptable. In this type of conversation, I often ask how countries look at sovereignty and respect each other's borders. Most countries generally agree on this. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can add something. On the one hand, the mission is that we should be responsible for the Netherlands in particular, but together with the allies, we should ensure that we guard the soft underbelly of those 141 countries and seek very active diplomatic contact with that 141 group. Why? Because it may be tempting for some of those countries to leave that group again in the future. Not everyone is as tight as the Canadians, the Americans, the British and us. On the other hand, we need to see if we can't actively approach and edit that group of 35 countries, in order to convince them of a different position. Then you've got five left. In the short term, I do not have the illusion that I can move them to a different position, because we all know which group of countries is in it. But there is a great deal of work in the area of 141 and 35 countries. And that would be the last piece of my reply towards Mr Sjoerdsma, which also goes in the direction of China, because I find it uncomfortable that one does not speak much more explicitly. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Van der Lee asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u120	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 and then by Mr Brekelmans, I think. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u121	Then maybe it was a sham move.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u122	It could have been. It could have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u123	I share that inconvenience, but I might want to go a little further. I also increasingly see a silent accomplice in China. The way in which China behaves and implicitly approves what Russia is doing, but also the fact that China, even after this war situation, says that the relationship between Russia and China is in fact unbreakable, I think we are not only asking for a short-term reaction, the Minister says that he is trying to loosen the countries a little bit, but also for a longer-term analysis. What does it mean if this Russia-China axis is not just about this war, but also about the longer term trying to disrupt the world order, which we think is important? I would also like to hear from this Minister what we are going to try to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u124	I have discussed it with many colleagues in Europe and also with my colleague in America, but one of the things is that we should also seek dialogue with China on this issue, although that is not easy. China also claims to consider certain issues to be important, namely sovereignty, territorial integrity and no interference in internal affairs. This is often the Chinese repertoire that we hear when we discuss matters within China. We have to report that if you think that's what you're doing, you'll find some of this. So that's one of the things we have to try. The extent to which there is a Chinese-Russian axis in the longer term is difficult to provide. It is certainly true that they share certain interests and perspectives. One of these is fundamental criticism of the post-war world order, which we are very much in favour of. Both countries are strongly critical of liberal democracy, of the type of human rights policy we advocate and of the international institutions, which, on the contrary, we attach great importance to. In those respects, they are united. They are also united in many respects in their aversion to the United States and to a lesser extent to Europe. At the same time, they are not automatically partners in everything. They have also had their conflicts in the past. They are also of different sizes. Russia is, of course, the world's second most powerful country in the military field. But China has an economy that, I believe, is seven or eight times the size of Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u125	Perhaps we should take that up again later, because I fear that the long-term consequences will also be felt in the short term. Maybe I can zoom in on the situation now, because I do see a dangerous alliance emerging, for example on the so-called biological facilities that would exist in Ukraine. Both Russia and China claim that there are and that they were put there by the Americans. Does the Minister share my concern that this story can be a bit of a false context for the deployment of Russian weapons, as they have done before, in Syria, but also on the European continent? If the Minister shares this concern, what are we doing from the Netherlands, the European Union and the United States to make it clear to the Russians and also the Chinese that such an effort can count on very serious counter-measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u126	I think that you should at least take into account the significant chance that this type of noise, which is, by the way, primarily from Russia, is intended to be used later to justify certain actions. We have seen this, for example, in the total, but also completely misplaced accusation that genocide would take place in eastern Ukraine. This question was addressed by intelligence services regarding Russia's accusation that Ukraine would have tried to develop nuclear weapons. At least I've never found that out, but you're wondering: is that creating a pretext for possible misery? One of the things you then have to do is to break up police jargon: the exposing, naming and indicating what you think. There is no misunderstanding in this Chamber about it, I believe, that in the strongest possible terms we distance ourselves from, of course, nuclear threats and rhetoric, but also from threatening, let alone using, biological or chemical weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u127	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van Houwelingen, from the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u128	It's good to hear that the Secretary of State regards sovereignty as very important. My question to the Minister is as follows. I can imagine that in those talks with countries that do not necessarily want to condemn Russia, he will be told: you, the West, the Netherlands, have continuously conducted regime changes in recent years, in all kinds of countries, including Libya and Syria; in other words, what is your right to speak? Does the Minister ever hear that? If so, what is his answer? What is the moral position he can still take?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u129	The answer to the first question is no. That brings me to a question from Mrs Mulder and Mr Van der Lee as to whether we are also prepared to offer bilateral financial support to Moldova. That is a very fair question. I also had contact today with Mr Popescu, my colleague from Moldova. Mr Van der Lee knows that the Prime Minister and I have been there recently. I must say that I am very impressed by the President and the Foreign Minister and what a new generation of politicians are trying to do there under extremely difficult circumstances. It takes a bit too far to walk into all these side streets now, but I can imagine that people are looking at the Netherlands and thinking: I might be able to have Probleme haben. What one is struggling with is really of a completely different order. This has also been the reason why Europe, as well as the Netherlands, have allocated money to help in a number of areas. Aids went that way last week and we are trying to do more, including in the area of cyber and in the longer term also in the area of the rule of law. As far as I'm concerned, we should try to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u130	I am glad to hear that contacts with Mr Popescu are good, but he probably also told you that there is a need for something more than aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u131	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u132	It is the poorest country and it is already catching 130,000 refugees. When the attack on Odessa starts, we know that there's probably gonna be a lot more of that. In addition, Mr Popescu probably also said that they should spend USD 1 million a day on the reception of refugees and that Moldova's annual budget will be through in three months' time. My request is therefore whether you are prepared to provide bilateral financial assistance to Moldova.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u133	We have done a number of things, but perhaps it would be a good idea if I put the whole thing on record for a moment, for what we did last week, for what we are doing and for what is coming out of the European Union at the moment. Then so does the Chamber. To be honest, that is quite decent, but Mrs Piri is right: the problems are enormous there. Then I'm going to mention two things. The first is that if you convert the refugees per capita and compare them with the Netherlands or Germany, in the case of the Netherlands, it runs very quickly in the many tens of thousands. I believe that, when we tried to calculate it for Germany, Popescu and I were able to calculate it for Germany, which is always easy because of the size of the numbers and the free round numbers, and we were able to calculate between 1 and 2 million. That's huge. Many of the refugees are moving on, but that country needs help in doing so. So the cabinet is really willing to keep looking at that. By the way, he said that more than half of the refugees are actually passing through and eventually trying to find a place to stay elsewhere. The second point is the following. I'm going to call that, Mr President, and then I'm going to leave the Moldovan side street for the rest. When we were there, the President or the Foreign Minister told me that the energy bill had risen by a factor of five, because there is also a Russian strangulation there when it comes to the energy bill. Then when you realize how relatively large the cost of the energy bill is on a small stock exchange, you know, when that time five goes, that a lot of households have a life-size problem. That is of a completely different order from what it is like with us. We know that it is also very problematic for poorer families. That justifies keeping this on the agenda. I admit to Mrs Piri that I will put on paper what we do in the different categories. Then I try to give it the European perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u134	Thank you for the Minister's explanation. I had also mentioned Transnistria. Can the Minister say anything about that, or else deepen it a little more in the letter? Are there any changes in this area? Are there any additional security risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u135	I would like to write the letter sec to give the Chamber an overview of what we are doing specifically in the area of aid to Moldova. The second part I think I can solve here with Mr Van der Lee. My impression, based on the contacts I have, is that people are still sitting there with that very uncomfortable situation of a few thousand Russian soldiers in Transnistria. At the same time, there is no impression that these troops are moving towards the northeast or the southwest. Whether that will change in the long run is not going to be estimated now. But my impression is not, although that is never certain, that there has been an additional safety problem. By the way, that could also change when Odessa is taken. That's only a kilometer or 40-50 from the southernmost tip of Moldova.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u136	I welcome this commitment to Mrs Piri. I would like that letter before the next Foreign Affairs Council. It's next Thursday. Then we can see if there is any more needed, if we would find that with each other. Will the Minister undertake to do so? Once again, I am very grateful that there really is an eye for the situation in this country, because I can imagine that they would rather have our problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u137	I would like to say that to Mrs Mulder. By the way, in the category "Merce of Honor": Mrs Mulder, Mrs Piri and Mr Van der Lee asked all three of them. Of course, I always make the commitment to the Chamber. I'm gonna get this straight, because every letter, as the Chamber knows, takes a lot of time and energy and other things have to be done. I'm gonna get this straight. Then the Chamber will find some of that. Mr Brekelmans asked about Canada, the WTO and the Most Favoured Nation status. The Minister for BHOS is working on this. The EU is currently negotiating a statement in the WTO with Geneva, together with our allies. So that's what we'll get back to. Mr Kuzu and Mrs Mulder asked about the evidence bank. There was also a question from Mr Kuzu about the motion he once tabled together with Mr Sjoerdsma. Several bodies are now working on this. The ICC has begun an investigation. The OHCHR has staff in Ukraine who have started evidence collection. The Netherlands has said that I myself did so last week in Geneva to support it with a million to ensure that this can happen. That is crucial, because we all know that in such a chaotic way as a war, it can be very good that proof that you can now easily pick at a later moment can no longer be found at all, because witnesses have become untraceable or things are simply gone. So that's what we're working on. It will be a long-term issue, but it will be very worthwhile, I say in the direction of Mr Kuzu. He'll agree with me. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga asked about anti-Russian sentiments in the Netherlands and how that relates to the motion. I would like to say one thing about this to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, that is about normal Russians in the Netherlands being harassed. I realise that this also happens to people of Belarusian nationality. I would really like to say here that this does not give a pass to the whole thing, but also to the whole thing. It is scandalous to harass people solely on the basis of their nationality. Russians who are here are very often not opposed to the regime at all. At all, we're better than that. We are the country with a high rule of law. We judge individuals by what they do, right or wrong. I very much hope that the solidarity that we see in the Netherlands in full width also means that we are dealing with people who, as a rule, strongly reject what is happening there. At least I and the cabinet would be very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u138	I am extremely pleased with this statement of support from the Minister to the people, because both the Russians and the Ukrainians do not want this war at all. It's often just a little war play by 50-plus kids, who like to fight with each other, but it's always the people themselves. I am very grateful to the Minister for doing so. While I am standing here, I would also like to ask him about the motion I tabled last time on collateral damage. The Minister was very kind and gave the motion judgment Chamber. That's when she was hired. Of course, we are not supposed to see the collateral damage mapped out next year. I would like to ask the Minister if anything has happened to it, because there is a limit to the collateral damage that we can deal with. The Prime Minister said at the time: it's about the principle, it doesn't matter and we'll all pay for it. But of course it isn't. There's a limit to that. That's why it's good to put those scenarios in the picture. So I ask the Minister whether he has already referred this to the Minister of EZK and whether that collateral damage has been identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u139	Let me just say a few words about the introduction. It is important to clarify this. Mr Van Haga added: the Russian people. That is what the Prime Minister and I have always said: we have no conflict with the Russian people. Moreover, we have always said that the very strong sanctions that we have decided on can have an impact on the Russian population as well. This is an immediate consequence of this type of sanction package. So we've done that very consciously, even though we're not out to hit the population. My comment was specifically about people with Russian nationality and Belarusian nationality in the Netherlands. We have all heard horrible stories about people being called names and spit on. That's un-Dutch, we shouldn't do that. That's what my comment was about. The mapping of collateral damage is under way. Of course, I am very gilded to be able to come back to the Chamber within ten days, but then I did not immediately take the answer to Mr Van Haga's question under my arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u140	First of all... Maybe we can put a deadline on that? Of course, we do not know when this war will end, but perhaps in a few weeks' time, before we impose further sanctions, we will be able to put in place an oil and gas boycott or that sort of thing, at least when it will come. Secondly, I would like to say a few words about the first point. BVNL really does not agree with those sanctions, because those sanctions........................................................................................................................................................................................................ The average in power is just laughing at these sanctions. So they miss their goal, but well, we may differ on that. In any case, I am pleased that we agree that the Russians and the Belarusians living in the Netherlands should not be discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u141	There was a question about the deadline for carrying out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u142	I'll just have to pick it up at the economic triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u143	Can you come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u144	Maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u145	And if not in writing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u146	Otherwise, we will inform the Chamber. Mr Sjoerdsma asked if I would again insist on abolishing the veto in the EU. That was specifically about matters such as sanctions, I believe Mr Sjoerdsma understood. Absolutely. That has gone very well now. No one jumped out of the boat. But that, of course, is not a guarantee for the future, so we will continue to do so. Mr Sjoerdsma also had a question about supporting civil society and the free media in Russia. Very much so. We do this through our posts, through the Human Rights Fund and through organisations that we co-finance, such as Free Press Unlimited. That is what we are doing in Russia's neighbouring countries. What struck me and what I find interesting is that in some of the surrounding countries they are also thinking of twenty-first century equivalents of what was once Radio Free Europe, which was broadcast from West Germany, with free news.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u147	It's great to hear from the Minister about the freedom of the press. What does the Minister think about Russia Today and Sputnik being banned in the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u148	I have always said that we are all very much in favour of free news, but at the same time there is also a problem in the field of fake news. The balance between them is very complicated. As a rule, this balance will always go to free news gathering, precisely because you must also be able to hear unpleasant opinions in the public and political debate. That happens sometimes in the Lower House. At the same time, I believe that the considerations made by the Commission in this case are fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u149	Does the Minister hear what he's saying? He says that we must also be able to hear unpleasant opinions and that is why we are banning broadcasting. So you obviously know what the truth is and you decide that for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u150	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u151	Excuse me. Through the chairman. The Minister obviously knows what the truth is and can then decide through the European Union: let us ban those and those channels. Isn't the Minister doing exactly what Russia is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u152	Mr President, I refer Mr Van Houwelingen to my previous reply. Mr Ceder asked if we were prepared to invite countries in The Hague to talk about the long-term vision and the protection of the international legal order. In itself, we are certainly prepared to do so, but there are already many ongoing initiatives that I would like to join. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to my second block. It's about sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u153	Firstly, Mr Van der Lee and then Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u154	I would like to ask another question about the diplomatic process. I hope that, in the short term, agreements will be reached on corridors that are safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u155	I have it in a separate folder, in the fourth block. But I'd love to figure it out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u156	Maybe it's okay if you come back to that later. Mr Van der Lee agrees. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u157	The Minister rightly points out the importance of free news gathering. He referred to a number of programmes already financed by the Foreign Office and by other means. I would like to ask him whether, as everything is being reviewed today and revisited in the extremely urgent context of today, there is a need for shifts. I mean that support for free news gathering in Russia is becoming increasingly difficult and urgent. The same applies, in a sense, to Ukraine itself. You must ensure that the press can be present in Ukraine to report on what happened there. This is crucial, also for our own judgment, and hopefully someday for responsibility. I would ask him, if not now, to see what more we can do at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u158	I'd like to be willing to do that on my own. I see that problem. We all read how the image of the majority of the Russians is determined by what they get to see through state television. They actually don't have other sources and what that means for the way they look at the world. And you can't blame them for that. I'd like to look at that, but also be a little careful to immediately promise what we'll do extra, also because things that you do extra often come at the expense of something else. I would like to make that assessment carefully...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u159	Thank you. Oh, sorry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u160	You're in charge of the order, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u161	I'm actually trying to compress it a little bit. Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u162	The Minister just answered my question as to whether it would not be wise to look at the long term and whether the Netherlands could facilitate it, for example with a conference in The Hague in the foreseeable future. The minister said he prefers to join ongoing initiatives. I wonder what long-term initiatives he is referring to. Can he take us in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u163	Of course, there are all kinds of agencies constantly working on the various aspects of the problems: the humanitarian and the search for a possible negotiated solution. The entire accountability section also runs through the UN and the ICC. I understand Mr Ceder's question in such a way that he asks if there are things you can do that are potentially effective and whether you should add things. I will no doubt continue to discuss this with colleagues, including in The Hague. I am just not sure whether a decision by the Netherlands to take a number of countries to The Hague is the most effective way. Of course it has symbolism and it's not insignificant in this kind of thing, but I don't want to stick to it in advance. I'm someone who really wants to look at what really works to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u164	I hear what the Minister says. The Minister is referring to a long-term view of the conflict, while I am referring to a long-term view of how we are going to shape the international legal order. I see that it beeps and cracks with regard to the EU, NATO, the UN when there are escalations and conflicts. This calls for a reorientation and a rethinking of how we can avoid going back into such a situation in the future. We thought this would never happen again with the current position of the panels. Yet we are in this situation. So my question is specifically about the long-term vision of the international legal order. I believe that the Netherlands can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u165	Sure. On the long term and the perspective of the cabinet, the policy letter that arrived here last Tuesday also contains a number of points. You can see that the whole international order, including the international legal order, is under pressure. As far as I am concerned, it is very worthwhile to defend and strengthen it, together with similar countries. I would add that the whole period since the war has given us a framework, especially when you look at the UN and the UN Security Council, but that is a far from perfect institution. Look at each of the major conflicts that the world has known. They have almost always led to a stalemate in the UN Security Council and thus also in the capacity of the international community to act. Actually, there's only one exception. That is the Korean war, because at that time Russia decided not to participate for a while. That's the only time that that situation could be broken. I would like to study further, but at the same time I am careful to put on too big pants about what the Netherlands can do, on top of what we are already taking initiatives. To be honest, there are a lot of them, as mentioned in the policy letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u166	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u167	I have some criticism about the length of the first block, so it is good that the second, third, fourth and fifth blocks are all shorter. The sanctions. Mr Ceder asked what sanctions have now been imposed. I want to do two things. I would like to make a relatively brief summary, because I can imagine that question coming back to the Chamber. I'll take it with me in the play I'm trying to have in the Chamber next Thursday. Then everyone can just take a look at that list. What else is in the toolbox? Maybe I have to say before that it is really a package that hardly knows its equal. What's left in the toolbox are the things we hear on the news. Each time more oligarchs are added. Every time we watch how we hit the immediate surroundings of those oligarchs, like family members. The second is that we see what we can do about international shipping. This is a sensitive subject for the Netherlands. At the same time, the Minister of IenW and I have said that we are prepared to look at it, but that you must do it in a European context, because otherwise there is no point. My suspicion is that the discussion on SWIFT will also continue. Those are the biggest and most important chunks. I'll be right back on the energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u168	I hear the Minister talking about sanctions and the fact that they are mainly aimed at the oligarchs and people in their immediate vicinity. I wonder what that looks like. What am I supposed to do with that? Do we have a list of oligarchs and their children, children-in-law and grandchildren? Apparently we already had that list, because I really can't imagine that we'll have that kind of information in a row in a few weeks, with all due respect for the efficiency of this house. I'd still like to know something about how that works. How do we target? What do we need to know about some people to make them eligible for these sanctions? What are we doing in this context in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u169	Mrs Simons also asked what the Chamber is doing in this area. I'm not sure, because that's what the Chamber is about. I assume, however, that the Chamber is not carrying out an independent inquiry into this matter. Neither does the State Department. They are European lists and individuals are constantly being added to them. Research is carried out at European level, it agrees with the various Member States and then adds people to the list. That is why it can also be explained that each subsequent package will be extended, because more people will be targeted. The second is how you deal with family members. That's a sensitive point. Why? Precisely because of what I said earlier, we have the rule of law on a very high priority. So we also believe that children or family members are a priori not responsible for those who have done something wrong. That's why it's complicated how to shape that exactly. The Commission is also looking at this. I don't have a list of them myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u170	I fully understand the fact that we have a Commission looking at this. I've been struggling with this for a few days, but I can't escape naming it anyway. In the local newspaper of the village where I live, articles about someone who seems to have very close links with Mr Putin, through his daughter, appear in the last few days. This gives rise to a lot of unrest in the picturesque village, in the middle of Amsterdam, where I live. So I'm very curious what that means. The Hague talks about sanctions and about people around Mr Putin. And then I drive home and I see a city council or a village board struggling with what it can or can't do. So that's why I'm asking, what does that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u171	It looks like I just described it. The Commission is trying to map it. It is not just a committee, it is the European Commission. Helped by civil servants, it charts the people who deserve this predicate. My assessment is that this has mainly started at the top, because especially those with a capacity that runs into the billions are usually quite easy to trace. Each time, people are added to it. The second category, which of course has been taken very seriously, are those who make decisions in Russia and who are therefore directly responsible for this. Think of the Duma members and think of members of the government and people there in the coterie of President Putin. I think that these two categories are highly justifiable. I also welcome the fact that the Commission is doing this and is examining it carefully. I would find it complicated myself, at least from my ministry, to do specific work or to say that you need to get rid of it. My impression is that the process has its course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u172	In fact, I hear the Minister say that everything is in the hands of the European Commission. He investigates, he makes a list and keeps the lists. I assume then that it will also take shape as to what sanctions it is at what point in time. In the Netherlands, therefore, we are not actively dealing with those people on the Zuidas. We often talk about the Zuidas, but there are a lot of places in the Netherlands where you can easily collect real estate, and that sort of thing. When I hear the Minister like that, we do not really do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u173	No, that's two different things. The first point is that the list as we draw up it is drawn up by the European Commission. I believe that we have seen further additions to this in the last 24 hours. These are the oligarchs, some of which can be found literally with their ships in the newspaper, because such a ship is being chained up in Italy or London. Last Monday, the cabinet said that it is also obvious to see whether and, if so, how our own financial system plays a role in this. I have indicated this myself, and I believe that the Prime Minister has indicated the same thing. This was also the subject of Mr Van Dijk's question. I indicated at that time that I fully understand this question from the Chamber. I'd like to stay in that as well. It is, however, a specific question in the area of finance. The Minister of Finance, and I believe the Secretary of State for Finance, has indicated that they are going to do so and that they are going to look in particular at the trust sector. Moreover, it has had the special attention of this Chamber for some time now, as I know from a previous capacity. But that's another type of problem with a different type of solution. For that, I really have to refer to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u174	It's not another type of problem, it's a problem that the Minister, if I understand him correctly, actually says: we don't do anything about it and I don't know anything about it. We have a European list. Then we have... That's what you get when you get so many words... I think the answer is simple: the European Commission is working on this and in the Netherlands we are looking at financial systems. I still don't know what we're doing in the Netherlands. What are we doing on that Zuidas? At what point do we say like the Netherlands: this is on our territory, this is happening here, and here we intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u175	I'm gonna try one more time. The first point is that we stick to the list of oligarchs provided by the European Commission, so that when Europe has them in its sights, we have them in our sights. In addition, the Chamber said, and the Cabinet said: given the situation and the concerns that exist about our own financial system, it is important that we look at our own financial system. The label "Zuidas" is often placed there. You may wonder if that's entirely right, but I'll tell you this separately. Then it is particularly about the trust sector, because trust offices sometimes play a role in concealing parties behind it. That is a widely shared wish in this Chamber. The cabinet has said that we want to look at this too. And that is what I am saying: what is happening and what is happening with regard to these measures and the research that is going on is really up to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u176	Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u177	I am still surprised that the Netherlands seems to be transferring a great deal to Brussels and says: let the European Commission hunt those oligarchs. If they are in the Netherlands, is it absolutely clear that the Dutch Government can also play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u178	I think it is logical that you should try to introduce these sanctions towards oligarchs, because otherwise you would have had 27 different Member States, with one Member State introducing a penalty and the other Member State not. Then you also organize all kinds of excuses in what is a common market. That is already a problem at all, because one of the things I am concerned about is sanction leakage, not so much within the European Union, but through neighbouring countries that ultimately say either a return service or because of pressure: we are helping to circumvent these sanctions. We've seen that before with Iraq and Iran. So I think it is really wise that we should do this together with the European Union. I also think that is by far the most effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u179	I can very well imagine that you are coordinating it at European level. Sure. Because you shouldn't have Belgium saying "come and join us" if they're not allowed to be in the Netherlands. But then, of course, we know, like no other, what happens on the Zuidas, for example. I note that we are failing in the capacity of supervision. Then it's also about the trust offices, next to the oligarchs. Shouldn't you strengthen that much more so that we not only impose sanctions, but also respect them? Does the Minister see a weakness in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u180	I really think that's up to the Finance Minister, otherwise I'm gonna confuse my previous and current job. I wouldn't like that. There has been a longer discussion with the Chamber about the vulnerabilities in the trust sector. There is also a longer discussion with the Chamber about the intensity of the supervision of De Nederlandsche Bank. But I do not think that I should comment on that point or make a commitment. I think that is really up to the Minister of Finance. I would like to pass on the comments. I know that the Minister of Finance is working on this and is also discussing it with the Chamber or wants to do so. She's also looking at measures. These aren't things I can promise here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u181	That is difficult, because the Minister is discussing the issue of sanctions. So I ask questions about sanctions and then the Minister says "you should discuss this with the Minister of Finance," but he is not here. I'm talking to the government. Anyway, I'd appreciate it if you'd pass it along. This morning or this afternoon, I saw the Minister of Finance say: "I want to tackle the trust offices. I want to ban the trust offices that do business with the Russians. If necessary, I want to do this nationally, so nationally, if this is not possible in Europe."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u182	But your question to this minister is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u183	I urge the cabinet not only to tackle trust offices, but also to use them on capacity, to make real progress on compliance with sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u184	That sounds as if Mr Van Dijk has now asked me three times a question to which he had already read the answer in the newspaper this morning. He actually already knew and he had heard the Minister of Finance say it. In doing so, he acknowledges that it is also a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u185	Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u186	No, but this is lame. This is lame. I am asking a question about sanctions, because the Minister deals with sanctions. Then he says, "You'll have to go to the Treasury."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u187	No, it's different. The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs has full responsibility for sanctions. The specific questions about how to deal with the most effective issues in a particular sector lie with the different departmental departments. Moreover, the Minister for Finance has already said, in consultation with the Chamber, that I want to do something about this; I am going after it. It deals specifically with the trust sector. So I think it is also obvious that in the dialogue she has with De Nederlandsche Bank, she is trying to determine what is effective in this regard. I'm not gonna take an inch off that. Only, at the same time, I think that I should say 'yes, add capacity' to Mr Van Dijk's question as to whether there should be more capacity, not on her behalf, without having seen any research on it. I find that about her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u188	All the way to the end. I would like to draw your attention to Mr Sjoerdsma's amendment. That was put before the Foreign Affairs budget last year to use precisely this, so as to create some sort of sanction unit. That was addressed to the State Department. In my view, this Minister, perhaps in the second term, should give us some thought to the capacity we need now, in this particular situation, in this war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u189	I really need to refer to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u190	I'm going to ask the next question anyway, so we don't work too close together. This morning we had a debate with the Minister of Finance. This was discussed at length. A letter has been promised stating how the Netherlands is handling this now. I'll stand up for you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u191	I hear it, I hear it; I'm enjoying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u192	The debate was not just about how things are going to work out and how much money is being locked up. It has also been said that if the European Union does not intervene in the trust sector within three weeks, the emergency legislation that the Netherlands is already preparing will be submitted to the Chamber. That was new and rightful, and I'm happy about it, too. We'll get that letter in a few days. I understand that this affects all aspects of our work at the moment, but let us avoid further confusion in the Chamber. This is running and we're getting that information. I am also curious about the outcome, but I would like to have mentioned this. I have already mentioned this in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u193	Yes, this is a clear call. The Minister continues. It's also a waste of your interruption, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u194	I need more Van der Leetjes, as it turns out. I am not going to spoil the remarks that I hear from the Chamber and which are made outside the microphone with a bad answer. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to Mr Dassen. He asked about the impact on Russia. It's obvious. The value of the rouble has fallen by 30%. The Russian central bank raises interest rates to 20%. International reserves are largely frozen. And now I'm not talking about shareholder value that's evaporated, stock that's being dumped and companies that are themselves and proactively leaving Russia. So the damage there is great, and it is my estimate that that damage will also increase further. Several questions have been asked in the energy category. Some, for example Mr Van Haga, ask: can we promise that we will never go along with the boycotting of Russian gas? Contributions from others I have already understood as: do so as quickly as possible. In fact, the cabinet has always said the following. One. We are willing to weigh everything in our own right. Two. It is essential that we maintain European unity, because otherwise we will do exactly what is preferred in Moscow, namely to create European divisions. Three. If you consider these two principles to be important, then you have to look at what is effective and what the consequences are for specific Member States. I suspect that Mr Jetten will have also pointed out the energy dependence on Russia of Member States in Eastern Europe in particular. Those states involve 80%, 90% of their gas from Russia. It would then be logical for them to have great difficulty scaling down Russian gas tomorrow. I think that is a explanatory position. That would also be my answer to Mr Brekelmans on his question on oil. I understand that question very well, and I also understand that question remains on the table. The Netherlands also wants to look at everything, and at the same time the repercussions are potentially enormous for European Member States. I think it is really essential that we work together on this. That is why, I believe, Mr Jetten has spoken along the same lines as the lines I am now presenting here. Mr Stoffer asked about SWIFT. I think he asked two questions about that. Are we going to apply that to the Belarusian banks? I said earlier that, given what is happening in Belarus and given the way in which Russia is being helped, you would actually want to apply the Russian package to Belarus. I think there was broad support for this in the Chamber. That will therefore also be the Dutch commitment. I'm guessing this discussion about SWIFT is gonna go on. Again, the quest is always to ensure that this does not immediately have all kinds of dramatic consequences for the energy economy. However, the Netherlands is in the forward line, in good Netherlands. Mr De Roon asks whether I have had the cost of an oil boycott passed on. It says here on my paper that I can state that I fully understand the question and that I can refer further to Mr Jetten. That's what I'm doing here. Mr Ceder asked whether the sanctions would continue to apply if Russia wins. Those sanctions were imposed because of the aggression and occupation. I have not yet met anyone who has a vague intention of saying goodbye to it again. Nor do I suspect that this will happen in the short term. I very much hope that we can end the conflict and end up in other waters. But as long as that does not happen, I will at least oppose the lifting of sanctions. Mr Brekelmans asked for the closure of the Horizon 2020 projects. I checked it specifically. These projects are all on hold. There's no money transferred to it either. I think I have just answered Mr Sjoerdsma's question about the mailboxes. With regard to his question about the Magnitsky Act, I would like to say in his direction that we will continue to do so. I must point out that in the past there was no majority in favour of adding this to the anti-corruption framework. He knows that, I think. But I'm still committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u195	Are you at the end of the issue of sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u196	Yes, I'm going through it for a while, Mr President, but I think I've had everything in terms of sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u197	I shall then give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD and then to Mr Van der Lee and Mr Sjoerdsma. Given the time available, I would ask Members to keep the interruptions short, because we also have another minister. I would therefore like to ask a brief question or comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u198	Thank you for all the answers on sanctions. My question is this. Now is the bottomline that we say: we think this current sanction package is strong enough, so the Dutch commitment is to first see what the impact will be on the Russian economy? Or does the Minister say that we will continue to actively look for ways to increase the pressure even further and that the Netherlands will continue to advocate further expansion of the package and wider sanctions in all the areas he has just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u199	It's actually a combination of a few things. It is indeed that first, in the sense that we see what the effect is. That effect is very strong. The second thing we want is to further develop new sanctions in order to keep the pressure on. The third is to focus on European unity in the meantime on the issues we are working on. Actually, we're always on the forward leaning side. We have not said on any file that we do not want to participate, even on files that have major repercussions for ourselves, such as that of the port. We think it's crucial that everyone can help them. That will remain the stakes. My suspicion is that, as the misery continues and as so much horror so visibly enters us all, the discussion about sanctions and more sanctions will continue. As far as I am concerned, that is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u200	Thank you for this clear answer. I had one more question about sanctions in the oil and gas sector. I heard the Minister say, for example, that he finds a boycott of technology exports in this area difficult, because that may have repercussions for some countries dependent on Russia's oil. Is it possible to look at the type of payments we make? Because it's uncomfortable that we transfer millions to Russia every day. In the past, we have also said that Russia does not receive foreign currency for this, but it remains in an account in the West. This allows Russia to buy things in the West, but it cannot use Russia to finance, for example, its own army. These types of constructions have been used in the past. Could we still look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u201	I find that an interesting thought. That would require a more precise answer. If Mr Brekelmans agrees, I am going to pass that on to Mr Jetten. He has a debate with the Chamber on this very subject in the next ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u202	At that last point, however. I have asked the necessary questions about this in my term. The failure to break European unity is very important. At the same time, we recognise that many Member States are unable to eliminate their dependence on Russia so quickly. That's not just about gas. It's also about oil. It's also about uranium. It's also about coal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u203	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u204	The question to the Minister is: when it comes to our Dutch energy imports in the Netherlands, why can't a Member State that wants to take a step further not be allowed to take that step without having to be at the expense of other Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u205	I believe that the question lies with the Member States, if I can understand Mr Van der Lee in this way, I agree with him to see how you can reduce your energy consumption, especially your energy consumption from Russia. That is exactly what Jetten has always said. It looks at: how can you shape the transition as quickly as possible and simply reduce it in a practical sense? I agree with him on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u206	Well, then, sometimes it's a semantic discussion. Energy saving is the best answer, for all kinds of reasons, but that will not be enough. You have to make choices at some point, too. On a weekly basis, ships with coal from Russia are still arriving in Rotterdam. You can get those coals in a lot of other places in the world. The Netherlands can decide for itself, but the question is how this relates to the rules within the common European market. There must be some room for that. That discussion is also a responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is this conversation being held within Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u207	My understanding is the following: I am now going to say what my understanding is, and if I have to restore it in the second term, I am going to do so humbly. My understanding is that Member States can, of course, do the first thing that Mr Van der Lee and I talked about themselves. See what Germany has done recently. That has announced two large LNG terminals. Why? To get rid of Russian energy more quickly. In the same way, Jetten is also in the process of doing so. He also wants to see if you can get off that fast. For me, that is also separate from the sanctioning regime. To be honest, I had the feeling that we already agreed on the first of the three interruptions, but maybe I'll count myself rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u208	There is also another issue, and that is that we have completely privatised security of supply and trade in the energy market. If you want to change something and only choose to save, then you only have a limited impact. If you want to take far-reaching action in the market, you cannot do so as a Member State alone, so the European Union must give space to those Member States that would like to take a step in their own jurisdiction. That space will have to fight the Netherlands, you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u209	I'm going to focus on that in the second term. I know that this is also part of Jetten's discussion with his colleagues. I will come back to that and then I can say something about it, but I think he should explain it more broadly in the debate he is having with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u210	Then Mr. Sjoerdsma. Perhaps it is good to point out that on 22 March there is a committee debate on security of supply of natural gas and 31 March on climate and energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u211	The Minister often says that the Netherlands is forward leaning. That's good, of course. I was wondering whether that sanctioning unit that the Chamber wanted, the inter-departmental sanction unit that would set up Foreign Affairs, was there by now. A small year ago, the Chamber issued a mild order to that effect. I hope we have that capacity now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u212	I really need to take a look at that. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u213	Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u214	In the case of sanctions, we have also discussed possible European flanking policies. I was wondering what's going on with that. This may also be reflected in the letter we are receiving for the next Foreign Affairs Council, but if an answer can be given now, I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u215	Does Mrs Mulder mean accompanying policy for any counter-measures from Russia? What's she talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u216	I asked questions about this in Question Time and in the previous debate. I am referring to the fact that certain sectors are particularly affected by the sanctions that we are taking together; that it does not stick unilaterally with certain sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u217	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u218	Then I can imagine that this is about agricultural entrepreneurs, but it could also be about the maritime sector. Those are important things for me to hear back. They really do not expect full compensation and we cannot give it. We'll all have to bear that pain. But I wonder what can be done, European.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u219	That's clear. Last Monday, on Mrs Mulder's specific question on the agricultural sector, I said that Economic Affairs is looking at this or wider: the quadrilateral is looking at it and will discuss it in a European context, so that runs. Mr President, I am at the third block. It is getting shorter and shorter; that will appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u220	When will anything be reported to us about that? Well, that's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u221	I'll see if I can put a date on that in second term. Mr President, the third block. That was about the political-military, as far as I'm concerned. I'll add the nuclear power plants to that. It started with a question that was still about the no-fly zones. I would like to repeat what I said earlier. It is very difficult at all to say "no" to someone who is in a death struggle, to say to someone like that that we cannot deliver something. At the same time, I think it is sensible that Stoltenberg indicated that NATO should not do so, in order to prevent you from ending up in a direct conflict between NATO and the Russian Federation, with all its repercussions and consequences. So that's really not wise. Mr Van Dijk also asked about our opinion on the no-fly zone. It's not suddenly on the agenda. So that's basically what stayed the same as last week. This also fits perfectly into the story: de-escalating where possible. That's what I just called it. Mr Brekelmans, Mr Kuzu and Mrs Piri asked about the war aircraft exchange. In addition, we simply see what the MPs see: they are talking about this. It seems that there is no question of delivery at the moment. At the same time, when you read the American media about it, you get the idea that it might still be discussed. So I find it very difficult to talk about what these two countries are trying to do bilaterally. What I consider to be very important also affects the Dutch responsibility: we do not have an assessment of what Member States are doing one-on-one. If NATO were to do anything, NATO would supply fighters, then you will really be in completely different waters. So the reservations I have also expressed with regard to the no-fly zone actually apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u222	There is an interruption by Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u223	Yes, Mr President, about the rising tensions between NATO and Russia. If, for example, we look at Russia's expressions about supplying anti-tank guns or anti-aircraft missiles, we know that Russia already sees this as a hostile attitude, as an enemy act. Putin says openly: they are on the side of our enemy. I then wonder how the Minister points out that NATO countries... the Netherlands have supplied Stinger-air missiles. There's a whole list of materials. Germany has delivered, but Belgium, Denmark and France have also done so. Almost all NATO Member States have supplied arms to Ukraine. That's already seen as a hostile act. Then why does the Minister find it difficult to indicate that aircraft, fighter jets, for example, would increase tensions further?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u224	I have indicated that I think it is up to the Member States themselves to decide what they want to deliver. By the way, these were not just NATO countries. It is important to recall that Sweden for the first time since 1939, for the first time since the beginning of the Winter War............................................................................................................................................................................................ Sweden is not a NATO member. Mr Kuzu did not mention that; he is absolutely right. I say this to indicate that much wider is provided by individual countries. At the same time, you want to prevent a direct conflict between NATO and the Russian Federation. By the way, that has always been the pattern in the Cold War. When there were very strong proxy wars, often between the United States on the one hand and Russia on the other. There were very strong weapons, with which war was waged. This did not happen in the last place, for example, in Afghanistan. After the invasion in 1979, America spent many years arming the mujahedien. They fought with American weapons against the Russian army. That invaded there very quickly, but then got it harder and more difficult. I don't mind that pattern. I do see a major objection to an active involvement of NATO, especially when it comes to something like a no-fly zone. Then you simply run a significant chance of a NATO aircraft shooting a Russian plane out of the sky. Then you're really very close to an extremely dangerous escalation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u225	I wonder whether a distinction is made between NATO Member States and individual Member States on the side of Russia. I cannot escape the impression that it is one and the same for Putin. So I don't think that distinction is made at all from the Kremlin. That's one. Secondly, the situation and the way in which the escalation has been achieved at the moment. The Minister gives an example of historical proxy wars. I call Korea and Afghanistan. Surely we do not want to see another proxy war fought in Ukraine? That's one. Two. We don't want to leave that to Putin's whims, do we? We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u226	Our disapproval of what Russia and Putin are doing there, Mr Kuzu and I fully agree. With the comparison with the Cold War, I wanted to point out that the Soviet Union and the United States, not by chance, were very careful at the time that they would not be in a direct conflict with each other, because then you would suddenly have a direct war between the two superpowers. At the same time, they have deployed very widely on weapons and advising countries. Looking back you can find all sorts of things, but that's how it happened back then. That Putin, in his remarks, responds aggressively to everything we do, including sanctions and the Dutch arms supplies, I leave it on his behalf. Then it is important not to forget how this conflict began, namely with 170,000 soldiers on the border who are completely destroying a country, who have no right whatsoever to do so and who simply have to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u227	I share that analysis. I'd like to give you the example of the fighter jets. I would like to know from the Minister, as a representative, as Foreign Minister of an individual Member State, whether he would like to keep the alternative of delivering those fighter jets to Ukraine on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u228	I did not understand anyone in the Dutch cabinet as if we were about to do such a thing. It is clear what we have done. We've been communicating about that before. Furthermore, I do not find it helpful to comment on a discussion between two of our allies on what they may or may not do, precisely because of the great importance of unity. That's what I really think about those allies. Mr. Chairman. I will stay with Mr Kuzu, because he also asked me about cluster munitions. He pointed out to me what I wrote, that it is not forbidden in all cases. That's right. The use of cluster munitions is not prohibited for States that are not parties to the Clustermunciation Convention, to the extent that this is the second thing, and that is important if its use is in accordance with the rules of humanitarian war law. In any case, you're acting in violation of the treaty if you've signed that you're not using it. And if you use it, but not in the way it's intended, then you're also in violation of the treaty. Mrs Piri, Mr Brekelmans and others were quite right to ask about the nuclear situation. Because that's something you, when you read that, worry about big, big things too. I just happened to mention it yesterday with my Greek colleague. The good news is the IAEA is on top of that. This has also been discussed, including this week on that board of the International Atomic Energy Agency. We are also trying to see how we can intervene in a sensible way. I myself think that's the most effective channel. I think that's more effective than pressing directly with the Russians. But there we are talking in full width with parties, because of course everyone sees that the chance of a terrible accident is very, very present. There's no telling what that's gonna do for damage. Mr Brekelmans asked: do we still take into account cyber attacks on Ukraine that could also affect the Netherlands? This situation has been closely monitored by the National Cyber Security Centre since the beginning of the tensions. In the short term, we will take into account new attacks that relate to tensions between Russia and Ukraine. They may also have an impact on the Netherlands, but that still has to be done. But you have to take that into account, given everything that is happening and, of course, given the way in which we ourselves have come up with lists with the whole of the European Union as if we were doing things that do not belong. Mr Brekelmans actually said the same thing in a slightly different way as I said. He asked: shouldn't we avoid having public discussions about things like MiGs? I very much agree with that. Mr Dassen asked how safe these nuclear power stations are. They meet the IAEA safety standards. I would also like to refer him to the answer I just gave. Mr. Chairman. That was block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u229	I have a short question about cyber. My question was whether the NCSC is prepared for a possible cyber crisis, which could arise if there is a major cyber attack. Has any consideration been given to setting up a kind of crisis team, as is now happening with regard to migration, and actually anticipating it, and not waiting for such an attack to take place? 'Cause then maybe we're too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u230	I know that we are looking very seriously at all types of possible attacks, that we are well prepared for that kind of thing. My observation is that people have been doing this even more intensively since the war in Ukraine. Mr Brekelmans is aware of this and it is perhaps to recall here that, unfortunately, cyber attacks also take place extremely often in the Netherlands, by state actors and by non-state actors. They are very often difficult to attribute. But the good news is that the Netherlands has a lot of expertise in this area at the same time. The Netherlands generally manages to defend itself reasonably well and therefore also offers other countries, including Ukraine, to help in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u231	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agnes Mulder from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u232	I understood perfectly well that this block was also about the nuclear power stations. I asked a question about this: is the cabinet prepared to ask a question about the presence of observers from the International Atomic Energy Agency at the European Summit today and tomorrow? They offered that, too. With all the problems with the power stations that the Russians have taken over, that seems to us to be a good thing. I have now put a motion to the House, which has been signed by almost all my fellow Members, so that it can be tabled today and tomorrow. We are not going to vote on this motion until Tuesday, but we are now in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u233	I think that has been called for before. If I can understand Mrs Mulder in such a way that the Prime Minister has to insist once again on this, the 24 hours he has left, then I would like to do something about it. I'm going to see how I do that, because my suspicion is that he's not following every minute of the debate live. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the few questions that have been asked about migration and humanitarian issues. Mrs Piri asked: what can we do when it comes to providing humanitarian aid, especially for those in besieged cities? That is, of course, a terrible situation. In any case, we are making efforts to comply with the entire humanitarian law of war. This also means that humanitarian access is needed. One of the terrible things we see is, of course, that Russia simply does not cooperate. In fact, every time it's agreed that citizens should be allowed to leave a city, that goes wrong. Let me tell you what my impression is. My impression is that it's not a coincidence that every time that goes wrong. Russia is deliberately using that as leverage. Time and time again, citizens manage to get out of a city very limited or not. We are also making substantial contributions to the institutions that are doing this work. That is, first and foremost, the Red Cross, but that is also the UN. We are also trying to convey as much political support as possible to those parties, and that is what we are doing at all on this issue in order to ensure that citizens are safe as soon as possible. Mr Brekelmans asked: should you also plead for safe zones? I'd love to do that in theory. I also think it is a really nice idea, but you do make yourself totally dependent on the good will of those who then have to organise it. Russia is currently less than half prepared to allow civilians to leave. I'm skeptical about whether you can get them to organize a safe zone. So I understand the thought, but I think that's really hard to organize. Mrs Simons, Mr Ceder and Mrs Piri, I thought, were still asking for emergency aid. We do all kinds of things as donors. On day two of the invasion money was already allocated. The Netherlands is the fifth donor of the so-called Central Emergency Response Fund. That's where $20 million was released. The Minister for BHOS has made additional 40 million available to the UN and has also contributed through the Dutch Relief Alliance, the DRA, and the Red Cross. The EU has provided 90 million for emergency aid in Ukraine and Moldova. There's still a few details. I'll take them all with me in the letter. But we do a lot of things there, I think. Mr Van der Lee asked for monitoring of the humanitarian corridors. I understand very well that he is asking: shouldn't others be involved again, such as the OSCE? From the official consultation I had, it emerged that you should leave it mainly with those who are regarded by all parties as the appropriate bodies for this. Those are the Red Cross and the United Nations. I thought Mr Van der Lee mentioned the United Nations, but the Red Cross would really be part of that list, even more so than the OSCE. To be honest, I would like to concentrate on that. Then Mr Kuzu asked: what is the last stand? It's terrible, but of course that hasn't been good enough for days in a row. If everyone there had good will and wanted to realize it, then on the first day many more citizens had left the cities. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u234	Before you go any further, I would like to say to Members that today the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development has decided to hold a committee debate on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine in two weeks' time. Then the members will know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u235	Mr President, I would almost be inclined to withdraw the commitment on that entire humanitarian list, but I am going to agree with the Minister for BHOS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u236	But: preceded by a letter. So in that sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u237	Yes, so this letter... With the approval of the Members of your Chamber, I'm going to see what I can do on the subject of Mr BHOS' colleague for next Thursday, because then we will also have a debate. That helps her and me to stay steady. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the other block. Mr Kuzu asked: what are the Dutch efforts to allow evacuations to take place? Since the first signals, we have called on the Dutch to leave Ukraine. We have also always indicated that there would be no possibility for the Netherlands itself to evacuate the Dutch, if there were a war situation. That is completely separate from everything we do in the area of refugees. If Mr Kuzu meant to ask for that too, I have always said so, and I would like to repeat that I would like to say that this is the case in the region. And this is our region, so I think that all the Member States of the European Union, including the Netherlands, should at least do their fair share in it. Mr Stoffer asked whether there would be a central support point for reception. In addition to the infrastructure we already have, there are a lot of private initiatives. This also shows the enormous solidarity of the Dutch people. That, of course, relieves the pressure on the reception of municipalities and security regions, but it seems useful and sensible to keep doing so through the authorities we have and not to add anything new to it. Mrs Teunissen asked about the energy and emergency savings switch-off plan. On that point, I would like to refer to the exchange of views with Mr Van der Lee and the forthcoming debate with Mr Jetten. We have just gone through Mrs Mulder's question on accompanying policies. Mr Van Dijk called for care to be organised not only in poor neighbourhoods but also in rich neighbourhoods. I understand that the Secretary of State has already had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. I just assume that he has said that he fully agrees with that. It strikes me that the Dutch state that they wish to contribute themselves throughout the country, regardless of the specific area in which they live. I think that Mr Van Dijk, the Secretary of State and I agree. I have already mentioned the collateral damage that Mr Van Haga mentioned. Mr Eppink asked about purchasing power. I would like to say to him that I am just a simple foreign minister. It's really up to the quadrangle to meet on that. So I refer you to the cabinet. It may well be that the cabinet is deliberating about this in the short term. Mr. Chairman. CDA and VVD drew attention to the impact of the escalation on food insecurity in the OS countries. I very much share that concern. Many of us have also looked at this side of the problem in particular, in what it does not sow and therefore cannot harvest, in such a large area, that plays such an important role in the food supply of the world. I do not have a ready-made solution for that, but we are mapping this out and seeing how we can help. The consequences are enormous, not so much for the Netherlands, but wider, for the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u238	I had no time for that in my term, but now that this subject is being discussed, I would like to take a look at this point. Food security in African countries in particular, which are very dependent on imports, especially grain from Ukraine, looks dramatic. At the same time, we are quite right to welcome many Ukrainians. In my view, these are not asylum seekers. I would like to remind the cabinet that it cannot be that the funding of the reception is at the expense of the OS budget. This will be necessary to deal with the repercussions elsewhere in the world. I want to hit that picket post, and I'd like to hear if the Minister understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u239	Was the question whether I had heard correctly or if I had understood correctly? Understood, yes. And I heard it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u240	It is of course a good thing that it is being mapped out, but you could also say: what can you do in Europe? You're getting restless at your borders again; you can already foresee that. Are there, perhaps, European countries that are able, now that the sowing season and everything is about to begin, to see what is to be done to deal with this problem at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u241	Absolutely. Of course, you're not gonna map it out and then do nothing with it. I myself simply do not know the answer to the question of who could provide additional capacity there and what exactly the consequences are. I have heard the figures on the size of cereal exports, but also on sunflower oil, for example, and on the quantity apparently produced. What that means in terms of disruption of the world market and shortages is apparently enormous. By the way, you should probably add the part of the production that Russia is responsible for. You have to ask yourself whether Russia is going to make that available to the West happy. The tragedy is: who gets in trouble first? Those are, of course, people in those countries who are already having a hard time. The Netherlands is not the first country I am concerned about, in any case not given our own agricultural sector, but also not given our common purchasing power and our common ability to sustain this. That's really different in some parts of Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u242	It is good to hear that the Minister and I share that analysis, but my question is a little more specific, namely: what will then happen to it if you map it? Will the cabinet in the Netherlands do something with that? Our proposal is that this should be done at European level. I would, of course, like to have a feedback on that, knowing that the seeding season will start in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u243	Sure. I know Minister Slaghouwer is watching this, too. I'll tell Mrs. Mulder I'll discuss it with him. Then I'll ask him to inform the Chamber. Frankly, I am almost certain that his thoughts go in the same direction as Mrs Mulder's. You can't solve this problem like the Netherlands. You have to want to solve the problem at European level. Although the Netherlands is the second largest exporter of agricultural products worldwide, it is not necessarily very large in cereals. I therefore agree with Mrs Mulder and go along that line with Mr Staghouwer. Then I'll ask him to inform the Chamber. I think I have answered Mrs van der Plas' question on the same subject. She mentioned the lettuce flats and had a number of adjacent comments. Oh, that was someone at the interrupting microphone, but it was an interruption on Mrs. Van der Plas. The question was in exactly the same domain. I hope I have answered her question here too. In the category of 'other', Mrs Simons asked me the same question she asked me last Monday: is it true that refugees with a non-western appearance would be excluded from the Polish-Ukrainian border? At the time, I would have been horrified by that, and I do not think that can be done in any way. We have heard several reports about this. A hotline has been set. In any case, we will always insist that this happens without regard to the individual. As far as I am concerned, I indicated earlier that this applies to each of the criteria that we like in the category 'Article 1 of the Constitution'. Skin color is one of them, as well as gender, religion, sexual orientation and so on. The reports, as I also discussed with Mrs Simons last week, dealt specifically with skin colour, and that is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u244	I welcome the Minister's reply. It is good that he stresses once again that this is not only unacceptable as far as he is concerned, but as far as the Netherlands is concerned. At the risk of making an assumption, I dare say that most people who discriminate are not impressed by "intrusion." Most institutions, but also individuals who are guilty of this are generally not impressed by another party that says: "Oh, that's not nice, you shouldn't do that." I would therefore like to hear from the Minister, who has been dealing with this phenomenon for weeks, what that pressure looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u245	This is discussed at international level. Frontex is helping with this. I know that Ukraine itself, even in this war situation, has set up a hotline for this and indicates to everyone that this is unacceptable and that this is totally unacceptable. My perception is, although I do not know the last position, that the number of messages in the last 48 hours looks really different than before, which suggests that something has been done with it. I cannot guarantee that, but that is my impression, because not only the Netherlands, but also others have indicated that it is not possible, and certainly not on such a criterion, to distinguish who comes in at what speed. That, of course, is totally, but totally, inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u246	I would like to repeat my question from last week. At the same time, I asked what we are doing for these people. We know from some of them that they do not have Ukrainian passports, that they are there because they had applied for asylum or because they are students or because they cannot reach their embassy. What do we do for these people when they come here, but not like other people who come from Ukraine have the privileges of free travel and that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u247	Then I must refer to the Secretary of State, because I do not know what he said in the Chamber. I am sure he has made one thing crystal clear. All Ukrainians who enter here, regardless of their skin color, are subject to the same rules. No distinction is made between all people who do not have a Ukrainian passport but who had an asylum application in Ukraine, regardless of their skin colour or other characteristics, to the extent that they can be traced back to Article 1. He will have argued that, because I know that he and all the other members of the cabinet are in it exactly as I am. Mr. Chairman. I have answered Mr Dassen and Mrs Mulder's question on food. Then Mr Ceder asked whether it was clear what Mr Putin's final goal was. We have often discussed that this is not so easy to determine, but that it is mainly about showing us what we think is acceptable and not acceptable. I will not do the whole debate again, but I think we have discussed it sufficiently. The nasty treatment of Russians here in the Netherlands has been removed before in the event of interruption. Mrs Piri and others also asked about the accession process. I would like to repeat what has been said earlier, including by me. It is extremely complicated at all to refuse someone at the moment you are in such a situation. I also think it is really essential that, looking at Ukraine but also more broadly, we ask ourselves: how do we keep all the countries, including those that may not have even made a first step, part of the European family, given what is happening now? What the Commission is currently doing, or is about to do, after the European Council, is identifying options and variants. I think that's wise. If the Commission comes back with that, we in the Netherlands will have to find something of that. I think that is balanced, and I would also like us to be very much in favour of a Europe that is moving forward together on this issue and not letting this be a split-up, because it will benefit someone in Moscow in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u248	I am very pleased with these words from the Minister, because if you look at, for example, POLITICO now, it seems as if the Netherlands might want to be that piece of shit. So that's why I'm asking. Each time in the debate, you emphasise unity and unity, and we must not let ourselves be separated. Apart from the content and the way people look at this application, can you promise that the Netherlands will not veto such a decision in its own right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u249	That's what I found unfortunate about the message that I saw just as quickly. As I see it, the Netherlands is on the same page with the vast majority of the Member States. What the Prime Minister has always said: the first thing we need to do is to help solve the crisis there. The most important thing we can do, as I hear from my colleague, is arms, humanitarian aid, economic aid and so on. Just the things that are burning right now. That's one. Two. I really think that is a legitimate question from Ukraine. It's on the table, too. How do you make them more part of the European family? Perhaps you should look more through strategic glasses at all for countries that are a little further away from the centre of the Union. That is something other than going fast forward through the Copenhagen criteria. Many Member States really agree on this. They say: this is a huge process, don't put that process at an early stage; just let that process do its job, but research what you might develop in that thought about the European family. My suspicion is that the Commission is being tapped in order to develop variants for this. And then the Netherlands has something to say about that at a later date. As far as I am concerned, however, I am not sitting at the table of course, there is a large group of countries that are just as much in it as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u250	Again the question: if we stand alone, will the Netherlands not veto such a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u251	At least I didn't find that out. It is precisely the case that the Netherlands hangs out with a large group. However, it has always been said, as the Prime Minister has always said: is it the most appropriate thing to have the debate on this accession process, with all the difficulties and eyes attached, on other countries as well? Let us help them as much as possible and let us discuss again with each other what it means to be part of the European family. I think that is a really decent and well-balanced position. Again, that is certainly not just the Netherlands. This applies to a broad group of Member States. I think that when the Commission has developed options, we should look at these options together. If one option is perhaps said to be the most logical, we have to relate to it. But then we really are a few weeks or months away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u252	I understand all ifs and buts. I agree with the Minister that it may not actually help Ukraine at the moment. But apart from the substantive discussion, still a third time: if the Netherlands is alone, are we not going to veto this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u253	I'm not sitting there at the table. So I really want to refer, precisely because of all the sensitivities and precisely because of the elements that all play a role, to how the Prime Minister and I and others in the Cabinet discussed it. I want to serve it in its entirety and not as a very specific "if/then," which, as I see it, is really not on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u254	In addition to Mrs Piri's question: does the outcome of the referendum of 6 April 2016 still play a role in the discussion that the Minister just mentioned? In other words, is he going to refer to the promise made to the Dutch Government that Ukraine would not become a member of the EU? That was one of the things that was said about the outcome of the referendum, less than five or six years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u255	I am referring again to the previous answer. In the context of where we are now with Ukraine, the horrors that are taking place there, the geopolitical logic of tying the country closer to the European Union and making it clearly part of the European future and the European family, it is wise to take such a step. Moreover, I think it is up to the cabinet to find one or more variants when the Commission is ready. I know the Chamber as well as I do that the parliamentary groups will agree. I do not think that Mrs Piri and Mr Van Houwelingen will agree at the time, but we will find out. Mr. Chairman. Then I also answered Mr Dassen's question about the closer commitment under the header of the European family. Then I think I have had all the questions, except the question about the refugees and their pets. The Secretary of State for JenV, I read here, announced a comprehensive solution to this yesterday. I hope that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u256	What the Secretary of State said yesterday is he's looking for a solution. It's a pretty urgent problem. We see footage of girls who have walked 17 kilometers with their pet and now have to say goodbye to it. That's why I'm asking again. It is quite simply a matter of national coordination, linking various facilities that have now been set up very quickly, such as veterinarians and host families. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u257	I think he said yesterday that he's going to work on that. He added one more clause, namely that he wanted to find out if it was true. He wants to work quickly with a solution and see what can be done about it. I think he's already solved that with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u258	Mrs. Brekelmans of the VVD and then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u259	I also had a question about refugees. We see that many refugees from Syria, Afghanistan and other countries come to the Netherlands every day and are also expected to be 10,000 or perhaps more Ukrainians. This will put enormous pressure on Dutch society in the coming months. I believe that we can only accept this if the people who have gone through the procedure and have no right to asylum return to their safe country of origin. I ask the Foreign Minister whether he sees a role for himself to continue to appeal to the countries concerned to take these people back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u260	Yesterday there was a committee debate on this. I will inform you of this in order to prevent us from having all kinds of discussions here that we have already had in other debates. I would ask the Minister to refer to that, otherwise I would find it a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u261	I was actually going to refer to yesterday's committee debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u262	We had a committee debate on this yesterday, but it is often the case that the Foreign Minister has this on the agenda in his contacts with the countries concerned. That's why I'm asking him personally. Not to repeat the whole debate, but to ask whether, in all the things he has on his agenda, he thinks this is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u263	I want to solve one thing for now and all eternity with the Chamber. What I personally think of anything doesn't matter. I'm here as a member of the cabinet. The cabinet speaks with one voice, so what was promised yesterday was also promised on my behalf and what I promise here, I promise on behalf of the entire cabinet. If yesterday was promised that the Foreign Minister would make an effort to do so, I have to accept that further for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u264	I had another question about the emergency oil supply. In 1973, during the oil crisis, legislation was adopted that we needed an emergency oil supply. The then Minister for Economic Affairs, Mrs Jorritsma, did not think that was necessary. It could have been done on paper. I was wondering what's going on with the emergency oil supply. Do we have it at all and if so, how big is it and how long can we do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u265	I was not aware that Mrs Jorritsma was Minister of Economic Affairs in 1973, but she is very experienced. Maybe I can find out, then come up with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u266	You're damn right you can. I had another question. Universities in the Netherlands are going to ward off Russian students, at least that's what we're talking about. I'm a little worried about that, because these Russian students here are studying in a democracy and are going back to Russia. We also need those students for exchange. There they can teach other students something about democracy. I would like to keep those students, as well as the Belarusian students, for the Netherlands. I'm sorry that this question is so out of the blue, but I was wondering if we could make sure that these students could just keep going to school here. And, given the situation and the time it takes, they may be able to obtain a temporary residence permit. Because if they go back to Russia, they'll probably have to go there in military service. That is not very desirable either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u267	I think I need to outline the process. I have been in contact with Mr Dijkgraaf on this subject. That was a few days ago. He got this question a lot from the universities. My understanding is that he has now written a hand-out for the universities. I think he sent the Chamber a copy of that, but I'm not 100% sure. I think he's given a copy of it and my dark brown suspicion is... I haven't seen that letter to the universities themselves... that he's trying to distinguish between co-operation at the level of institutions you want to be critical of, and individuals you want to avoid as much as possible. You do not want civil society or young people to be part of the whole sanction package. I hope, quite frankly, that that letter will make it clear, but I do not have it at hand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u268	I'm gonna go see him, 'cause I missed him. That can be very good in the flow of all the documents we get. I'm gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u269	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister very much. I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u270	The next item is the debate on current developments in Ukraine. I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The battle in Ukraine is hardened. The stories we hear from the war zone really go through marrow and bone. I can only express my disgust at the horrible images we see from Marioepol. Putin's attack is incredibly brutal. People are forced to leave home and fireplace, if that's still there. More than 2 million people are on the run. Many have said this evening that it is heartwarming to see how the Netherlands sympathises and shows solidarity. We saw it in the action of Giro555. We also see it in all kinds of initiatives that people take. The war is affecting all of us. It also has a major impact on our military and on their families. I visited Romania early this week. There's a company of 11 Air Mobile Brigade, participating in an exercise, along with our allies there. They feel that proximity. The same applies to the people who sailed last Sunday to be part of the Standing NATO Maritime Group 1. This concerns Rotterdam and the Seven Provinces. They too know that they are going somewhere where they can be called up by NATO if necessary. And the people on the quay feel that, too. So it's different for them. That's because of the terrible war. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wanted to say something about how we look at the situation in Ukraine and answer a few questions about it. Then I come to a few comments on defence expenditure and the questions that have been asked about it. Then NATO. Then there is the support we give to Ukraine. Then there are questions about the EU. I think I've had everything I need. Much will, of course, be in line with the questions that Mr Hoekstra has just answered. The situation is, of course, evolving. You all read in the media that Kiev is still under Ukraine's control. After the initial surprise effect, the pace of the Russian fundamental offensive has declined significantly in the beginning. In any case, the courageous and persistent action of Ukrainian military forces has the effect that the Russian advance to Kiev seems to be much slower than planned and expected, with only sporadic terrain gains and an almost stable front line. Nevertheless, the attempt is, of course, clear. Putin is slowly but surely trying to include Kiev with the Russian troops, with the ultimate goal of conquering that city and occupying the government center. There are mainly several other Ukrainian cities surrounded, among others Marioepol of which we have seen these images. So there are often very heavy fights taking place in and around those cities. They also use heavy weapons. You'd expect this image to go on like this in the next few days, and possibly get worse. A number of members today asked about the potential risks of using chemical and biological weapons. We've already seen the cluster bombs. Mr Hoekstra has just answered the questions. We know the Russian army has those thermobaric weapons. We also know that Russia does not hesitate to deploy chemical weapons. In other words, we certainly cannot exclude that commitment. It has not yet been said that it is going to happen. I don't want to speculate on that either. Of course, that doesn't help the situation. But we have heard today from the British and American allies that they actually have a bit of the same assessment: the use of chemical weapons fits in with that schematic that is sometimes applied, even with a false flag first and then bet. Then there are the questions about the nuclear military part. Mr Sjoerdsma, Mrs Mulder and Mr Dassen asked for this. That nuclear threat was simply expressed by Putin, by Russian leadership. That's rhetoric, nuclear rhetoric, but nuclear rhetoric is dangerous and objectionable. I think it's very important that we don't go along with that. The cabinet has always said that. We always take all the scenarios into account. It is actually NATO's core business to do so, but nuclear escalation is not the issue. The commitment of the Netherlands is to prevent escalation and further escalation, which is in line with Minister Hoekstra. In the Netherlands, we have a decision-making structure and crisis plans for this. Several departments are involved in this. But again, it's not something we're preparing for right now. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the comments that have been made on defence expenditure. We talked about this last week, of course, in the debate. The cabinet has already taken significant steps, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine simply means a change in the security situation. This has dramatically deteriorated. We have to bear in mind that this can continue for a long time to come. There are consequences. This has consequences for the Netherlands. So it can't be without consequences for the defence budget. We discussed that at the time. We have seen the historic step taken by the Germans. That really is a huge investment in the German armed forces. We can see that in more countries. We have also seen it with the Danes and with the Swedes. There is therefore a clear mandate for the cabinet, namely that we must speed up the strengthening of our armed forces. We must invest in cooperation with allies: European allies and allies in NATO. We need to map out what more is needed. The current situation not only shows the importance of it, but also gives it even more urgency. The Chamber has also expressed this in the Sjoerdsma motion. As far as I am concerned, the starting point is: what do we think our armed forces should be able to do? What do we want to achieve together with our allies? I've already agreed to give the Chamber an insight into this. We're working on the short term. We'll see what we can do to raise the readiness faster. We must, of course, also ensure that we get a good idea of this on the defence side, so that we can decide on it within the cabinet. We must be ambitious, but also realistic about what we can achieve quickly. We have to ask ourselves how we can plan in a realistic way so that we can best shape spending. In other words, we really need to make sure, in the coming period, that we can also make good and efficient investments in the long term in order to ensure that the armed forces are future-proof. This also includes a good mapping of how we can work more closely with our European partners. So we need to look at how we can do better and how we can strengthen each other within the organisations we are in, NATO and the EU, and with our national partners. I think that is an answer to Mrs Van der Plas' question, namely: what are we doing with the Sjoerdsma motion? Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions about NATO. Firstly, there was a question from Mr Sjoerdsma. But Mr De Roon and Mrs Mulder also asked: what about our collective defence? This is, of course, one of the main tasks of the Dutch armed forces and the task of NATO. We have, of course, already taken steps as NATO. The Netherlands also participated in this. The reinforced air-policing, the increased readiness of the reaction force and the strengthening of NATO units on the east flank are all rapid reinforcements designed to strengthen and improve NATO's tasks of deterrent and defence. The use of fighter aircraft for air-policing over Eastern Europe has been extended until the end of the month. I would like to clarify one point. In the second half of this month we will only contribute to this with F-16's, so no longer with the F-35's. They are going to contribute to air-policing in Bulgaria, as already announced. But that happens in April, May. We are preparing with Germany the deployment of a Patriot air defense unit in Slovakia. This concerns about 150 Dutch soldiers. The Chamber has also been informed about this. The final decision will fall after Slovakia has also given the green light. That's all being prepared now. We are indeed investigating, together with the French and the Belgians, but at the request of NATO and the French, a possible military contribution from the Netherlands to a Battlegroup in Romania. Of course, we have to look at what we can and what the impact is on our armed forces. Next week we have a meeting of NATO Defence Ministers. Further plans for this reinforcement are being worked out within NATO. We will, of course, always have to look at how the Netherlands can contribute to this. But these are the main directions. We're going to build on that, of course. Mr De Roon said that he is concerned about the defence of our own territory if we make a great deal of effort on the eastern flank of Europe. I think it is best to defend the Netherlands by defending Europe's eastern flank. Because the NATO border is there and the threat is there too. So everything we can do there to discourage and defend is the defence of the Netherlands. I was in Lithuania and said that this is not only your border, but this is also our border.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u272	I agree with what the Minister has said about this so far, but of course it is something else. What if the whole situation runs wildly out of control and the war expands all over Europe? Let's hope that doesn't happen, but what if it does? My question is: do we still have enough anti-aircraft resources to adequately protect the vital strategic goals in the Netherlands? That's what I cared about. After all, you won't have that Patriot unit that's in Slovakia back anytime soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u273	Maybe I can turn it around after all? It is precisely in order to prevent us from ever coming into such a situation that, as NATO, we must ensure that we have the defence, including air defence, at the eastern border of the NATO area in order. Because we really shouldn't be in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u274	That all sounds very nice, but you can't control it. If Mr Putin decides to do three things, it can go far beyond what is happening at that eastern border.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u275	I would like to stress how it works, technically, but also militaryly. Everything that comes in our direction comes in from somewhere, too. So you need your air defense where it's most effective. That's on the eastern border of the NATO area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u276	I'd like to continue with that. That is all true, but I am concerned about the situation in which the situation is completely out of hand and where it may not even be so relevant anymore what is happening at that eastern border, because it could then be extended across Europe. If they're out of control in the Kremlin, that could happen. That's what my question is about. Do we still have enough air defense in the Netherlands for the defence of the vitals, for example the port of Rotterdam? I just want an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u277	I think I understand Mr De Roon, but I think he understands me too. I say that we never want to end up in such a situation. That is why we are members of NATO. That is why 30 countries are members of NATO. They are members of NATO because none of those 30 countries want to enter that situation. The Netherlands is a very serious player in NATO; not the biggest, but a very serious one. But we really need allies, also for the protection of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u278	Mr. De Roon still wants to respond? No. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u279	I think the Minister's handling this is a little too easy. Of course we don't want to get into that situation, but I can assume that in the military apparatus, scenarios are simply being developed? I suppose they say: if we do, and we do, are we still able to defend ourselves? That's a legitimate question, isn't it? I assume the scenario has been passed on to the minister. Then the Minister can just answer the question, can't he? She can say: yes, we have talked about that scenario, and then we can no longer defend ourselves, or then we can defend ourselves? I would therefore like to hear an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u280	The question is, of course, who is it about when Mr Van Haga talks about 'ourself'? The Netherlands is a member of NATO. In that alliance, we agreed in Article 5 that an attack on one is an attack on all. That's the base. The motive to be a member of NATO is actually that you protect yourself, your own country best by being part of the bigger picture. And then you have to accept the consequences of that. At the moment, the threat we are now seeing is the threat at the eastern border of the NATO alliance. And we have to assume that it will remain there for the time being. That means we need to strengthen that eastern border. That goes for us, too. And by protecting that eastern border, of course, we also protect the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u281	Mr De Roon has asked that question twice here. I'm now committing my second interruption. I think it's really insufferable. I don't need to get a lesson here about how NATO works. We all know that. Of course, an attack on one, an attack on all. We understand. The question is: has a scenario been worked out or have different scenarios been worked out in case we deliver it and start guarding the border, but then it all goes wrong? In that case, can we defend ourselves? Have those scenarios been discussed with the minister? That must have been discussed, right? If that hasn't been discussed, then we can't really worry here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u282	As I said earlier, NATO's core business is to take into account threats and develop scenarios for them. This applies to different options, so of course there are scenarios. But we are members of NATO, and so we are working with NATO. We are not working on scenarios in which we are only defending the Netherlands. We are working on scenarios for the threats to all NATO Member States. That's what we're committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u283	How many interruptions do I have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u284	Two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u285	This is gonna be really hard, 'cause I just can't get an answer. There are scenarios, but the simple question is whether we can defend ourselves if we say goodbye to certain equipment and put it there, and if everything really goes into the air, is not answered. Has that scenario been passed on to you? Now that I am asking this for the third time, I hope that the Minister is not going to give another lesson on how NATO works. Can we defend ourselves then, or is our armed forces, after ten years of mischief, left in such a slender form that we can no longer do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u286	The whole idea of NATO is that you together make sure that you have what it takes to defend the entire alliance. The idea is not that 30 countries have everything to defend 30 individual countries with all the stuff. That's how it works. That goes for us, too. We too must make choices. Then I will go to Mrs Mulder, because she had another question about the Baltic States, about the commitment there and how it is coordinated. It is really coordinated by NATO. We've been there for five years. We just stopped to think about the anniversary. The NATO Forward Presence units are now under direct command of the SACEUR. That's special. That's because of the threat we're facing right now. This means that it is fully coordinated by NATO, of course in close consultation with the lead nations and the other participating countries. This means that everything that is happening in the Baltic States is in line with what NATO believes should be done there. So we don't do that bilaterally or in any other way anymore. No other current requests were made to the Netherlands from the Balticum either. Mr Ceder talked about whether the stakes could be extended. Let me see if I am referring specifically to the stakes he meant, because for the flash power only a French unit has now been deployed. The Netherlands is not yet a part of that. We are active in air policing with the F-16s and F-35s, but they are not part of the NATO Response Force. I just mentioned the Patriots. I have already mentioned Romania. Of course, we still have the Navy, which is active in the Standing NATO Maritime Group. Maybe he was referring to the latter, because he mentioned the four-and-a-half month term. In everything a time limit is set for the bet and there is a rotation. That was agreed in advance. There is therefore no reason to assume that the crew of the Seven Provinces......... will be active longer than four and a half months.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can never completely rule it out either, but in principle that rotation works in such a way that there will be a new team from the Netherlands or another country. That depends on the agreed schedule. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions about NATO. Then I come to the questions about support for Ukraine. Indeed, I had already stated that we are reluctant to communicate on the provision of military support after the very first decision on this matter. That is because we have come at a different stage, actually since the moment it was clear that the war would continue. That is also true for reasons of operational security. The cabinet will of course continue to inform the Chamber, but we do so confidentially for the specific military goods. Today we sent a first letter to the Chamber about this. Of course, it remains important to continue to provide that support where we can and to remain in constant contact with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u287	Mr President, I have only one interruption left, so I hope that I will be able to put the question properly and then get an answer. The Minister talked about being reluctant to provide information on what we are not shipping to Ukraine. I was particularly surprised at the Minister's social media expression, with a muscle emoticon, that we were going to deliver 200 Stingers. I wonder whether the Minister should not express his regret about this and say that we are going to do this differently in future, because this is simply dangerous for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u288	I have just said that we are doing this differently. In the very first phase, the Netherlands had decided, by the way, to deliver with a lot of other countries, and also to go through a careful process to check against the export criteria for weapons. Then we had a logistical problem because the war had begun, by Putin. At that stage, we have chosen to actually communicate about it publicly. You can argue about it, but I would like to point out to Mr Van Haga that the tweet in question was not at all about how great it was that those weapons were delivered. It was about how great it was that the Dutch armed forces were able to make sure that those things were delivered very quickly. It was about pride in the Dutch armed forces and not at all about what Mr Van Haga is calling for all the time. Of course not. In such a serious situation, of course, I would never do that at all. However, that has apparently been misunderstood by Mr Van Haga, so I am glad to be able to correct that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u289	I was just trying to find that tweet and I couldn't find it. If the Minister is so proud of it, it's just there, I suppose. This is not my interruption, because I am very careful about it. I do have a letter here that the government is no longer going to communicate in detail about arms supplies. The question is what, then, we as the Chamber can no longer discuss openly and what should be confidential in future. I find that really difficult, because I, of course, want to be transparent towards society as a parliamentarians. For example, it says in the letter of 3 March that we are sending vehicles to Ukraine. What kind of vehicles are those?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u290	I refer Mr Van Dijk to the confidential annex. I hope it doesn't sound faint...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u291	You can just read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u292	Let's talk to the minister! There was something you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u293	I understand the dilemma very well. I am also in favour of transparent communication, as much as possible and wherever possible. Only here, at some point, we have had to consider... we have taken the decision in principle. The Chamber knows that we apply the criteria to what we deliver. We would also like to be accountable to the Chamber, including, for example, the costs of the equipment we supply, and to give access to the exact defence equipment we are talking about. But we did say, when we made that decision ourselves on the cabinet side... Then we saw that NATO and others have said that it is better to do so; for the sake of operational security, do not give an insight into details that are not necessary, as this war continues. Hence the choice to describe in general terms that we continue to grant aid and refer the Court to the confidential annex for the precise implementation of that aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u294	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u295	The big problem with confidential attachments is that I can't do anything with them. I can't talk about it. The minister says she refers to the letter, to a simple question about vehicles. In theory, that may mean it's either a trailer or a tank, but I can't discuss that anymore. It's quite profound, isn't it, the Minister acknowledges that? It is true that from now on the government has a licence to send everything to Ukraine, but that the parliament is being shut down and the debate on it is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u296	It is up to the Chamber, of course, but the Chamber is informed, I think, only, the Cabinet is asking for that to be kept confidential. If there is a problem, then the Chamber may be able to do so, but you know that much better than I still think I am saying to the Cabinet: we want to talk about this, but it must also be confidential. You can still do that. Again, we give maximum openness. What we do is in line with what we did before. We'll test it again and again, if we need to. In fact, I hope that we have found a way of keeping the Chamber well informed, without compromising operational security and without playing into the hands of those we do not want to make now wiser than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u297	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u298	When I ask what is meant by "a vehicle," the Minister shuts up. Does she want to say anything about numbers? And does she want to say something about costs? Can we still talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u299	I understand very well that the Chamber would like to speak openly about this cost. I would like to see what else we can do with that, but it seems to me that it is difficult to distinguish between military goods, which means that we do so in the case of a vehicle, but not in the case of another component. We have therefore chosen to include all the specifications in that annex. If the Chamber wants it to be different, then of course we want to adapt to it. We are only asking for an understanding of the problem of being completely transparent about the content of deliveries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u300	Mr Brekelmans, finally. Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u301	I just want to express my support for this line. I think it's very good that we're being kept confidential. Mr Van Dijk will then be able to criticize too much, it will be too expensive, it will be too heavy; that kind of general remarks will be made, and then we will be able to conduct the political debate on the broad lines. In this war situation, where the security of Ukrainians and of our people who supply this is very high, or perhaps even at the top, I think this is a very good way in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u302	Also support for this line. I imagine you have to ask yourself whether you want to communicate this way if there is too much to derive from the numbers. I'll give it to the cabinet. Then we need to talk about it in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u303	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u304	These are interruptions, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u305	Yes. Collegial this. The three of us are gonna stick to this very well. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u306	Finally, Mr President. The Chamber has previously called for attention to be paid to the displacement effects. Of course, we will continue to judge them. I also get advice on this from the CDS: are the displacement effects acceptable or not? We're gonna keep doing what we can. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of comments on the EU. The Court is aware of the fact that the EU has adopted two aid measures. The European Peace Facility has earmarked 500 million for the supply of military goods. That's what's happening now. The Foreign Minister has already said a few things about sanctions. European defence cooperation is of great importance. It is a subject of discussion in Europe and now in Versailles. Mr Sjoerdsma specifically asked about the Strategic Compass. It was indeed agreed to conclude the Strategic Compass and now adopt it in the next formal European Council in March. But, indeed, we must take a very close look at whether this has been adequately given to the return of war in Europe. I think everyone thought so. We have seen that the new draft has made considerable adjustments, so that it is in fact better suited to the situation we are now in. The threat posed by Russia has therefore been taken up more prominently. The Strategic Compass also addresses the need for Member States to increase defence expenditure. It is also about additional support for Ukraine. This concerns, among other things, the peace facility that I was just talking about. It is about how important cooperation between NATO and the EU is and how important the unity of the two organisations is. The compass is also becoming more ambitious in terms of military mobility, a subject that the Netherlands has always considered important. In other words: I think it is good to make sure that the Strategic Compass is there, because only then can you actually implement the objectives of the Strategic Compass. I hope, therefore, that the compass can be adopted in this adapted form. There is another annotated agenda coming to the Chamber for the next IAB, where it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u307	Our speech was, of course, largely about the association agreement. A referendum was held on that at the time. As a result, this minister, in another role, has abolished that referendum. I would like to ask the Minister whether she could perhaps briefly reflect on the outcome of that referendum and whether, in view of this terrible situation, it might not have been wise to respect the outcome of the referendum. I would appreciate a brief reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u308	I believe that Mr Hoekstra has just done so. Mr Hoekstra also reminded us that the cabinet speaks with one voice. I do not think it would make much sense to repeat Mr Hoekstra's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u309	I would like to ask another question. A lot has happened in the last two weeks. But the steps taken by the eastern neighbours, in Germany, are really very large. An important part of the committee was with the troops in Lithuania in the autumn, where I believe the minister has been recently. That's a German-Dutch unit. My question to the Minister is as follows. When it comes to the extra defence efforts, is there any additional attention to be paid to strengthening cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany, perhaps also with joint units? This increases effectiveness and may even reduce costs. Has cooperation been established with the German Government, as in the other areas relevant in terms of diplomacy and sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u310	Sure. The answer is absolutely yes. It's incredibly important. Especially in the army we already work integrated with the Germans. The Germans have announced that they are going to invest heavily, also because they say, of course, that we, as the largest country in the European Union, are taking on a great responsibility. The Germans also want to continue working with the Netherlands. So we also see opportunities for discussions that were sometimes complicated for financial reasons, namely to improve interoperability by ensuring that you jointly purchase the same systems and that the cycles of replacement run together. In some cases, we already have certain equipment. If the Germans still have to renew and invest, then it really helps if they buy the same thing. These are all conversations that have already been made, but could now become easier. In any case, we are committed to this. We were already in contact, but as a result of the announcement by the Germans, we stressed once again that we would very much like to do so. So the answer is absolutely yes. Mr Dassen asked how we look at the possibility of a new joint European Defence Fund. I think Mr Dassen was based on media coverage. Of course, there is already a European Defence Fund under the current Multiannual Financial Framework. I think he was referring to ideas that are now going around, but which are not yet formal proposals, as far as I know. That is why I cannot really give a specific answer to his question, because there is currently no concrete proposal on the table. I think that both the European Union and many Member States are now considering the question: if we are going to spend more on defence, how can we do that? I believe that the question on cyber has also been answered by Mr Hoekstra. That brings me to the end of what I wanted to say. As I said at the beginning, I fear that the end of this terrible war is not yet in sight. We'll talk about this a lot. I will continue to report to the Chamber on what we are doing in NATO and at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u311	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u312	Of course, thanks to the Secretary of Defense for answering the questions. I asked a question about that no-fly zone. I know Minister Hoekstra has already said something about that. I can see that this is not a reproach to the cabinet, Mr President, that it is still being wildly speculated about. That option of a no-fly zone or a partial no-fly zone above a humanitarian corridor comes up at almost every talk show table. Let me make it clear that my group supports the government's assessment that this could really lead to a further escalation. But could you perhaps explain one more time what it would mean to be military if we went to such a no-fly zone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u313	Of course, in line with what Mr Hoekstra said about this. The problem with a no-fly zone is that if you cancel it, you have to maintain it. It's about a no-fly zone over Ukraine or over a part of Ukraine. Russia is at war, engaged in an invasion of that country. So that's a war situation that you're going to say as NATO: we're going to declare and maintain a no-fly zone here. You can only maintain such a zone if fighters, jet fighters, NATO are not only going to fly there but are also taking action when a no-fly zone is being violated by the Russian military. And that "coming into action" also means that you have to be willing to chase Russian fighters out of that airspace or shoot them down. This brings you directly into military contact with Russia, and so you cause NATO to become part of that war that is already there. That is why NATO's sg and all its allies have said: we simply cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u314	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u315	Clearly and thankfully to the Minister. Then I have one more addition. If you look at this war now, to what extent is it conducted from the air? So how effective would it be at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u316	Mrs Piri also pointed out that this was said: there is actually not yet a complete control of airspace. Perhaps I should add to my speech earlier that, in order to control airspace, Russian air defence must also be completely eliminated. So it seems that the Russians are not quite masters in the airspace, because Ukraine is still able to act on that. That is the actual situation. I have already said that, of course, this war is being waged with particularly heavy weapons. This has led to the Russians not being able to do exactly as they were supposed to do in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u317	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we proceed immediately with the second term. Since we also debated last week, I hope that the number of motions will be limited. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21 for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u318	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the ministers for their answers and wish them much strength in the forthcoming international talks. In my first term I indicated that JA21 wants to use a reduction in excise duties on petrol and a reduction in VAT on the energy bill. I told you about 4:15. At 6.15 p.m., I saw through the media that the cabinet intends to direct these compensation plans. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for the speedy handling of my request. I hope they will continue in this direction. We'll see if it'll be enough. In fact, I have one more point, namely that the compensation scheme would enter into force on 1 July. But what about the period until July 1st? That's a few more months. I don't want to ask any more questions. I thank the government. I'm very glad the government listens so well to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u319	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u320	Mr. Chairman. You will hear: this country is actually governed by Mr Eppink. I thank the government for the answers. We agree that we just have to do everything we can to stop this terrible war. That's the essence, I think. We would like to be kept informed of all developments on that point. On one point, I had an interrupting debate with the Foreign Minister. That was about the sanctions. I have tabled a motion to step up the monitoring of compliance with sanctions. That is the essence of the motion. It is, of course, addressed to the government. The Minister is therefore entitled to refer to the Finance Committee, which is his right to do so, but I expect the government to speak with one voice here and perhaps, if necessary, to agree to it. In any case, the monitoring of compliance with sanctions was not yet regulated this morning. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that sanctions resulting from the war in Ukraine should be strictly respected;]] [[Whereas the monitoring of compliance with sanctions is of great importance and it is necessary to avoid fragmentation in that monitoring;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward rapidly with a proposal to strengthen the monitoring of compliance with sanctions and, if necessary, to release additional capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u321	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to thank the Ministers for their reply. I wish them luck and strength again for the next few hours and days, because it will not be easy for them either. I don't have any motions of my own. I have, however, signed a number of motions by colleagues. I welcome the Foreign Minister's commitment to consider how we can provide bilateral financial support to Moldova and receive a letter on this. In addition, I think it is essential that we remain behind Ukraine as one block. We need to see how we can provide humanitarian aid, to people trapped in Ukraine and, of course, to refugees. We need to see how we can keep putting the screws on Putin, for example by tightening the sanctions. Of course, we should ideally focus on diplomacy and de-escalation, but as Mr Hoekstra said, I do not interpret it as such on the capitulation of Kiev. One question hadn't been answered. It is my point that Mr Johnson has the highest word on this war, but now no refugee is allowed and the oligarchs are actually walking. We know the Prime Minister had a conversation with Mr Johnson. Is this a matter of fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u322	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u323	Thank you to both ministers for answering all the questions. Support for the line and deployment of the cabinet. I have one short question for both ministers. The first question concerns sanctions in the oil sector. For this purpose, the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the Minister for Climate and Energy, but I was mainly concerned with the way payments are shaped. In previous sanctions, in 2012 against Iran, the United States had very creative constructions for that. That is a bit more on the line of the Foreign Affairs Committee, so I would ask the Minister to look into that. For the coordination of arms supplies, the Minister of Defence referred to the European Peace Facility. The United States and the United Kingdom, in particular, are of course providing a lot of bilateral services, and it is therefore important to coordinate it with those countries. Will the Minister respond to that? Finally, I am very concerned about the chemical and biological weapons and the false flag that may take place there. The Minister also said something about this. That's why I'm filing this motion as soon as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that Russia accuses Ukraine and the United States of the development of chemical and biological weapons in Ukraine without any evidence;]] [[Considering that allies warn that Russia can use this as a pretext for its own attack with chemical or biological weapons;]] [[Whereas Russia in Syria is working closely with the Assad regime, which is using chemical weapons against its own population;]] [[Whereas States may submit suspicions of chemical weapons to the OPCW;]] [[calls on the Government to insist that the EU and similar countries make it clear to Russia that allegations not presented to the OPCW with factual justification are not credible;]] [[calls on the Government also to urge the EU and similar countries to prepare a package of measures in case Russia would switch to the use of chemical or biological weapons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Brekelmans, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Ceder, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Piri, Mr Eppink and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the rulers, their assistants and colleagues in the cabinet who work very hard with other colleagues in Europe from other portfolios. This is happening in a united way that GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports. In the debate, however, I insisted on going a little further in a number of areas. This morning we were talking about financial sanctions, and we are getting more information about that. A motion from me was also passed this afternoon. I am also sympathetic to Mr Van Dijk's motion, but I think that is also included in a letter that is to come. Every bit helps. On the other hand, I would like to make the point that if the Netherlands takes steps to restrict imports of fossil energy from Russia, it will need some room within the common market. Hence the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Russian violence in Ukraine is becoming increasingly extreme and the artillery shooting of a children's hospital is clearly a war crime;]] [[Whereas the further reduction of money flows to Russia can force Putin to cease firing more quickly;]] [[Whereas for this reason the US and the UK have decided to boycott fossil imports from Russia;]] [[whereas not all EU Member States can follow this step, but Netherland and some other Member States could do so;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ban the new imports of fossil energy from Russia as soon as possible as the Netherlands does;]] [[calls on the Government to actively launch the dialogue within the European Union and to provide scope for those Member States which wish to take similar steps, but also, of course, to leave room for those Member States which, for understandable reasons, cannot do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u325	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two directors for their reply. I would like to talk briefly about these sanctions. Some people say sanctions don't work. I just saw an estimate that the expected effects of this sanction on the Russian economy would result in a 15% contraction this year. That's really twice as much as with the most recent major financial depression. That 15% is still without the measures to be taken. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer those two questions that I raised in my first term about the sanctioning unit in the interdepartmental sanctioning working group and how far we stand with that now. I hope that will be taken up with great urgency. Just as I hope, Mr President, the Minister has just indicated that the strategic compass is being adapted. I think that is good, but I also hope that she will see the scope to shape European cooperation in the field of integration and specialisation with even more pace and ambition in the coming months. I don't think we have time to waste. Now we are in the good company of a NATO that works well, but we have also been able to see in recent years what it feels like if it does not. Hopefully it is wrong, but we must nevertheless prepare ourselves for a situation in which this may happen again. Europe must be able to take control of its own defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u326	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u327	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to actively fight against discrimination and exclusion of Russians and Belarusians,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to boycott Russian gas, coal and oil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine various scenarios, such as the reopening of coal plants and the increase in production from the Groningen gas field, to reduce energy dependence on abroad, and to share this with the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-24]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-25]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u328	And then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to identify the collateral damage of sanctions against Russia to the Dutch economy and the Dutch households within one month and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u329	Of course, I will withdraw the last motion if I get a commitment in the second term of the Minister with a certain deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u330	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This is a cliffhanger. Then we go to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u331	Mr. Chairman. As regards sanctions, since the invasion of Ukraine, EUR 9 billion has been sent from the European Union to Putin for oil and gas imports. It is by far the greatest blow we can make to make ourselves independent and also to hit Putin. I believe that there is far too little momentum to become independent as the Netherlands from the import of oil and gas. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that as a result of imports of gas and oil, the Netherlands transfers billions annually to Russia and thereby contributes to Putin's war chest;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should become independent of Russian gas as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas, according to the International Energy Agency and the Netherlands Association for Renewable Energy, the Netherlands can become independent of Russian gas through energy savings, for example by drastically reducing the unnecessary use of energy in office buildings;]] [[believes that the government should set a good example;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with an energy saving plan for all public buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u332	Finally. Good thing a solution is being sought for Ukrainians who bring pets. I would like to ask the cabinet if a letter can be sent if progress has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u333	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u334	Mr. Chairman. We often talk here with due pride about unity within the European Union, unity within the Western world. In fact, you would wish candidate countries of the European Union to have the same attitude. I sense that is not the case. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of Serbs have gone on the streets in Belgrade to express support for Putin;]] [[Considering that it is one of the few public statements of support for Russia following its invasion of Ukraine;]] [[noting that EU candidate country refuses Serbia to impose sanctions against Russia;]] [[Considering that the competent authorities of Serbia have announced that they will take all measures to prevent Serbian citizens from participating in the conflict on the side of Ukraine and punish them if they do;]] [[whereas the Serbian Government is clearly taking sides with Russia and not with the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government to condemn candidate countries of the European Union, such as Serbia, which support Russia, at the next Foreign Affairs Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u335	Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Russia is also bombing civilian targets and that the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine is growing;]] [[calls on the Government, inter alia, through diplomacy, to make maximum efforts to secure humanitarian corridors from besieged cities to the west, to support NGOs in obtaining humanitarian access and to prevent trafficking in human beings among Ukrainian refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u336	I would also like to thank both ministers for the way in which we are provided with information. It will change about every minute, so I wish them a great deal of wisdom and strength for the future in all the work that needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u337	I shall then give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u338	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers they have given. In Het Financieele Dagblad of 5 March there was an interesting article about Putin and his rat. That's the most notorious rat in the world. The story goes that Putin likes to tell about the rat he once chased in a hallway as a boy in the then Leningrad. Driven in the corner, the rat turned around and attacked Putin. Now it is special that Putin told this story wherever they wanted to hear it and that he has continued to do so in recent years. So he keeps coming back to that again and again. That means, in my opinion, that we have to take into account the rat's point of view. That inspired me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Defence refused to declare whether the Netherlands still had sufficient air defence equipment available to protect the strategic objectives in the Netherlands in a worst case scenario after a Patriot unit had been broadcast to Slovakia;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in writing of the immediately deployable means of air defence and of the numbers that remain available during that broadcast in the Netherlands, and whether they are sufficient to adequately protect the strategic objectives in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Roon and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u339	Let me ask you a question. Mr De Roon's party, the PVV, really does not want to put Putin in the way. He was against the association agreement at the time. He's against sanctions. He's against supplying weapons. Is he now opposed to placing Patriots with our NATO ally in order to keep our eastern border safe and protect our alliance territory? Is that what he's saying now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u340	That is a completely wrong distortion of the views of the PVV. I have just said in this debate that we support the idea of broadcasting these Patriots. We support that in principle. But I do have this question: what remains available in the Netherlands to protect our own country, if necessary? So that's what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u341	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u342	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that three of the five Ukrainian nuclear power stations are currently in a precarious situation as a result of the war;]] [[Whereas dysfunction, as has already happened in recent days, or the possible destruction of these nuclear power plants could lead to a humanitarian disaster in Ukraine and far beyond;]] [[Whereas the International Atomic Energy Agency (ILO) has offered to send observation missions to Ukrainian nuclear power plants;]] [[Whereas there is no military component on such an IAEA monitoring mission, it is strictly civil and scientific in nature and serves only to prevent a nuclear disaster;]] [[calls on the Government, at the European Summit on 10 and 11 March and in other international bodies, to urge the diplomatic admission of expert observation missions to Ukrainian nuclear power stations, preferably made up of IAEA specialists, to prevent any damage to and potential meltdowns of nuclear reactors and thereby take the necessary action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Brekelmans, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Ceder, Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Stoffer, Mr Eppink, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Den Haan and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u343	I would also like to ask the Minister when the answer will be on the accompanying policy. I want the people in Ukraine, and the people who live here in the Netherlands with Ukrainian family, to have a heartbeat from this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u344	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u345	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in Russia a 15-year prison sentence has been imposed by new legislation to contradict the Kremlin position on the war in Ukraine;]] [[whereas many foreign media have left, Russia's popular radio station Ekho Moskvy has been closed and Radio Free Europe has had to suspend its activities;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to consider, in consultation with allies, how we can support initiatives to reach Russians and provide information from a different perspective than that of the Kremlin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas we have hundreds of Russian and Belarusian students in the Netherlands who should return after their studies;]] [[whereas there are no flights back to Russia, many students are afraid to return and they may need military service upon arrival in Russia;]] [[requests the Cabinet to examine whether the Netherlands can grant temporary residence permits to Russian and Belarusian students in the Netherlands in the event of a permanent or worsening political situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u346	Then I have another supplementary question. It's about reducing excise duty. I understand that all this has been done thanks to Mr Eppink. We also have the red diesel. Red diesel was abolished in 2013. That was an austerity measure. Red diesel is no more polluting than ordinary diesel. It's red because it adds dye, because then it's easier to check if it's red diesel. Red diesel traditionally had an even lower excise duty. Due to the high prices of energy, raw materials and gas, many entrepreneurs are facing problems, including agricultural entrepreneurs, but also road and water entrepreneurs. I would like to ask the cabinet to consider the whole package to allow red diesel as a measure for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. That could be temporary, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u347	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I have put my concerns in a number of motions, which have already been tabled by Mrs Mulder and Mr Brekelmans, on bioweapons and the nuclear power plant. We're still a little worried about that. I look forward to the appreciation of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u349	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u350	Thank you, Mr President. We had some scrambles the last time we filed the motions. I've got a few left, and I'd like to file them now. It's four short motions. I'll read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are now widespread voices for a "European army";]] [[calls on the Government to exclude the creation of such a "European army,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u351	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the conflict between Russia and Ukraine always leads the Dutch interest, not the interest of the European Union or the interest of NATO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas war is undesirable;]] [[calls on the government to push for peace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-36]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u352	And then the final motion. That is the motion we had some difficulty with last time, but hopefully we can now table it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Dutch people were indeed right to vote against the Association Agreement with Ukraine in the referendum on 6 April 2016;]] [[points out that precisely what the opponents of the association agreement warned at the time, now that unfortunately the event has taken place, causing incredibly much damage and suffering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Houwelingen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36045-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u353	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about 10 minutes to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u354	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u355	Thank you, Mr President. I still have a number of questions from the first period and questions that have been added in the second period. I'm gonna answer it soon, and then I'm gonna get to my part of the motions. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the sanctioning unit. I knew it would be quick. They'll even be recruited for it next week. So that really does happen in the very short term. I would like to say to Mrs Piri that there has been a general discussion of refugees between Mr Johnson and Mr Rutte. As a cabinet and also as a civil servant, we will, wherever possible, convey the issue of fair share to all Member States. If that's how I understood her, we'll go through with it. We do this not only towards the British, but also towards others. I would like to say this to Mrs van der Plas. Apart from what is in the newspapers, the cabinet is still looking at the whole package at all, but unfortunately I am not allowed to comment on it in the newspapers. I understand that everyone in this house sees Mr Eppink's hand behind that. I have one more thing to nuance. A fair question has been put by Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Simons on the establishment of sanctions. What I said about Europe and joint decision-making is all true, but the input can also come from Member States themselves. We appear to have done so in a few specific cases. We could also operate further along that line. I think it is important to say that, because my answer to that point might otherwise be considered incomplete. Mrs van der Plas mentioned the emergency oil supply. The Netherlands has an obligation to make a stock of at least 90 days. We have plenty of supplies. This is managed by the Central Commission for Stockpiling Petroleum products. I imagine she hasn't read a lot of articles on this, but that central body does exist. Mr Van der Lee asked about the security of supply and the adaptation of the energy market. I would like to say to him that I am going to do the same in the motion for a resolution that a letter from Mr Jetten will be sent next week. I'm gonna ask him to take this in, like a lot of things in the motions. That is by far the shortest way to the goal. Accompanying policy, Mrs Mulder asked for it. I'll be on the motion on that in a minute. Within two weeks there should be a response from the cabinet. The Minister of EZK, I say to Mr Van Haga, is working with the SZW and Finance Ministers on mapping. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions. I see Mr Brekelmans making a move as if I had forgotten something again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u356	Yet Mrs Van der Plas of BBB was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u357	Thanks for the answers. I understand that the Minister is not allowed to say anything about what is in the media about the possible package, but my question was actually: should a purchasing power package be discussed in the cabinet, would you please tell the Minister for Economic Affairs, I think it falls within the scope of Economic Affairs, if the question is whether red diesel can be considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u358	I can share with the Cabinet the feelings that live in this Chamber. But then it is primarily up to the quadrangle ministers to find something of that. I shall then deal with Mrs van der Plas in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u359	I asked a question about the sanctions previously imposed against Iran and the method of payments in the oil sector. That's a little bit more at State than at Energy. Could that possibly also be included in the RBZ we have on Thursday, or in the run-up to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u360	If I promise Mr. Brekelmans I'll do one of two things. Or it will be included in Mr Jetten's letter, which is broader about energy. This is the type of element that was attached to it. If it does not really fit there, or if it is not dealt with there, then I will come back to the debate we are having next Thursday. Is this how we're gonna do it? Then Mr Brekelmans will have an answer to that at least next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u361	The Minister indicated that the Ministry of EZK is working on all kinds of issues. But was that the appreciation of the motion in part no. 27?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u362	No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm gonna get on the motions. But there was a specific question on this, I thought of Mr Van Haga but at least of Mrs Mulder. She asked about the term. I'll be on the motions. In fact, that's what I'm coming up with now, Mr. Chairman. The first motion is Mr Van Dijk's motion on stepping up supervision of these motions. I'm sorry, I mean the sanctions. I've seen too many motions. Moreover, supervision of the motions would not be a bad idea either, but that is not my concern. This was about stepping up the monitoring of compliance with sanctions. Monitoring compliance with sanctions is the responsibility of the ministers of BHOS, Finance and JenV. I really want to talk to colleagues about this. I'll get back to you on that. I would ask whether Mr Van Dijk would like to continue the motion for a resolution for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u363	I would like to look at Mr Jasper van Dijk if he is prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u364	I saw a nodding movement, Mr. Chairman. But it's late at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u365	The votes are Tuesday, aren't they? Then the Minister can send a note with an appreciation for that, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u366	I think we can. I'm gonna try to do that. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u367	So we agree that there will be an appreciation of the motion in part No. 21 before Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u368	Yes, of the colleagues mentioned. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 22 gets judgment room. We regard them as support for policy. I should like to ask Mr Van der Lee whether he has tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 23 wants to stay, just given next week's letter. Then the answer will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u369	I would like to take a look at Mr Van der Lee to see if he is prepared to make the motion in part No. 23 to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u370	I am going to discuss this for a moment, but I will clarify it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u371	If Mr Van der Lee does not hold the motion, what is your appreciation of the motion in part No. 23?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u372	I understand the feelings about each of those energy emotions very well. However, Mr Jetten is sending a letter next week and the votes are not until next week. It's so close. I would really like to ask the Chamber to give Mr Jetten the opportunity to share this with the Chamber in all its richness, rather than let me take this off for a moment. Nor would Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u373	Only, the motion in part No. 23 hasn't been apprehended yet. What if it is put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u374	In my view, Mr President, I must draw the same line. The motions that Members decide to submit, I am going to advise against, although Mr Jetten may then write down very warm things about them in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u375	The same applies to the motion in part No. 21, so for the motions on the items Nos. 21 and 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u376	Yeah, but I've come up with an appreciation of the motion in part no. 21, so that's different. I come with an appreciation of the motion in part No. 21. I do not know when Mr Jetten's letter will arrive. That may well be after the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u377	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u378	So I'm asking for that motion to be held. I think that's just another walkway. I have already said something in the debate about the motion on item No. 24 on discrimination. He's gonna get judgment, Room. I would like to see the motion in part No. 25 is being held, given what I just said about energy. I would like to see the motion in part No. 26 is also under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u379	Before you proceed, I would like to look at Mr Van Haga to see if he is prepared to move on to part No. Twenty-five. You can nod if you want to keep it on, Mr. Van Haga. That might save you a walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u380	I don't quite understand when I'm going to have to hold the motion. We can just decide, can't we? This is a very simple motion, which leaves little to the imagination. If Mr. Jetten is gonna say something about that one more time, I'll know what the appreciation is gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u381	What I think is important is that Mr Jetten should respond in general to the greater energy problem that comes from behind and that he should take each of these points with him. If Mr Van Haga says he's going to file the motion after all, I'm going to have to dissuade her. But I myself would find it the royal way to sum up all those things that affect energy supply and the letter that Mr Jetten is going to send in a week, perhaps even a day. But it is obviously up to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u382	Again, I really don't understand what that's going to matter. But okay, if that's the royal road, then I'm gonna hold on to these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u383	Thank you. That means that the motion in part No. 25 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u384	Well, chairman, I'll give the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u385	And the motion in part No. 26...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u386	Yeah, the motion to part No. 26, too. The motion in part No. 27 I'll give immediate judgment, Chamber. I would have done that in the previous debate. This is therefore subject to a period of two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u387	For the sake of clarity, I repeat that the motion in part No. 25 and the motion in part No. Twenty-six are under arrest. And the motion in part No. 27 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u388	Yes. The motion in part No. 27 is the motion on collateral damage. I would ask Mrs Teunissen to include the motion on item No. 28 to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u389	Mrs Teunissen nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u390	The motion in part No. 29 belongs to Mr Kuzu. As far as we're concerned, she's getting a room of judgment. I would like to add that I think that the motion is rather sharp. I understand that of Mr Kuzu. Moreover, Serbia did support the UN resolution. At the same time, I share that Serbia's reaction has resulted in more than raised eyebrows. So I would like to discuss this with my colleagues. If I can understand the motion in that context, I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u391	I see Mr Kuzu nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u392	The motion in part No. 30 belongs to Mr Stoffer and Mr Ceder. That's state-of-the-art policy. I'm not gonna complain that you're gonna have to dissuade those motions, but you're gonna give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 32 is worn by just about everyone. I want to give her judgment room. I have already promised this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u393	The motion in part No. 31, I think, is something from the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u394	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u395	Thanks for the Court's judgment on the motion in part No. 32. Would the Minister, of course, like to bring this to the attention of the Prime Minister as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u396	Sure. I do not know exactly where he is at the moment, but of course he can always use a little support from Parliament. So we're going to transfer this to him as little as possible. The motion in part No. 33 by Mrs Van der Plas, I would also like to give judgment to the Chamber. That motion is also in line with the remarks I made in the debate. I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas for the motion on item No. That is really up to the colleagues of JenV and OCW. Then I'll see to it that that motion is submitted to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u397	I see Mrs van der Plas nodding, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u398	Then there's the motion in part No. 37 by Mr Van Houwelingen. She's about peace. I would like to give that motion of censure Chamber, because there is nothing in it that we are opposed to. Peace is my pious prayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u399	I assume the other motions will be dissuaded. Can you put on the motion in part no. Thirty-five short response? We were assured at that time by the former Foreign Minister: there will be no European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u400	On that motion in part No. 35 the Secretary of Defense is going to react like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u401	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u402	What a thrill. If I'm not mistaken, three motions had been tabled. One motion I have just given, after due consideration, judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u403	That's the motion in part No. 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u404	Another motion is a speech-expression. So it's not addressed to the cabinet. And there's also a motion that the Secretary of Defense will be responsible for. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u405	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. We're just gonna clean up for a little while. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u406	I heard Mr. Brekelmans say something outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u407	Yeah, we're not responding to that. That's the new policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u408	Ah, that's the new policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u409	Yes. I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to answer one more question. That was Mr Brekelmans' question on the coordination of aid measures. I mentioned the European Peace Facility. It is true that there is a slight form of coordination under this heading, but it remains, of course, that it concerns bilateral requests to individual countries, i.e. to Member States of the European Union or NATO allies. It's a bilateral matter. There is, of course, mutual contact with important countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom. I would like to say a few words about three motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 31. That is the motion tabled by Mr De Roon and Mr Van Haga in connection with the debate on aircraft defence. There is one point I would like to make of a misunderstanding. It is not the case that the Netherlands brings a full Patriot unit to Slovakia. We have been asked to contribute to that of the Germans. I need to be specific. As far as the motion is concerned, my point is that we are members of an alliance. That's what's for the collective defense of our territory. An attack on one is an attack on all. It is precisely through this cooperation that we protect the Netherlands. If the Chamber wants to know exactly what is being used, what is available in the Netherlands and whether it is about the whole air force or the whole military force, the Chamber will always be informed about it. I will never deny the Chamber any information, but the Cabinet does not agree with the position below. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 35, on the European army. Of course, it has been pointed out very often. It has also been said very often by the cabinet: there is no European army in existence, no more than there is a NATO army. The Strategic Compass doesn't mention that at all. We have a single set of forces. We'll put the units where they're needed. That could be in the UN context. That could be NATO. This could be at EU level. The motion is therefore superfluous. We don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u411	A question from Mr Van Houwelingen about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u412	I'm just trying to understand the logic. The Minister says it's not gonna happen. Then she could say, "Well, fine, vote for it."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u413	No, unnecessary motions usually dissuade the cabinet. The motion in part No. 36 assumes that there would be a contradiction between the Dutch interest, the interest of the European Union and the interest of NATO, and there is no such contradiction. For that reason, we also advise against this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u414	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-12.u415	I thank the rulers and wish them much strength and also the people of the departments and the military in their difficult work. I thank the Members of Parliament, the gentleman in the public gallery who has followed almost the entire debate, for which I thank you, and the viewers at home. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
