ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, because the subject is the debate on the Act on the determination procedure Statelessness (25687), plus the Amendment of the National Law on the Netherlands and the Passport Act as well as the withdrawal of reservations by the Convention on the status of stateless persons in connection with the determination of statelessness (35688-(R2151)). We need to get back to work and get back to work. I would like to welcome my fellow Members who will be taking part in the debate, the people in the gallery and elsewhere, and of course our unfaithful support, which will help us through this day. We have noted the speaking time from the first term. I would suggest that you use a third of that speaking time for this period. Can you agree to that? I'm finding that's true. Then that will be inserted into your bell and you will know about what you have to stick to. I will not limit the number of interruptions; after all, it is legislation. But given that there are a few other things that need to be done today, I would ask you to control and keep it short. Short interruptions are always the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Having said that, I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had a first term. We also exchanged some thoughts with each other. A number of questions remain with the Christian Union. That has to do with the following, among other things. We have had an interrupting debate, in which it was exchanged that, on the basis of Wob requests, it turned out that it is quite difficult to determine whether a stateless person who leaves the Netherlands also lands on his feet and offers perspective. In my opinion, it is also one of the wishes of this Chamber to ensure that someone with the status of stateless can actually take steps forward. There are still concerns about that and there is a question to be asked. At the time when a person is granted a statelessness recognition and is not received by another country or by the former residence, therefore does not have the prospect of becoming a national and then getting home, work and so on, will this be included in the adoption procedure? That is a very important point for the Christian Union. Because we want to prevent people from getting the status of stateless but then going on for years to get their lives in order. This is not the starting point for the Christian Union, and many organisations agree with it. There's a phone ringing, but it's not mine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	No, that wasn't your ringtone. It was the Secretary of State's. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr President, my time is running out. I have tabled an amendment for the evaluation. I like it better to put it in a motion anyway, so I'll read it out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Act establishing the procedure provides for a certain number of rights to be conferred by the Convention on the Status of stateless persons, the amendment of the National Law on Dutch Citizenship, the amendment of the Passport Act and the withdrawal of reservations;]] [[Whereas it is important to evaluate the effectiveness of the adjustments and to identify a number of (unintended) impacts (e.g. potential evidence problems, barriers to departure, deliberate misuse of procedures);]] [[invites the Cabinet to carry out an external evaluation of the effectiveness and effects of the adjustments in practice within five years of the entry into force of these amendments and to forward the results to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35687-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. My next point is the decoupling of the right of residence. In the first debate there were some exchanges of views on this subject, but I am curious to see how the Secretary of State sees it, apart from the fact that they are two separate routes. I've heard from the Secretary of State about that. I'll put my concerns on the table. My real concern is that by disconnecting this, in practice people who do get the status stateless, then in an effective sense do not get a future in the Netherlands or in another country. The Secretary of State has indicated that they could go to their former residence. In theory, I can follow that, but I know few countries or actually no country that receives a stateless person, i.e. not a national, benevolent, even though the person has lived there regularly or irregularly. I was wondering whether the Secretary of State could in theory recognize these practical obstacles and, if so, explain why the link is unnecessary and how people who experience such a practical problem can in practice build a future here or in another country. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we had the first part of this important debate on the legislative proposals before us on statelessness. Just as then, I would like to emphasise that D66 is very pleased that this law is being dealt with now, because stateless persons deserve protection. Without papers, you are nothing in this country, but without nationality much less. If these laws are passed, unfortunately we are not there yet. Not all problems have been solved in the same way, but we are taking an important step in the right direction, although that step has been very long overdue. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers in the first term. I would like to make the issue of the innocence procedure explicit. In my first term, I indicated that my group has some concerns about the uncertainties about how statelessness will be weighed in the out-of-debt procedure. The Council of State also pointed this out in its reply. D66 would like to see more clarity there, if possible a clear framework. We also discussed a possible inclusion in an AMvB during the previous debate. I had asked a number of very specific questions on this subject, which the Secretary of State would come back to in his second term. I'm very curious about the answers. Finally, in my first term, I had also asked how municipalities could be as well prepared as possible for the coming of this law and what is expected of them, so that they can also help these people well and quickly. This question had not yet been answered, so please reply. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. D66 is very happy that we have finally dealt with this law. Let's get stateless people back to something soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have a brief question: what is D66's position on the linking of the right of residence to statelessness?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	That is a question which, of course, has come back a great deal, even in the previous debate. I told you back then, I understand this question. I understand that there is a difference between the asylum procedure and the statelessness procedure, so that is two separate things. But I do find it very strange, hence my questions just now: that statelessness is not taken into account more seriously in the procedure of innocence. I am therefore very interested in the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	I see Mr Van Dijk nodding satisfied. I thank you and give the floor to Mrs Kröger. She speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. I also speak for the PvdA. Unfortunately, after my term I have to move on to other chamber obligations, but we will follow the debate further digitally. Today we complete the treatment of an important law. A law designed to finally comply with an international treaty of 1961. A treaty that aims to end statelessness. That's the point. And that might be exactly my dilemma. This law is a first step. Statelessness can finally be established. That is an important step. We recognise statelessness, but we do not end it, because statelessness is of course only ended when people have a place and a community that they are part of, with all the rights that go with it. That's what this is all about in the end. That was the intention of the treaty. I quote Hans Achterhuis: "The greatest paradox of human rights is, at the same time, the greatest disgrace: it turns out that they do not or hardly apply to the people for whom they are intended. The human being who is only human does not appear to be able to rely on human rights. For example, they are stateless persons (...). For them, human rights are a utopia, in the sense of an unachievable dream. Human rights can only be invoked for the people who have the citizenship of a State." Mr. Chairman. We will support this law because it is a step forward, but we object to the minimal interpretation of the Treaty. In the debate, we discussed in detail the criterion of innocence. My colleagues were just talking about that. In practice, this is a difficult procedure, especially for stateless persons, because where is the foreign government to which they must turn? Statelessness will be taken into account in the application of the out-of-debt criterion, as is always promised, but this is not explained or explained in detail. Mr. Chairman. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to turn it around and, in the case of the established statelessness, to honour the criterion of innocence, unless there are serious interests which oppose the issue of a residence permit. To this end, we shall table the next motion, together with Mr Piri. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State lacks a detailed explanation of how the out-of-debt criterion will be applied in the case of recognised statelessness and therefore it is not clear to what extent established statelessness weighs into the out-of-debt procedure;]] [[Whereas the Council of State has previously recommended that, in the event of established statelessness, a real and effective possibility of obtaining a residence permit should be provided;]] [[calls on the Government to pay for a claim of over-indebtedness in the event of established statelessness, unless major interests oppose the issuing of a residence permit, and to regularly inform the Court, for example in the budget, of the way in which the out-of-debt criterion is applied, explicitly addressing debt and statelessness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35687-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	I thank you and wish you a good day. The others, too, but they're not leaving yet. Yes, Mr. Van Dijk, do I wish you a good day every morning? Let's make a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	Look, I just wanted to hear that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	Maybe we can turn that into a podcast. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his reply in the first term. I would like to hear a response to the amendment to item No. 9 by GroenLinks and PvdA on the linking of the right of residence to statelessness. I would also like to hear a response to the amendment on item No. 10 by Mrs Koekkoek, which gives de facto all stateless persons the opportunity to establish their statelessness. It is important to establish very precisely the implications of these amendments so that I can give a good opinion to my group. Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Secretary of State for answering my questions concerning the so-called pardoners. Those are the people who were pardoned by a general in 2007, but not yet a passport. To that end, I had tabled a motion. The Secretary of State now writes that just over 1,000 applications for a passport have been granted. That's good. But according to my information, it's about 11,000 pardoners. Are there not unnecessary obstacles for people applying for passports, for example as regards integration? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw colleagues' attention to the publication of a book on the experiences of one of the pardoners. That's Yosef Tekeste-Yemane. His book In Holland is a house coming out on June 15th. I was allowed to contribute to that. I would strongly advise you to read that book. I'll keep you posted on developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	I really wonder what the second part of Mr Jasper van Dijk's term has to do with the law on statelessness. I think it is a very different issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	That is what I said in my first term. The Secretary of State was kind enough to inform me nevertheless about the progress of these people. That's who I am, he says. I knew that. That's why I asked those questions. I expect that I will have an excellent answer in the second term. And then he gets that book.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	Good. Thank you very much. I call Mr Brekelmans of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. As indicated in the first deadline, the VVD welcomes the establishment of a procedure to establish the status of stateless persons. This gives them clarity and gives them the things they are entitled to. We therefore support the first part of this law. On the second part of the law, the right of option to Dutch citizenship for stateless children born in the Netherlands, the VVD is still concerned. Stateless parents who are not entitled to stay in the Netherlands have a reason to stack procedures, frustrate departure and evade supervision. We have seen this happen on a large scale before when similar arrangements existed around the children's pardon. That is why the safeguards in the law that discourage this behavior are so important. The determination of stable main residence for at least 10 years is crucial for this. But now amendments are being tabled that precisely remove these safeguards, adapt the definition of "stable main residence" to "main residence" and reduce the minimum from ten to five years. The lesson after the previous children's pardon was that we do not want rules that encourage procedures to be stacked and departure frustrated. The independent Van Zwol committee wrote this in 140 pages. That report was embraced by a broad majority in the Chamber. With these amendments, part of this House is simply putting this report aside. As a result, stateless persons without the right to stay in the Netherlands will be hiding with their children for five years and will then report to apply for Dutch citizenship. I see it happening that many parties in this Chamber will complain how pathetic this is for the children affected by this behavior of the parents. The Court itself provokes this behavior with amendments of this kind. Then there are amendments that go even further by linking statelessness to the right of residence, which are two completely separate things, or which extend the definition of'statelessness', so that there are also people who do not want to apply for nationality in the country of origin. Both amendments are undesirable as far as the VVD is concerned and would substantially amend the law. In short, the amendments as they have now been tabled lead to undesirable situations for stateless persons and their children and undermine our asylum and migration policies. It has been extended by the Secretary of State in the debate and has been dissuaded by many arguments. The more these amendments are adopted by the Chamber, the less likely my group will be to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. I understand that Mr Markuszower is abandoning a second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first term, we have called attention to the definition of statelessness. That is what the amendment has just been referred to. I would just like to explain why we believe that we have also tabled the amendment, namely that the definition is being incorrectly implemented by the Dutch Government at the moment. The Dutch translation of the definition of statelessness is more limited than the English term, as stated in the Treaty. In English it says: under the operation of its law. I believe that the Dutch translation does not comply with the Treaty obligation. I'm very curious how the Secretary of State sees this. I'm sure that's part of the appreciation of the amendment. But I am also very curious to see how we are practically implementing the definition of de-justice in the proposed adoption procedure. I am also curious how de-facto-statelessness is resolved by the Dutch government at the time the amendment would be discouraged. Is the actual application of the law included in the assessment of de-jurisdiction, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u24	In the text of the explanatory statement to the amendment, Mrs Koekkoek writes that these would also be people who, for good reason, do not want to return to the country of origin. I would ask Mrs Koekkoek what she thinks is a valid reason. As far as I am concerned, a valid reason could be that there is a war in the country or that they are being prosecuted personally. If that is the case, they have the right to stay and obtain a residence permit and there is no problem. So what does Mrs Koekkoek see as a valid reason outside our regular asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u25	I get that question. It is not about applying for asylum. That is quite rightly stated. Let me give you a practical example. For example, it concerns someone with Palestinian parents living in Jordan who is not recognised as a national in Jordan. So that's someone who might have a home base on paper, a country of origin, but who actually doesn't have a home base. This treaty also ensures that you look not only as a country at the legal status, the law, but also at the actual status. That is why we also point out that if we, the Netherlands, implement this treaty, it must also be in the spirit of the treaty. The problem with statelessness, which we have also dealt with extensively in the first term, is that very often there is no evidence that you are stateless. So it remains a negative vicious circle: someone says not to be able to return, where the country, like the Netherlands, then asks for the papers to prove that the stateless person cannot return, on which the stateless person says: I do not have those papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Brekelmans doesn't want to... well, I don't want to provoke you, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u27	I don't think the answer is very sharp. There is now one example, but of course there are many situations. At the moment when this amendment is introduced, it widens very much and you also get situations where you can ask yourself: what is a valid reason? There can of course be all kinds of personal considerations why someone would rather stay in the Netherlands than go to another country in the world. The only question is, of course, whether, on the basis of these considerations, we should give a place here in the Netherlands to such a person, or whether we should not offer that place to someone who is really fleeing war, violence or personal persecution. So I think that the answer given by Mrs Koekkoek is not sharp enough to say that this is really necessary and desirable given the wider reception problem we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u28	Perhaps to respond a little more clearly: two things are now being mixed up: statelessness and asylum applications. The moment someone's out of state, he doesn't have a country of origin. That's exactly why it's such a miserable problem in the world. I hear the Secretary of State say that is not true, but it is true, because of course everyone was born somewhere in a territory in the world, but that has no value at all when you are not recognized by such a country. Suppose I don't have any ID here in the Netherlands, then I can't do anything. So I might have been born here, but I don't have a message for that. To say that it is one example: the ASKV has a whole book with examples of where statelessness has been a problem for people. I am giving this example now, but it may also be that someone does not have certain birth papers or that someone in his country of origin is discriminated against. This is the case, for example, with Palestinians and Jordan. Why is it so important to have that definition sharp? Not to stir up the mistrust that Mr Brekelmans may have, but because de-jure-statelessness is exactly the problem that the UNHCR also says: it is very often not in the papers; it is very often about the actual circumstances. Those are not the people who deliberately lose their papers or consciously have children to stay here. They're people who end up in an administrative catch 22, whose treaty says, "You have to recognize those people." That can't always be based on the papers. You also have to assess the actual circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. Mr. Brekelmans still?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u30	I have one final question. What I particularly welcome is that Mrs Koekkoek says in the explanatory statement to the amendment: do not want to return. There are all kinds of situations where it can be difficult in practice, because a country does not take stateless persons back. It was said a few moments ago. But Mrs Koekkoek makes it even wider and says: for justified reasons, we do not want to return. Of course, it'll be very gray. For then someone can say that he has less future prospects there than in this country, because education is less there. Is that a valid reason not to want to return? In this type of policy, whether it is about asylum policy or nationality law, if you open the door to the words 'don't want to', you create an enormous grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, all right, but this is, of course, one rule in the amendment that has been tabled. I can imagine that the explanatory statement is being addressed, but I think it is a little faint to say that it is all about the subjective experience of someone who calls himself stateless. Of course it's not about that. There is also simply a review here. When we find that someone simply has papers and documents and a country of origin to which he can return, it is of course outside the scope of this amendment. We should not be too complicated about that either, as if this review were not to take place. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I'd like to explain. The College of Human Rights has also said that the definition of statelessness in the bill here in the Netherlands is quite limited. The UNHCR, the organisation from which the Convention comes, says that we must define a stateless person as a person who is not considered a national by any state under its rules. So you look very closely at the regulations of the country itself. The present legislative proposal maintains a very limited interpretation, which does not achieve the substance of the Treaty. But that has nothing to do with whether someone indicates that he wants to live here in the Netherlands because the sun shines here so often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you. That's all we're gonna do. Finally, Mr Slootweg of the CDA has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, also on behalf of Mrs Kuik, for the first-term answers given. I think it has been discussed intensively. It's important that we get a law that regulates statelessness. I have two more questions, which have not yet been fully addressed. First of all... Our group notes that only a small number of countries have such a decision-making procedure. It is striking, for example, that Scandinavian countries and Germany and Austria do not yet have such a procedure. Does the Secretary of State see a role for himself to see if it can be done more broadly, so that more countries can come to such a decision procedure, because these countries have signed the treaties as well? My second point is somewhat in line with Mrs Podt's question. A number of large municipalities, in my opinion in a letter dated 28 April, have expressed some concern; there was also the word "customisation" in it, as something that concerns people. We ourselves read the letter as a call to stay in contact with each other. The letter seems to offer an opening, in the sense that you should not arrange it at municipal level. However, I believe that it is best to do it through the courts, as agreed at the moment, but that does not alter the fact that I always take the concerns of municipalities seriously. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u34	There is another interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yeah, I have the same question. How does the CDA view the linking of the right of residence to statelessness?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u36	We have far fewer questions about this than other groups. We really see that as a separate procedure, but it may indeed be that the answer from the Secretary of State sheds another light on it. So we like to wait for that answer, but at first we do not see a direct link and we think it is a separate procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u37	We also have to consider a final assessment, but of course there is now an amendment that proposes linking it up, which is also the intention of the UN Convention. Moreover, there is no question of suction, as is stated in Trouw this morning. Then what is your opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u38	In my view, a number of questions have already been asked and the Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to come back to that. At first we do see a difference between them, but it can always be that the answers shine a different light on them. So we'd like to let them work on us first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you very much. I'll suspend until 10:50, and then we'll continue with the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u40	I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr President. For starters, I like that the PvdA and GroenLinks have indicated that they want to support the laws, even though they are not here anymore. In any case, that is extremely pleasant. I'm going to do my best to earn Mr. Van Dijk's book. Your RANOV question was: are there any unnecessary obstacles to pardoners when it comes to the passport? Mr. Brekelmans was of course a bit right with his reaction to you, but still. As you know, we have changed the policy on identity and nationality documents. They therefore no longer have to renounce their original nationality. With the expiry of the document requirement, that barrier has also been removed for RANOVs to obtain Dutch citizenship. The state of affairs at the moment is, I am talking about 1 May, if you will allow 3,250 naturalization requests to be received. Of these 3,250, more than 2,200 requests were dealt with and accepted by the IND. Mr. Chairman. Then I shall continue with the proposals themselves. I shall start with the amendments immediately, because I will take up a number of questions immediately. I'll take a look at Mr. Ceder. Mr Ceder has today tabled a motion with a five-year deadline, but in my folder there was also an amendment by Mr Ceder on an evaluation. Since amendment for law comes before motion, I thought: something goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u42	I'm sure Mr Ceder has a good explanation for that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u43	Absolutely. I indicated in my term that I think it would be wiser or better to put it in a motion. It doesn't necessarily have to be in the law. So I withdraw my amendment. Can I do so, or should I do so in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u44	We can do that now. Then we just need to know the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u45	I shall therefore withdraw it, and I hope, of course, that the Secretary of State will be pardoned on my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr President, I will not be giving you any more text on that either. The motion gets judgment Chamber. It just seems extremely good to do that after five years, but I make one exception. That is a commitment to Mr Slootweg of the CDA. Your question was about the letter from the municipalities of April 28th. Among other things, there is the element that is about obvious statelessness. What if there is another fifth or sixth criterion on top of the four criteria currently in force? I didn't intend to include a fifth or a sixth in the law now, or to give more room in it. But we should not wait for Mr Ceder's five years to meet the local authorities. When we find that there is a fifth or sixth exception, where it is obvious, we are not going to wait for the five years; then we are going to deal with it more quickly. It's possible. Then there is the amendment to item No. 8 by Mrs Kröger. She is not here, but I will tell you what my thoughts are on that. I'd advise against that. That's about the possible appeal. Why do I advise against that? Because it was chosen to apply the same system as in Article 17 of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. Moreover, this is a very complicated dossier, as with the Dutchmanship. That is why we choose a court that has exclusive jurisdiction, so that there are specialties. There is also a possibility of cassation at the Supreme Court. That is why I am voting in favour of this amendment. 8 by Mrs Kröger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Then there is the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Kröger and Mrs Piri on a residence permit or asylum for stateless people. If stateless people want a residence permit, they can just go into the asylum procedure. The asylum procedure will show whether they are entitled to asylum. There is no difference between a stateless person entering an asylum procedure or a non-stateless person. We test according to the same criteria. If the stateless person meets the criteria for obtaining a residence permit, then she or he gets it. I think we should keep it that way. It would be weird if we gave stateless people the right to do so faster than regular asylum applicants who are non-stateless. In that sense too, therefore, I would advise against Mrs Kröger's and Mrs Piri's amendments. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u47	Just a moment, because I see gentlemen coming to the microphone. The first is Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'm following the State Secretary's response, but what's his response to the article in Trouw this morning? It states: it is also the intention of the UN Convention to end statelessness. This amendment achieves that. There would be no evidence for such an aspirant effect abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u49	Apart from the fact that I have not read the article in Trouw, which means that I cannot respond to it, it is true that the intention of the treaty is to make statelessness disappear. That is not the same as it should disappear because every state has to say: everyone who is stateless and in our country gets our nationality. I will come back to the question from the CDA about the number of countries that have not only ratified but also worked on the Convention. We should not get the situation that we in the Netherlands say that everyone who is in the Netherlands and is stateless automatically gets a permit. For then I dispute the thesis that you say is in Trouw. It's not that I doubt you, but I put it this way, because I haven't read the Wedding. Sorry, I shouldn't say "you" at all, because you didn't say anything at all, Mr. Chairman, but you understand my point. In any case, I dispute the view expressed by Mr Van Dijk on behalf of Trouw that it could not have any effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u50	Finally, I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that Spain, France and Hungary are referred to as countries which have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u51	I don't dispute that. Nevertheless, we are making our own assessment. I can also mention examples from France, Spain and Hungary, especially from Hungary, where you and I believe we should not follow the Hungarian Government. That is precisely why we are simply making our own assessment here. I just gave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u52	Then I come to Mr Ceder for his interruption, if I have seen it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u53	Maybe the Secretary of State will come back to it, because I had asked a question about it. The concern of the Christian Union is that if we do not link this up, there will be a hopeless situation for a number of people, which none of us want. There are people who are stateless but who are not covered by the asylum ground because there is no war and conflict, and who are de facto unable to return or for whom this is very complicated because there are no countries that receive non-nationals. So I asked a question about that. That does mean that people are told "you have to cooperate on departure," but what then? That is why my question is also whether this is clearly addressed in the procedure for the recovery of debts. This is a very important weighting for us, because in a few years' time we will not be standing here again in debates with political questions because we have not handled it properly. That is where our sincere concern lies. I hope you can take it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr President, that is the disadvantage of doing so by responding to amendments. Perhaps I could have removed the concerns of not only the Christian Union but also D66 on this point. When it comes to stateless people, there is a different coloring of the declaration of innocence than that of asylum seekers. We are talking about asylum seekers who have been rejected, because if they have been honored, they are not guilty. It is obvious that stateless people are more likely to be eligible for an out-of-debt declaration, because it will be much quicker to establish that they cannot do anything about it that they cannot return. I believe that the last time I wronged him, Mr Van Dijk referred to it as "the Rohingya" as an example. I think you and I can assume that stateless Rohingya will find it difficult to return to their country of origin. In that case, we are talking about an indemnification, and that is why we need to deal more flexibly with it than with regular asylum seekers with a nationality. In that case, international law simply applies, which says that every country must take back citizens who are nationals of that country. Then it is my job, I will also say to the Chamber for a moment, to ensure that those countries also take back people who cannot stay in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u55	We are indeed taking steps in framing and coloring the out-of-debt procedure. I'm glad to hear that statelessness is more important. In the end, the Secretary of State says that it is obvious that countries must comply with the rule that you take back your nationals with that nationality. That is not the case with statelessness. Many of the Rohingya are stateless; I understand that, that is obvious. But that is a different situation from, for example, a country such as China or Ethiopia: even though someone has obviously grown up in China or Ethiopia, those countries do not recognise that person, who is therefore declared stateless in the Netherlands. Then it is said: you were born or raised there, you go back to Ethiopia, because you have no right of residence here, you have to cooperate in the departure. But Ethiopia says: nice and nice that that person has ever stayed here, but he is not a subject, so we have no obligation to take him back. I think there are a lot of such regular cases, because I do not know any countries that say 'non-nationals, come on'. How do we deal with that? That's the crux for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u56	Then I didn't express myself very well. When it comes to people with a nationality, I think we should do the best we can to ensure that we do not stay in the Netherlands at the end of an asylum procedure. We're talking about stateless people here. They are, by definition, people without nationality. Then you can see in the examples mentioned by Mr Ceder that these people cannot be returned, even though they have grown up in China and have lived there all their lives, just to quote that example. When the Chinese Government says: we simply do not recognise them as a national of our country, they cannot return to the country of origin. So they want to cooperate on return, but they can't, and then there's an out-of-debt statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u57	I am, however, positive about these words from the Secretary of State. But I'm curious. The Council of State explicitly states in its comments on the legislative proposal that you should therefore provide clear frameworks for this. Because the word of the Secretary of State is of course very nice, but it would be nice if we could see clearly on paper what that means in practice. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work that out, for example in an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u58	I want to do that through policy rules and not through an AMvB, but that doesn't matter to you as a Chamber, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u59	I see a satisfied Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u60	Well, that's the most beautiful thing you can strive for. Then there is Mrs Koekkoek's amendment on extending the definition to defacto-statelessness. I'm sorry, but I don't recommend that amendment. Part of this is not recommended based on the discussion that took place between Mrs Koekkoek and Mr Brekelmans. Mrs Koekkoek pointed out that the fact that people do not want to go back, in obvious cases, is no ground. If there is an innocence statement I have just spoken to Mr Ceder about, then it is obvious. But if you can go back, but don't want to go back... Then Mrs Koekkoek can say: that is very rare. That is true, but this is clearly not about people who do not want to. If that is the case, it is people who are not capable of doing so. That is the very starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u61	Is it then specifically the word "want" in the explanatory statement? I heard in the exchange between Mr Ceder and Mrs Podt exactly what factual statelessness is. My question then is: why should we solve it with policy rules if we can deal with it directly in this law? Then that review will also be dealt with immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u62	No. I can still hear a difference from at least my conversation with Mr Ceder. That is the difference: if you have a nationality, but your country refuses to take you back, it is primarily up to us to make it clear that it has to comply with the international obligations that exist. Then you can say: yes, but de facto people do not have nationality, because the country does not want to take them back. But that's not true. A country may say 'I don't want to take you back', but if you do have that nationality, that country simply has that obligation to take on. When it comes to stateless people, those obligations don't apply. You and I may find that moral, but that is not to be enforced on the basis of constitutional situations. That is why I am very strongly in favour of the law, not the de facto one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u63	I'm just looking at it thinking, because I'm wondering if we're not bouncing into semantics. If someone isn't recognized by a state, then we can... I think that was also the case just now. If a person has grown up in Ethiopia or China, but is not seen by that State as such and is therefore not recognised as a national of, then he has no nationality. Because nationality is a paper. That's useful when you can do something with it, when there's recognition. That's what stateless people are all about. Everyone is born somewhere in the world, but you don't get a paper everywhere and therefore you don't get permission to go back to the country of which you are a national. When a less restrictive explanation is given to the judge or when factual circumstances are added to the bill, it would cover that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u64	There are two variants. You have a nationality, or you have no nationality. If you do not have a nationality, you can in many cases not return to the country of origin, because that country says: we do not recognise that person has our nationality and therefore do not see that person as one of our nationals. So you're stateless and the discussion that's just been held applies. Or you have a nationality, but the country doesn't want you back. The only difference between the first and second situations is that in the first situation you have no nationality and the country does not want to take you back, and that in the second situation you do have a nationality and the country does not want to take you back. But we should not go to a country where it says that someone has our nationality and that they can prove it, because they have a nationality document, but we do not take that person back. That is the defacto situation that Mrs Koekkoek is talking about. Otherwise there is a de-jure situation and we are not talking about a de-jure situation. In a de-facto situation, you just have to address the country and say: listen, your resident is entitled to return, because you have committed yourself to that internationally. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mrs. Koekkoek is thinking. I'll give you one more chance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u66	Maybe just a little more clarification. In my view, it is now quite clear that there is a broad definition of 'the lack of justice'. At the moment when we can guarantee that this will be done in a judicial review, there is really nothing to worry about. But as it stands on paper, it also offers freedom for a more restrictive interpretation. That's why I'm wondering: why don't we get it right in the law? At the moment when the Secretary of State describes that someone physically has a paper in his hands and can prove it, we are no longer talking about factual statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u67	This is just not going well in my head, because you have a nationality or you have no nationality. At the moment you have a nationality, it is not so that you can stay in the Netherlands, assuming that there is no situation of persecution. That is not what we are talking about, of course, because then the asylum procedure will apply, with the result that you will be allowed to stay once that has been established. So then it is my job as Secretary of State to say to country X or Y: "Listen, Mrs Koekkoek has your nationality. You must take Mrs. Koekkoek back." Only, I cannot say that to a country if Mrs Koekkoek has no nationality. So she's legally stateless and we're going into the legal procedure we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u68	I hope in any case that the end result is that Mrs Koekkoek can stay here; let me not say that completely neutrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u69	That's up to the voter, chairman, and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u70	In all other examples, the law will have to do its job. Mrs. Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u71	This little debate still raises a question in my mind about the commitment the Secretary of State just made on the policy rules. I think that commitment is very positive in itself, but I am wondering the following. It is, of course, very nice if the Secretary of State wants to move countries to take back their nationals, the people who do have nationality. Only, my question is, how long are we gonna wait for that? If a country continues to persevere "we don't take these people back" over and over again, year after year, of course we don't hope that, but let's say that these people are in a kind of limbo in which they can't do anything and in which we in the Netherlands can't do anything with those people. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u72	I understand Mrs Podt's point, but at the same time I think that even Mrs Podt does not want us as the Netherlands to say: if a country does not want to take back a national and that lasts long enough, it will still be entitled to a status here. I do know some groups of people who are not taken back by the country of origin and which we often talk about in the asylum procedure. So we really have to apply the strict variant that you cannot stay here if you are a national of country X or Y and do not meet the criteria that you are allowed to stay here on the basis of prosecutions. Of course, this is not always a matter of whether or not your country says: we are not taking you back. Then I have a few thousand people on offer for Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u73	I can see what the Secretary of State is referring to. What I find complicated is that the Secretary of State is making this a very binary situation, while there is, of course, just some sort of grey area. I think that's also at the heart of the little debate we just had. I do think that we should take care of the fate of those who really do their best and want them back, but in which the country perseveres endlessly 'these people are not with us', for whatever reason. Otherwise we will create a group of people who cannot participate in the Netherlands. I think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u74	But then it may also be clear that the declaration of innocence, which we were just talking about, is de facto and decriminal. After all, the question is: can you do something about it if you are sent back, yes or no? We can expect anyone who is not allowed to stay in the Netherlands to cooperate as much as possible in returning to the country of origin. If that is refused, we cannot expel him or her from the country, because one cannot de facto return. Well, that's actually the out-of-debt statement we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr. Ceder would like to say a few words on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u76	Of course, we can expect anyone who is stateless and could return to their homes to make an attempt to return. In practice over the years it has also been shown that a lot of stateless people have actually been here for a long time, sometimes even since the 1980s. Sometimes people have been here for 40 years because they couldn't go back. But there was also no procedure in the Netherlands. They've found their way. By now, they have reached or have already reached retirement age. I'll just call them "the seniors." They may have spent more than half their lives in our country because they couldn't go back. So they're not here because they'd train the place. I wonder whether this will be taken into account in the adoption procedure. So I'm not talking about people who are trying to train for the short term, but about people who we just know have been here for an x-number of years. Those cases are there. Some have been here since the 1980s or even earlier. They have now come to an age when building a new life elsewhere becomes quite cleverly complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u77	I find this complicated. I'm going to use a stimulating word now. This question seems to be a bit about some sort of general pardon. We say: if you have stayed in the Netherlands long enough... I see that Mr Ceder is smiling in a certain way at the moment. He seems to think: I understand that the Secretary of State is using this word now and I also understand the sensitivity of it. That's exactly what I'm trying to make clear. I do not think that we should in any way create a situation in which we give people the right to a general pardon. That's something we all shouldn't want. In my view, Mr Ceder does not mean that either, but it could have been the outcome if I had now replied to Mr Ceder with 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u78	This is not an entrapment to the Secretary of State to call off a general pardon with each other. But I'm trying to point out that there are circumstances that do have an effect on whether anyone could return. And if that person could return, is he also able to be self-reliant and provide his means of subsistence? I am talking in particular about people who are not only long-term here, but also at an age, so who are at or have already reached retirement age. Those groups are in this country. My question is whether these circumstances can also be taken into account in the overall weighting of whether someone could claim a residence permit in an out-of-debt procedure. So that's my question. I'm not talking about a generic measure. I ask whether this circumstance can be a factor. Can someone build another life elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u79	Then I will stay away from the two legislative proposals that are before us, and then I will stay very clearly away from a new measure, new policy and so on. But in general, when someone should be deported to the country of origin, the specific situation is also considered. Think, for example, of a situation where someone is seriously ill or needs certain medicines. Then we'll see if that's possible in the country of origin. The infrastructure in the country of origin may be such that a seriously ill person who would go there would suffer disproportionate damage. Let me give you the example of a seriously ill person. Because illness is something that no one chooses, but what happens to you. The rest could be a choice. So let me give you this example. Then the answer is: yes, that's what's being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u80	I think we should leave it at that. Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to two rather exciting amendments. The first is about stable residence and the second is about ten to five years. I strongly advise against the amendment on stable residence. I also think that we should not go from ten to five, but from ten to five is a choice, and I make the choice for ten and not for five years. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But if we were to accept the amendment on stable residence, we would set up a reward that people have left the government. I believe that judgments that have been made, for example by the judge, should simply be followed by you, by me and also by people who have to leave the country. What we shouldn't want with each other is that, if a verdict is made that you have to leave the country, you don't stick to it. We shouldn't want you to end up being "rewarded" if you withdraw from the government. That is why I would almost like to say this amendment: it is highly inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u82	I note that the amendments to documents Nos. 9 and 10 are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u83	No, this is about Amendment No. 9. Yes, Amendment No. I'm going to dissuade 10 too, but I'm going to say something else about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u84	Okay, but we're not there yet. Then the amendment to item No. 9 dissuaded. And Mr Segers has a question about that. Mr Segers? What makes you think I'm gonna do that? Mr. Ceder has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u85	I don't know where you got that from, Mr. President. Of course, I feel like a co-subscriber. Let me say first of all that the Council of State agrees with this. Let me also point out that the approach is not that deliberately training and abuse should be rewarded. I don't think that's the case for anyone in the Chamber. What we are talking about, of course, is a situation which occasionally does occur. What the Secretary of State is now referring to is the situation in which someone cooperates on departure and is actually constantly in the picture and stays with the IND. So it is specifically about the IND being able to send letters and say "come by" et cetera, and that someone is constantly following them. I think that is what the Secretary of State means by'main residence'. What is to be said about this is what organisations, the Council of State and also the proposers mean by this: there are situations in which people are not hiding, but are simply present in this country, where children go to school, they are active in the neighbourhood association and they are in care. There is therefore no question of hiding. But it may be that the contact with the IND, for any reason that can be for example a move has been watered down. Then you can't say out loud, at least in some cases, that there really was "absorbing" and "non-cooperative." The word "stable" makes it more complicated. So I'm trying to reassure the Secretary of State on the one hand that his doom scenario is not meant to be. You can frame in policy rules how you can prevent the group that is deliberately in hiding from showing up at some point. But there is also a middle way, in which the removal of "stable" meets the concerns of people who suffer from it, so that they can still be saved, but which also responds to the concerns of the Secretary of State. I would like to give you this to convince the Secretary of State that it is really not that bad and perhaps it is a sensible amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u86	We're gonna listen to what the Secretary of State thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u87	I would almost like to reflect now, Mr President, by telling Mr Ceder that with my story I am trying to convince Mr Ceder and try to reassure him that my story is wise. Suppose you stay in the Netherlands and just report a move to the government every time, but something goes wrong on the part of the government, namely that it doesn't handle your move properly. Then you can report: listen, I just reported to the government that I moved, but an administrative error has been committed by the government; so it's not my fault that I disappeared from the picture, but it's up to you, the government, that I disappeared from the picture. That is a different situation than when you disappear out of the picture by your own actions and therefore avoid the ability of the government to implement, for example, a court ruling. Because if we don't know where you are, we can't make that statement. There should be no reward, hence the choice of words in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u88	I also feel a bit attracted, because I heard in the text of the Secretary of State a little bit the suggestion that Mr Ceder and I are some sort of cowboys who want everyone to go into hiding and break the law. Far from it, of course. The Council of State, Mr Ceder, also mentioned it quite clearly in his comments, said that this would have to be different. I wonder why the Secretary of State does not follow this advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u89	I can honestly say here that I have never seen Mrs Podt in the role of cowboy, and I can't imagine that moment ever coming. That is not the case. The point here is that as a cabinet, we say: you can have certain rights, but you also have to keep certain duties. One of the obligations that apply to everyone who is within the Kingdom is: you abide by the law. That means that at the moment when the law, the judge, the government, says "you have to leave the country," you have to cooperate. One of the elements of cooperation is that we know where you are, because if we do not know where you are, you will not be able to participate in the implementation of a decision that has been taken. That is why, in this case, we are very strongly in favour of the wording we have chosen. If you choose the formulation of in this case D66 and the Christian Union, again, I do not assume bad intentions of the two of you, absolutely not...................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Ceder, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thanks for the exchange. I think it's going to be more of an arbitrary discussion, and that's very unwise. I think I heard the Secretary of State say: it's good to put in the law "no, unless"; a mistake by the government or a mistake that can happen. The proposal of D66 and the Christian Union says: yes, unless there is obvious abuse. But in practice, you'll come up with the same thing, won't you? In both cases you give the IND the space and the handles to perform the assignment given to them and in both cases you give room for customization, as I call it. Do you agree with me that it is not necessarily very unwise, but actually an arbitrary discussion of whether it is 'yes, unless' or 'no, unless' and that in both cases the IND should have sufficient space to deal with abuse and at the same time offer tailor-made solutions in any cases? In recent years there have been statements in which this discussion occasionally occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u92	On many points, I always try to see if I can build a bridge between a Member of Parliament and myself, but on this point I really have to say to Mr Ceder that we really disagree. Because the moment we opt for the amendment, at least, which you choose for the amendment tabled by Mr Ceder, among others, means that the text is no longer "stable" but "simple stay" and the strict criterion is therefore dropped and the normal stay always applies, while the strict policy also applies that there can be an exception... And then my glasses broke; there goes a leg. Now I can't read anything. At the time... sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm a little upset. At the time... where was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u93	In my opinion, you did not agree with Mr Ceder. We can also see that. That's common in this house. That doesn't scare us all so much. That's actually kind of why we're here together: to tell each other that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u94	I've got it again! I was a little distracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u95	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u96	So the moment we opt for stable residence, where someone can prove that the person has done everything he can to stay in the sight of the government, but where the government has made a mistake, you can say: best government, here is an exception. That is not the case when you choose the Ceder-Podt variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u97	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u98	I'll do it like this. Then there is the amendment to item No. Ten over ten and five years. If you are legally resident in the Netherlands, you can claim already after three years. We have emphasized that, at the moment when this is not the case, we are choosing the ten years. In doing so, we make the clear distinction between three years for the people who were rightfully here and ten years for the people who were not rightfully here. This is also what we want to radiate. There are rules for a reason. You have to stick to that. In this case, those who do not comply will have the opportunity, after three years, to deal with the possibility rather than the one who did not comply with the rules. That is why we explicitly opt for the ten years and not for the five years of the Podt-Ceder duo. I'm clearly in it. I therefore advise against the amendment. The President had already concluded that. The difference with that first one is... I think it's even more important that you don't accept the first one as a Chamber, because that's really a very direct reward for unwanted behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u99	I've had maths in high school before. I think there's also a difference between five years and three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u100	As a math teacher, I can confirm that. And then you haven't even had my lesson! We're straying. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u101	What do you expect me to say? That there's no difference between three and five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u102	I thought it was a rather remarkable argument. We want there to be a difference. Then you can discuss it or you'll think that that difference is necessary. I think the amendment is five years old. I guess there still isn't a very big one... I just thought that argument was a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u103	I really think that if you don't follow the rules, you just shouldn't be able to claim certain rights. Only it says in this treaty that you get those rights after a maximum of ten years. I think we should implement treaties, so we'll do what we agreed on. That's ten years. But extra reward by making those ten years five years, I just don't think that's the issue, because rules are there for a reason. They just apply. But we've committed ourselves to those ten years, so we can't get out of it, no matter what Mrs Podt and I think of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u104	Yeah, I think there's some of that, too. Among other things, I have some difficulty with the repeated use of "reward." That is the same suggestion every time, because of course there is also an analogy to the debate of just... People make mistakes. I make mistakes. The Secretary of State makes mistakes. I'm sure you, Mr. Chairman, make mistakes from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u105	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u106	I find it difficult for us to assume that people deliberately deceive our system. Besides, we're talking about kids here. Nor do we say: do not create any barriers. We say, after five years, give those children the chance to be truly part of the Netherlands. That is our proposal. It's no more ferocious than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u107	It is true that that is Mrs Podt's proposal. It is also true that even you and I make mistakes every day. In my view, this is not a mistake. A mistake can always be made. You don't put a check mark or you fill out a form wrong; things like that can happen. That's different from staying illegally in a particular country. That's not a mistake. That's the big difference we're talking about here. You just don't stick to the law. That's not a mistake, that's just not sticking to the law. That is why I say: we have to abide by the treaty. We have not complied with this treaty for a very long time, but we are going to do so now. I'll be there in a minute towards the CDA on those other countries. But then we will also stick to the agreements we have made with those other countries. That's ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u108	Last chance, Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u109	I would like to comment briefly on something that was discussed in the previous period. That was about the fact that the Secretary of State insists that there would be a sucking effect. I'm still curious how he sees that. We have also looked closely at the figures during the pause between these two debates, but we can see that in no country where this is already being done there is any mention of them. Does the Secretary of State still think this is an issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u110	I cannot share Mrs Podt's conclusion. That's because there are a lot of factors that determine whether someone who comes from a particular country goes to country X or to country Y. There may be a factor that determines you're going to France, but at the same time there may be a factor that doesn't allow you to go to France. In other words, Spain, for example, is very close to certain countries, but unemployment is much higher there. On the one hand, there is the factor "we have to go mainly to Spain, because that is nice and close," but on the other hand there is the factor "but we just get a job less quickly." It is the same when it comes to this kind of regulation. People choose a particular country. It is not always the case, but sometimes people have a very strong reason to choose the Netherlands, for example because their family lives here, because there is a large community here or because of something else. But we also see that when rules change, this affects people who come from a particular country to the Netherlands to see whether they can apply for asylum, yes or no. The moment people think "you can get the Dutchmanship easier for your children and through your children in the Netherlands," that is a factor that plays a part. And no, that doesn't mean I see the hordes knocking at the border right away, apart from the fact that I'm not of that choice of words. But it is a factor that can play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u111	Finalizing, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u112	The Secretary of State has given the appreciation. Then there's the IND that finally makes the decision. We are, of course, in a cultural change, so I would like to call it "in which we also look at obvious hardnesses in which you give space and confidence to the performer. I haven't seen it come back into the law, but does the IND have room in the policy rules to decide for itself on obvious hardnesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u113	I don't know yet. I can think of something, and then I say no, but that is not what Mr Ceder wants to hear either. I think Mr Ceder would rather hear me say I don't know than say no now because I don't know. First, I need to think about the implications of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u114	I'm glad the Secretary of State is gonna think about this. However, I would point out that it is the trend in all implementing organisations to give confidence to the performer, so also when it comes to the possibility of getting more room in individual matters. Can I have the promise that we will come back to this? This gives me a little more peace, because I also want to say here that there is confidence in the implementation organisations that they are making the right balance. Can I get a commitment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u115	It's up to you to decide whether to return to it, but it would be nice if the Secretary of State would cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u116	How can I not participate in a request from the Chamber, President?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u117	That's why. That is also my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u118	I'm always willing to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u119	We ask politely here, but actually we just mean that if we settle that, this Secretary of State will undoubtedly come and talk to the Chamber about it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u120	In short, because I believe that there is no direct relationship between statelessness and lawful residence. That's just something that's determined in a different way. So you can be stateless with lawful residence and you can be stateless without lawful residence; this is determined according to the criteria that apply to it, but there should be no one-to-one relationship. Mrs Podt asked: are the municipalities supported in the implementation of the new option right? Yes, they will be supported in that. The manual we are going to draw up will contain all the information on it. So I can answer that question with a yes. Then Mrs. Koekkoek. I think I've been talking about the law and de facto. So I guess I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u121	I'm not gonna fight that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u122	But Mrs Podt is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u123	Oh, the motions have yet to be dealt with. Mrs Podt is right about that. There are two motions. One's already been treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u124	That was the Cedar motion on the evaluation. I already did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u125	Yes, then there is another motion from Mrs Kröger and Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u126	From Mrs Kröger and Mrs Piri. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u127	But first there's a question from Mr. Slootweg about the preceding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u128	I was wondering if the Secretary of State still had that question about the effort and possibilities around...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u129	Sorry, no, stop. I told you three times I'd come back to it. Well, I guess I'll just start with this. I haven't forgotten you, Mrs Podt, but I promised you three times. I say "yeah." And why do I say "yeah"? Look, the treaties are from 1954 and 1961 and in 2022 the Netherlands takes the tough decision to shape '54 and '61 in the law. Then you have to be a little reluctant to call out to other countries: we have things in order and you do not, hurry up. So I think we should discuss it and discuss it with each other, but if we had done it in '55 and in '62, when I don't think we all existed in this Chamber, we would have had a stronger story. So that does say something about the tone that's going to be elected, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u130	Thank you for the compliment, but I already existed in '56. Early '56, in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u131	Then it only applies to the second law, because the first law is from '54.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u132	Exactly. But I've been following it intensively since then. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u133	I take it this way. I understand the Secretary of State. Moreover, I always wonder if there is any point in waving a finger at those other countries. But also in view of the discussion that we have had here about a sucking effect, I believe that we in Europe need to be aligned on this dossier anyway, because many countries are in the same situation, even without that finger. I hear the promise as: mwah, I still see what possibilities I have for that. Then I'd like to encourage the Secretary of State to use whatever he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u134	That is just a full-bodied yes, because that was also said by a number of people here. The treaty ultimately focuses on limiting statelessness. The more countries implement it, the better it is for the contracting parties as a whole, but certainly also for the people who are stateless. That's still 10 million in the world. So in that sense, I say yes very clearly, but indeed without using my finger. Then, as promised, Mr President, the Kröger/Piri motion in part No. 13. I do not recommend it, because it says that, in the event of established statelessness, it automatically follows blameless. In the small debate I had with Mr Ceder, I think I made it very clear that it can play a role, but that it is not a one-on-one situation. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you. That concludes this term of office of the Secretary of State. We are also coming to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-4.u136	On the amendments tabled and motions for resolutions, yes, there will be two votes next Tuesday, I estimate. Having said that, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials. I would like to thank my fellow Members. I would like to thank our unspeakable support, which cannot be said often enough, and the others who have followed this debate here or elsewhere. I wish you all a good day. I shall close this part and suspend the sitting until 1.15 p.m., after which the sitting will continue with the two-minute debate on the rights of individuals and families.
