ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u1	Then we move forward in a smooth fashion with the debate on the Law on the determination procedure Statelessness (35687) and the amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap en de Passportwet and the repeal of reservations by the Convention on the status of stateless persons in connection with the determination of statelessness (35688-(R2151)). We have ten participants on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u2	The first speaker is Mr Cedar of the Christian Union. I'd like to give him the floor. I would point out that we have quite a few speakers with reasonable speaking time. If there is a great deal of interference and the maximum speaking time is used, then it is really 23.30 or 00.00 hours. I would therefore ask everyone to be brief. Mr Ceder is going to set a good example, because he took his iPad with him. I call Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing legislative proposals that are close to my heart, because the Christian Union believes that every human being has the right to develop his or her life. Every human being is intrinsically valuable and therefore entitled to a meaningful life. Mr. Chairman. Stateless people have been deprived of that right, often without them being able to do anything about it. Stateless people don't have a place they can call home. They don't have a government they can run to for protection, like you and me. They're unprotected, without peace and expatriation. They're alive, but they can't prove they're alive or alive. For example, it happened to Chun when he was 14, when he was brought to the Netherlands by a smuggler, was abused and forced to work in the kitchen of a restaurant. When he managed to escape and applied for asylum, he was not believed. He didn't have a single document to show where he came from. He wasn't allowed to stay in the Netherlands. The Netherlands referred him to China, but the Chinese embassy gave him no papers and did not know him. Eventually, Chun managed to get a stay and build a life. Thank God it worked out. Mr. Chairman. Chun is no exception. Thousands of stateless people live in our country. They come from the former Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Syria, Lebanon, Suriname, the United Arab Emirates, the Moluccas. Stateless people are not recognized by any country on earth. Since they are not recognised by any country, they cannot rely on the protection of public authorities. It's important that it does. In our view, the government is a shield, not a oppressor, of the vulnerable. That is why we are pleased that legislation is in place. The treaties signed by the Netherlands date from the 1950s and the early 1960s, but the Netherlands still has no procedure for establishing statelessness. The bill we are discussing today is hopefully going to change that. I'm very happy about that. Mr. Chairman. Yet there are still some hooks and eyes to it. I still have questions to see if this law really helps the people, the vulnerable ones we're doing it for. I also have questions about the argument used by the cabinet to explain certain choices. On the issue of normal residence, I tabled an amendment together with Mrs Podt to bring the terminology of "stable residence"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is an important point, because the treaties do not talk about stable residence, but about normal residence. The term'stable stay' adds a new requirement in relation to the Treaties. More importantly, it reduces the possibility of perspective for people born here and who can't help it that they're stateless. That is not the intention of this adoption procedure. It is precisely for this group that we want to bring about effective legislation. That is precisely what the treaties are asking for. I believe that this can be done at the time we call the'stay' rather than'stable stay', hence this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another point, namely the right of option.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u4	There is a question from Mr Brekelmans, perhaps about the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u5	One of the things that we have seen in the past around the children's pardon is that this kind of arrangement means that families who are not entitled to stay in the Netherlands will stay longer. This is also detrimental to the children themselves, because they are in uncertainty for a long time. Now this provision on stable residence is in it for that very reason, namely so that people do not shy away from supervision. There has been a whole report on this from the Van Zwol committee. That was 218 pages long, and it says: "Don't set up this kind of scheme that encourages that kind of behavior." However, Mr Ceder wants to introduce this kind of relaxation. How does he respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u6	Well, I have two points. Firstly, the Van Zwol report is not about stateless persons but about undocumented persons. You know very well that there is a big difference. Secondly, the treaties refer to "residence." But more importantly, with the term "stable stay," you create something that I don't think is meant to be. If the purpose of this legislation is to help stateless children who are born here and are not recognised by any country on earth, and then we are going to attribute the behaviour of parents to those children who had nothing to do with it, then I think we are making a trade-off that is completely contrary to that objective. I think the VVD might agree with that, too. That is also the reason why the Treaty refers to'residence'. With "stable stay" you create an additional requirement, whereby, according to the children's rights treaty, the VVD also knows how to allocate behavior from the parents to the children. I think that is contrary to what we are trying to achieve here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u7	Mr. Brekelmans, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u8	Mr Ceder is not responding to my question. I ask him the following question. At a time when foreigners, whether they are stateless or not, have reasons to stack procedures and to withdraw from supervision because this can lead to children getting Dutch citizenship after five or ten years and thus also giving parents the right to stay because of the right to family life, you give an incentive not to cooperate in procedures and procedures stacking. These are exactly all the things mentioned in the Van Zwol report for foreigners in the broad sense. I think that Mr Ceder should respond to this and simply acknowledge this adverse effect of his amendment, and that he cannot ignore it and wave it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u9	In response to what the VVD indicates, I would like to say the following. We have had many discussions about this in recent years. The report is about undocumented persons, and this is about stateless persons. With regard to undocumented persons, it was excluded from supervision only for supervision at the state level and not at the local level, as you well know. So you can be familiar with a municipality, a mayor and even at a school and report to a school every day, but if the IND or the Empire thinks you couldn't be found, then you've been out of control. We have had a lot of cases and parliamentary questions about this, and time and time again you see that the definition used by the VVD simply does not work in practice. In fact, this leads to poignant cases in cases that are already poignant. When it comes to evading supervision, we must, of course, prevent abuse; that is where you and I agree. But you are assuming a paper reality in which asylum legislation is currently flawless, and you and I know that it is not. With this demand for stable residence, you are also creating a reality in which, in relation to the objective of perspective for stateless people, we are taking exactly those steps that I do not think we should take. Nor do the treaties say that we should do so. So you can't say with dry eyes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u10	Mr. Brekelmans can't with dry eyes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u11	Oh, sorry, Chairman. Mr Brekelmans cannot say with dry eyes that the current definition of withdrawal from supervision actually leads to the cases which the VVD hopes would serve its purpose, namely to prevent abuse. In fact, in most cases it ensures that people who are willing to do good, people who are simply found in schools, in municipalities, in mayors are still marked if they are excluded from supervision and therefore should not stay. We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u12	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u13	Yes. The one about my amendment. With regard to option law, our predecessors Groothuizen and Voordewind have previously tabled an amendment to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. That amendment entitles stateless children born in the Kingdom to take up Dutch nationality after five years instead of ten years. We believe that this does indeed do more justice to the interests of the group of children in this situation. Then there's the assessment. The written procedure has already asked why an evaluation clause is missing. The government answers that it is not necessary because it is not experimental legislation or legislation of a temporary nature. But I don't quite follow that reasoning. Just when there is a law to regulate something indefinitely, especially on a subject like this, you would like to know whether you are achieving the intended goal, in terms of people who currently have no perspective and sometimes stay in our country for years without a view. You want to see if that law makes any arrangements for that particular group. We therefore consider it appropriate to include such an evaluation in the law. This is also one of the lessons that we can learn as a Chamber but above all also as a Christian Union from matters such as the supplementing affair but also other implementation issues. Let us see whether the theory, the legislation we have all devised in all wisdom, is in line with reality and whether it also helps the right people and not unintentionally helps the tribulation. We must therefore be able to act and switch quickly. That is why we are proposing an evaluation clause. After five years, it would be possible to see whether the adoption procedure actually works in practice as we all hope it does. The complex burden sharing could also be a point of attention, but perhaps also the point that Mr Brekelmans made: is there a large-scale abuse? If that is the case, it should also be demonstrated by the evaluation, and we should do something about it. But, in view of all this, we believe that the evaluation clause is more than sensible in such provisions. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the out-of-debt procedure. Unlike most other countries, which have a decision-making procedure in line with the Treaties, the finding that someone else is stateless in this legislative proposal does not automatically lead to the conclusion that someone should be allowed to stay. I wonder why the Netherlands makes a different choice to countries like France, the United Kingdom and Italy. When I look in the note on the report at what the reasons are, the cabinet summarises the fact that people can actually leave. The cabinet therefore mentions a number of 190. But I tried to figure that out: is it true that people who are stateless can also voluntarily leave and build perspective? I got a backup from that 190. This shows that if you look at where the people who leave our country go, there will eventually be zero of them registered again in the country of origin. Most go back to a Dublin claim country, where we all know that no perspective has yet been set. How can it be that, in the argument as communicated to the political groups, looking at its breakdown, zero people have finally been given a perspective or a solution? I would like to make that clear. That is why the cabinet says: there is no need for a right of residence. But if we see that people who are stateless are not entitled to stay anywhere else and are not helped, and so we don't really know if they are doing well, then I wonder if this law is fully doing what we are trying to do. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he shares my conclusion that there is some light between this breakdown of the figures compared to what has been indicated to the Chamber. If so, does that mean something for the argument why linking the right of residence, whether immediately or after a period, should not be considered? Mr President, I shall proceed quickly, because I see you looking very closely. I come to the credibility of the application for asylum. In the written round, the Cabinet indicated that the link between the credibility of the application for asylum and the assessment of the credibility of the statelessness should be as follows. If there is any doubt about someone's identity or nationality, it could play a role in assessing whether someone is stateless. That also seems perfectly logical in itself, but there are documented cases in which the IND has assumed a wrong identity, with consequences for those involved. I would not like that to happen in the adoption procedure. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is: how do we prevent it? In the texts of this proposal, statelessness is defined as: if, through the procedure laid down in the legislative proposal, a person is found to be stateless, then there is statelessness. However, Article 5 of the bill states that obvious statelessness can also be established in a non-judicial manner, subject to conditions to be laid down by or by general measure of administration. Until now, the municipality has also been able to establish statelessness in some cases. As a council member in Amsterdam, I made a proposal for this. I believe that the Secretary of State may even have voted in favour of it in a previous role, but I am not sure. However, municipalities may introduce "unknown" when registering nationality, because of their task of making changes to the BRP. They can therefore also establish statelessness. Does Article 5 provide for this possibility to continue? How does this non-legal possibility relate to the definition I just described? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the report states that the Cabinet intends to draw up the general measure of governance referred to in Article 5. However, we have not yet received it as a group, and that is important for us to be able to weigh it up, also because it would include a number of countries: if they were to give a statement, that would be sufficient to establish statelessness. When could we get this AMvB? This issue needs to be considered in conjunction. Mr. Chairman. These were my questions. I'd like to wait for the answer. That's how we're gonna weigh all this. I would like to add that I have cracked some critical notes, but most of the bill is really a step in the right direction. I see very good points and would like to congratulate the Secretary of State. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u14	Very well, thank you. I call Mrs Podt, from the D66 Group. I also ask her to be brief where this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "I belong to nowhere" was the answer to my question as to what impact statelessness has on the lives of people who are stateless when I spoke to some of them in preparation for this legal treatment. It is estimated that 12 million people worldwide are not nationals, also known as "stateless." It sounds so basic: a nationality. It ensures that there is at least one country in the world you belong to and where you have the right to stay. But 12 million people don't have that right. Without nationality, you have no country to return to. You can't get married, you can't buy a house, you can't get a diploma. In addition to these practical obstacles and the often kafkaesque situations that people face, there is no sense of belonging to anything that no country wants you. The right to nationality is not for nothing one of the fundamental human rights in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This underlines the importance of the laws we are discussing today. Mr. Chairman. In 2013, the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs wrote in a critical opinion entitled "No country to be seen" about the lack of protection in the Netherlands for stateless people. That was almost ten years ago. And now it is finally time: the House of Representatives is debating the law which proposes a determination procedure for statelessness. D66 is very happy that we can finally deal with this law. Mr. Chairman. D66 sees a lot of good in this law. For certain stateless persons, this law will be a significant improvement, because they can finally be recognized and get a stepping stone towards Dutchhood, with all the practical and symbolic things that go with it: if you want to get married, if you want to become a lawyer or buy a house. In short, it is a big step forward. But as far as D66 is concerned, we're not quite there yet. My group still has a number of questions to ask. On at least four points we see room for improvement. First of all, the burden of proof. This law takes a good step towards better sharing the burden of proof between the State and the stateless person. However, as always, much depends on the execution. I fear that there is a good chance that, in practice, many documents from stateless persons will be expected to happen again. Then proof becomes impossible, because the lack of documents is often the problem. You can never prove that there is no country on earth that wants you. Can the Secretary of State therefore promise that UNHCR's guidelines will be taken into account for this burden of proof and that there will be no need to demonstrate beyond doubt the existence of statelessness? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the condition of stable main residence. The explanatory statement refers to the term "stable stay': "Only if the child and the parents have not frustrated the departure and have not withdrawn from supervision, the stay can be considered stable'. With the failure to frustrate departure and the failure to withdraw from supervision, the government adds an additional requirement to the conditions that a person must fulfil in order to qualify for stateless status. There has been a great deal of criticism about this additional condition, including from the Human Rights College, the ACVZ and UNHCR. The Council of State is also critical and considers that this requirement goes beyond the four restrictive conditions laid down in Article 1 of the 1961 Convention on the limitation of Statelessness, which does not include the requirement for cooperation on departure. The treaties speak of an ordinary residence and not of a stable main residence. As far as D66 is concerned, too, the government is making an additional demand. Because UN conventions do not allow for such additional requirements, the Convention is not complied with if the law is formulated in this way, while the law is intended to give effect to these conventions. That is why I tabled an amendment with my colleague, Mr Ceder, to replace the term'stable main residence' with the term'main residence'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u16	That is the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u17	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. My third objection is in the new option right for stateless born children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u18	Sorry, I'm going to interrupt you again, because there's a question from Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u19	Suppose a stateless person is not entitled to stay in the Netherlands and children are born in the Netherlands. Those who know: if I stay out of sight of the government for a few years, then my child can become a Dutchman and because of the right to family life I also get the opportunity to stay in the Netherlands. What does Mrs Podt think that many of these families are going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u20	I find this difficult, because there is a great deal in this question. I do not suspect that a lot of people will do that, just because people just have to wait a very long time for that. That term is very long. I think that if we work together to ensure that we make very good procedures and that people can be treated quickly, this kind of distressing situation, which Mr Brekelmans is referring to, will take less action. But I think it is important to underline that we are doing this so that people get a chance to be recognised as stateless, or in this case to give those children that right. That extra demand is just not part of it. That is not the implementation of the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u21	Mrs Podt pretends that this treaty is a European directive which should be introduced literally because otherwise it would not be legal. There are 12 countries that have introduced a adoption procedure, while many dozens have committed themselves to this convention. It is implemented in a variety of ways by different countries. So that it wouldn't be legal is incorrect. But Mrs Podt, in answer to my question, says: I do not think it will happen. How does she explain that in the past we have had children's wards, with hundreds or even thousands of families with children staying in the Netherlands? And how does she explain that we have had a Van Zwol committee with a report of 218 pages to prevent such practices in the future? Mrs Podt says: I do not expect it to happen. Then how does Mrs Podt explain those children's wards in the past involving thousands of people? And what does she think of the Van Zwol Committee's recommendations, which run 180 degrees against what Mrs Podt proposes in her amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u22	I find that a bit difficult, because Mr Brekelmans is now bringing in a lot of things that have nothing to do with this piece. This isn't a children's pardon. This isn't about a child's pardon. Within the children's pardon play a lot more things. There will undoubtedly also be parents who take advantage of the situation. That's what we need to avoid. I think we have also seen in Van Zwol's pieces what to do about it, but that is not about this piece. This piece is about stateless persons. Let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u23	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u24	The amendment you are tabling is precisely about this. It is about whether or not people who are stateless and some of whom will also be in the asylum procedure should remain under the supervision of the government. And it's about whether or not they should frustrate their departure. That is one hundred percent about what the entire report of the Van Zwol Committee is about. That is one hundred percent about the target group that has previously been the subject of child pardon schemes. So perhaps we are talking about a specific sub-group of them, namely stateless persons, but the problem that Mrs Podt is creating with these amendments, or indeed the risk that she is increasing with them, is absolutely certain about that. I would ask her to respond seriously to this, especially with regard to the effects of this kind of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u25	I have every intention of responding seriously to everyone in this Chamber, but I'd like to stick to the subject we're talking about tonight. I would like to have another debate with Mr Brekelmans on the children's pardon or the sense and nonsense of these things, but that is not what this evening is about. Then I'll keep going. Mr. Chairman. My third objection is in the new option right for stateless born children. This bill makes it possible for stateless children born in the Netherlands without a residence permit to obtain Dutch nationality. However, this is subject to strict conditions, such as that a child must have had a continuous period of at least ten years of main residence in the Netherlands. This is a very restrictive application of the Convention, which, moreover, does not take sufficient account of the best interests of the child. This was also the case, among others, of the College of Human Rights and the UNHCR. D66 likes to join this criticism. That is why, again with Mr Ceder, I have tabled an amendment proposing that this maximum period be extended to five years in order to do more justice to the interests of children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u26	That is the amendment to item No. 10, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u27	Thank you. Finally, my fourth point is the procedure for indemnification. One of the people I spoke to indicated that he had been to the embassy so many times of the country the DT&V thought was his country of origin, that they didn't let him into the building: you're not from here, sir. As far as my group is concerned, the determination of statelessness does not automatically lead to a residence permit. I can follow the argument that proven statelessness is not the same as refugee status. However, D66 finds it very strange that statelessness is not a more serious criterion in the out-of-debt procedure. Especially in the case of statelessness, expulsion is often virtually impossible. For many stateless persons, the out-of-debt procedure means providing documents for years and years, trying and waiting without being able to build a life, without being able to work, without obtaining a license, without being able to give their child a future. When I asked one of the stateless persons who was present at our conversation, what else did the DT&V need from him after seven years of paperwork, was his answer: I don't know, my kids? Mr. Chairman. This can't be the intention. No one benefits from people who are endlessly in limbo, neither they nor the Netherlands. What does "sufficient cooperation" mean? How many times do you have to get kicked out of an embassy before you try everything? How many years do you have to wait for an answer from a consulate before you can come to the conclusion that they're never gonna respond? In the note following the report, the State Secretary states that return for stateless persons is possible. It seeks to support this with figures from the DT&V which state that between 2015 and 2019 there are about 190 cases of demonstrable departure of a stateless person. But further information from a Wob request to the DT&V about these numbers gives a different picture. Of the 185 people who have returned, as the Wob document shows, 60% have left independently or forced under Dublin. There are 65 people who have left independently with unknown destination, so it is unclear whether they have actually left for their country of origin or their former residence. They may still be in the Netherlands. Then there remains a rounded number of ten people from forced departure to others, of which it is not clear whether this is the country of origin, a country of former residence or a country with which there is no lasting link. While the Wob document states that it cannot be stated that one has returned to the country of origin because the country of origin is not known, the Secretary of State nevertheless writes in reply to parliamentary questions that it is possible to return to the country of origin, whereas it is not really possible to establish this. The figures for 2021 give the same picture. Here the forced departure is even zero. Meanwhile, it is unclear how statelessness will be weighed in the out-of-debt procedure. The Council of State also notes the lack of further clarification as to how the external debt criterion will be applied in the particular situation of a recognised stateless person. Does the Secretary of State understand this criticism and does he consider this method reasonable himself? Does he agree with D66 that people should not be knocking on embassies for years and years who do not recognise them as nationals and then remain in limbo? If you haven't had a response from an embassy for a year, isn't it reasonable for us to think that someone hasn't cooperated sufficiently? D66 would like to see more clarity about this, so that someone knows what to do or what to do. Is the Secretary of State prepared to formulate a realistic framework, for example through an AMvB, in order to clarify this? In Belgium, they seem to have decided in this case to reverse the debt procedure: let the state prove that a stateless person can return. What does the Secretary of State think of that idea? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few short points. The explanatory statement states that when a person is found to be Stateless, that person is given a so-called determination decision by the court instead of an ID document. In the pleading, that is further referred to as "passage'. This may be used by the stateless person to identify himself, although it is not an ID document within the meaning of the Code of Identification. According to the government, that's because this is not legally possible. I was told from various organizations that I was concerned about this method of working. Since the card is not an official ID document, someone could just be picked off the street because they cannot identify with an official document. I don't think that's the idea. Can the Secretary of State confirm that a stateless person can never be apprehended by the simple fact that he or she cannot show an ID document but can show the said ID card? Does he see the need to clarify this in the explanatory memorandum? If not, why not? Is it still necessary to make explicit conversation with the police, for example? Then the AMvB. In addition to this law, there is also the AMvB which regulates that obvious statelessness can also be established outside the adoption procedure. Because this AMvB is still in consultation, we cannot involve it in the legal process. What does this mean for the follow-up? How do we prevent further delay of the law? Then there's my last question. Municipalities will notice part of the elaboration of these laws when people come to them at the counter. Some municipalities have little expertise on this subject. It's also just complex matter. How are municipalities as well prepared as possible for the coming of this law and what will be expected of them, so that they can help or refer people as best they can? Mr President, I will conclude. D66 is pleased that we are finally dealing with this law. It's a complex subject. The documents I have read and the conversations I have had show that something that is so self-evident to all of us here is not at all self-evident for some people to have nationality with everything that goes with it. Let's do something about that today. Let's make sure these people can fit back in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u28	Thank you. Then Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u29	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has committed itself to combating statelessness. In 2011, the 50th anniversary of these conventions was celebrated, but at the same time it was found by UNHCR that, contrary to the provisions of the Convention, the Netherlands had still not provided for a procedure establishing that a person is stateless and therefore not regarded by any State under its law as a national. The Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs added in 2013 that an explanation, in good faith of the Treaty, would mean that a residence permit should be granted to those who are stateless. If no State feels responsible for defending the stateless person's interests, the State should do so where the stateless person resides. These legislative proposals that we are discussing today provide for a procedure for establishing this statelessness. This is finally fulfilling a treaty obligation, which has been in force for a long time. That is a real step forward. The great uncertainty in which many stateless persons are living is being eliminated. At the same time, I would like to ask myself whether I share this with the previous speakers, and what exactly is the added value of the way in which the cabinet is currently proposing it in the legislative proposal, namely the proposed determination of statelessness. The Treaty obligation is not interpreted as intended, but strictly according to the letter. This does not mean that you can derive a right of residence from statelessness. Then what does it mean? What was meant at the time as a first step towards equal trial remains a strictly procedural decision. In what exactly is the great advantage of applying for a judicial decision as a stateless person without a residence permit, I ask the Secretary of State. To what extent does the Secretary of State consider that this is really enough to secure and implement the Treaty to combat statelessness? However, in other European countries, such as France and Spain, it is regulated that stateless persons are granted legal residence after recognition. Is that not also ultimately the crux of the adoption procedure as the contracting parties intended at the time, namely to give people a real legal basis? What exactly is being arranged for stateless children? Currently, stateless children are required to have three years of legal residence in the Netherlands before being granted the Dutch citizenship by option. Without lawful residence, a stateless child must have 10 years of stable main residence in the Netherlands, of which five years are continuous immediately prior to the declaration. The D66 and Christian Union amendments considerably shorten that period. But my question is, even with that amendment: why does the Secretary of State not choose to align the conditions for both groups? The recognition of statelessness is therefore separate from a right of residence in the cabinet's proposal. The stateless person will receive an identification document, but also that document, that ID, does not comply with the Code of Identification. Why was it chosen by the Secretary of State? It is also unclear how the statelessness is actually working in the out-of-debt procedure at the moment. Because isn't your statelessness exactly the problem that prevents you from returning to your country of origin? That's exactly the whole problem. Think for example of the Rohingya who fled Myanmar. They are not recognised, let alone taken back. That's what you can see in the analysis of the numbers of the people who left. Several colleagues have referred to this. It is clear that they have not returned to a country of origin, because they have no place of origin that they take back. Mr. Chairman. The question to the Secretary of State, who then stays with me, is: what exactly is the purpose of the current legislative proposal? What is the purpose of the current adoption procedure? Is that really to provide a stateless person with the legal protection that is part of the rights we have? Or is it merely to comply with a treaty obligation? Shouldn't you also take on board the advice of the ACVZ and say that you should have an insight into a residence permit? Then how does the Secretary of State look at that? As far as I am concerned, procedurally, there are three specific things to improve. Firstly, the Secretary of State demands stable main residence for a period of ten years. The Council of State considers sustainable stay in the Netherlands with a social life more than enough to speak of habitual residence as stated in the Treaty. That is why we support the amendment tabled by D66 and the Christian Union. The adoption procedure currently provides for one possibility for an independent judge to review the facts. After that, only cassation is open, in which the facts are dealt with only marginally. The Council of State also considers that to be very harsh and recommends that an appeal should be brought before the Court of Justice in The Hague. A second body of fact must prevent complications with foreign law, predictable in this type of complex case, from being ignored in cassation, because it is only a violation of the law. Two factual bodies are therefore also a key rule. This gives interested parties and the Dutch government the opportunity to bring new facts into the proceedings. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'll respond to this. Finally, the identifying document. The document issued to stateless persons does not contain much more than that contained in the determination decision, supplemented by some biometric features. It does not therefore apply as an official ID as defined in the Act on the obligation of identification. Here, too, the Council of State considers that the proposed identification document does not comply with what has been agreed between the Contracting Parties. Why not choose another document, for example a W document? Mr. Chairman. These legislative proposals comply with a treaty obligation. There will finally be a decision-making procedure for stateless persons, but much more than a determination is not in place for a stateless person residing in the Netherlands with this bill. The position of stateless children remains precarious. If children last long enough in the Netherlands, they can qualify for Dutch citizenship. That is quite strange: for a long time an illegal existence in the margins of society and then suddenly the Dutch citizenship with the corresponding right of residence is granted. If the Netherlands really is serious about combating unwanted consequences of statelessness, another material interpretation of the Dutch responsibility for proven stateless persons would be desirable as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u30	Very good. Then we are going to listen to Mr Jasper van Dijk from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, the Chamber is taking an important step for stateless persons. Chun was already passing by, the man who doesn't exist, a man who literally fell between shore and ship. He was not recognized as someone from China, but also not as someone from the Netherlands. But after massive pressure from the Chamber and questions from yours truly, the predecessor of this Secretary of State said: okay, we'll still give him a residence permit. That's great. The participation of the Netherlands in the UN conventions is a good thing. Is it true that this is about 70,000 people? And why did this take so long? The report of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs dates back to 2013. So this discussion has been going on for ten years. There is also an investigation into statelessness among Roma. What's the status of that investigation? And why isn't that involved in this law? I come to the proposed procedure for establishing statelessness. If I understand correctly, there will be two procedures. There will be a non-legal method of finding, allowing stateless persons to register with the municipalities as such in the Basic Registration Persons. That's where an AMvB comes in. And the second procedure is, say, the legal procedure for establishing statelessness. We can go along with that, but we still have two questions. Firstly, what are the costs of this procedure? The amount of the fee "will be reasonable" is stated in the reports. But that could still be a lot of money for someone with little money. I would like to hear a further indication of the costs. My second question concerns the burden of proof on the stateless person. The Government states that both the applicant and the State must produce all relevant documents. This will be clear to the State, but what are the expectations of the stateless person in the trial? And how are these expectations communicated? We sometimes see this go wrong with asylum applications. Are stateless persons sufficiently capable of making the adoption procedure work? I'd like to hear a response. Then I come to the meaning of statelessness. In other words, what good is it for stateless persons to be registered as such in the BRP, i.e. that registration? There is a discussion on the link between statelessness and the right of residence. It is said: if you do that, it has a sucking effect. To what extent has this been established? Are there any data on that? I'd like to hear a response. Then there is the determination procedure: statelessness, the right of option and the out-of-debt procedure. The amendment of the state law offers children born here and who do not get nationality through their parents, the option to Dutch citizenship. However, a distinction is made between children who have the right of residence on the one hand and children who do not have the right of residence on the other. For the first group three years are used, and for the second group no less than ten years. And then there must be a stable main residence. The government indicates that this much longer period and the demand for a stable main residence are necessary to prevent abuse. Can the Secretary of State explain that again? What dates is that based on? There have already been enough questions asked by colleagues about the procedure for indemnification. I agree with that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to a special group, which I paid a great deal of attention to last year. I am referring to the so-called "pardoners." Those are the people who came under the general's pardon in 2007. They do not have a passport, which does not include full participation in society. Travel becomes difficult, getting married or getting a mortgage becomes a problem, and you can't vote in national elections. These are unnecessary obstacles that you need to remove. It's no use to society if so many people can only take part in it. That is why I tabled a motion with the CDA last year to help around 10,000 'pardoners'. So those are the people I was just talking about. They have often lived in the Netherlands for more than twenty years, and they are perfectly legal here, because they just have a residence permit. But a 2009 decision didn't give them a passport. I refer to my parliamentary questions on this from 2020. This is a related group, so I would very much appreciate it if the Secretary of State would reply. I'll leave that to him. I ask him to take a look at my parliamentary questions about this from 2020. I would like to ask why the policy on the possibility of proof was strengthened in 2009. The answer is: "There is a period between obtaining your residence permit and the request for naturalisation, and then it is reasonable to be able to show a passport or a birth certificate." But those people obviously didn't have that. That's why they couldn't get a passport. Can the Secretary of State explain again why this decision was taken in 2009? It got thousands of people in trouble. Hence my motion. My next question is: what is the situation with regard to the implementation of this motion? We hear from a lot of people that they still have problems getting a passport. As an example, a message from the NIS in February states: "The rejected persons were asked to become a Dutch citizen to hear that there are still doubts about their identity, or that they do not meet the current integration requirements." I'd like to hear a response. How many people have gotten passports now? Finally, there are those who do not fall under the general's pardon but want a passport. For example, see my questions about the Chen family from Lent near Nijmegen, which is now stuck on this point. What opportunities are there for helping them? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u32	Thank you and thank you for your conciseness. I'll suspend for a few minutes. Then we'll listen to Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u33	A relieved Secretary of State is back in the room. That is why we will continue with the speakers on the side of the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD Group. I would just like to say that Mrs Piri and Mr Eerdmans have already given up their speaking time, and I would like to thank those who are going to come for their conciseness. I call Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today there is an important law ahead: the law establishing statelessness and introducing an option right to Dutch citizenship for stateless children born in the Netherlands. The VVD welcomes the fact that there will be a procedure for officially establishing statelessness. Many stateless persons in the Netherlands now have unclear status. It gives them more clarity when it is formally established that they are stateless. In addition, it offers them some rights linked to this official record of statelessness. The international treaties on statelessness, to which the Netherlands has committed itself, are the reason for this step. On the functioning of these international treaties, I still have a question for the Secretary of State. How does he explain that so few countries have set up a procedure for the adoption of so many of these conventions, and many more have signed them? Does this mean that, from the point of view of international law, it is not yet necessary to introduce this adoption procedure? The determination of statelessness and the right of residence of a person are two separate matters. Someone may be stateless and may or may not be entitled to stay in the Netherlands under the Aliens Act. The fact that these are two separate cases is also clearly explained in the explanatory memorandum to this law. Then the second part: the right of option to Dutch citizenship for stateless children born in the Netherlands. The VVD is a lot more critical about this. Of course, we give every child born in the Netherlands the very best, but this scheme brings with it substantial risks. The scheme is at risk of stateless parents stacking procedures and prolonging residence, even if they are not entitled to stay in the Netherlands. When they do so, children are entitled to Dutch citizenship after ten years and parents are then allowed to stay in the Netherlands because of the rights of the child and the right to family life. As we have seen earlier that families with children on a large scale are staying illegally for a long time, the Van Zwol Committee has issued an opinion to prevent the accumulation of procedures and the longer stay of foreigners without a right of residence. This committee has produced a comprehensive report of 218 pages, including a recommendation to prevent new rules that encourage foreigners to stay illegally for a long time. That is exactly what this option scheme does. How does the Secretary of State view this option in relation to the recommendations of the Van Zwol Committee? What can he do to prevent it in practice from prolonging the illegal residence of parents with stateless children? In order to prevent such abuse, there are a number of conditions in the legislative proposal. One. There must be 10 years of stable main residence, of which at least five years shall be continuous immediately prior to the declaration. Two. It must be established that the statelessness cannot be lifted by the parents. Three. Parents should not have frustrated their return and should not have excluded themselves from the control of the asylum chain or the police. Now I see that amendments have been tabled, even yesterday, which ease the above-mentioned conditions. The VVD is very critical of this and will assess these and any other amendments that are still being tabled on the basis of two criteria. The first criterion is that it must not lead to any further extension of illegal residence. For example, if there is no longer a need for a stable main residence, a stateless person may withdraw from the asylum chain and the police for several years. This will further reduce the willingness to leave. I would therefore like a comprehensive analysis of the effects of these amendments on more illegal residence before I reach an opinion on this. How do these amendments relate to the recommendations of the Van Zwol committee, which says that this kind of relaxation reduces the willingness to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u35	I have a question for the VVD. According to the VVD, this would reduce the willingness to leave, but in situations like we have now, where there is no right of option and there is no naturalisation, people do not leave. That makes sense, because where does a stateless person go? No country recognizes that person. Even with a recognition of statelessness, there's no country you can go to. It is also confirmed by Forced Departure figures. Of the people who are not legally resident here and who do report to the asylum chain, zero were forced to leave for the country of origin in 2015. In 2016, it was zero. In 2017, it was zero. In 2018, it was zero. In 2019 it was zero. In total, it was zero. Where should these people, in the experience of the VVD, go, also in the light of the practice of recent years, at least until 2015? I don't have the figures for the years before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u36	In any case, these figures show that this is a problem. If these figures are correct, there has not been any unstated departures. Maybe there's been some unproven departure. Then the numbers are different. Look, of course, it's not like when someone's stateless, it automatically means that there's no safe place anywhere else or that it can't be established that someone's lived in another place before and had a safe place there. It is therefore not the case that someone cannot go to another European country, for example in the context of Dublin or another country outside the European Union, for a safe stay. You can do that if someone's out of state. That country must be prepared to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u37	The last thing I want to say is that it's the right thing to do. A country must be prepared to cooperate. I don't have any data on countries participating in it. Maybe the VVD does. But I don't have that data. You are referring to the fact that people can go to a European country, for example in the case of the Dublin claim. Mr Brekelmans also knows that if you go to a country because of a Dublin claim, this is not because you suddenly get a legitimate stay there, but because you will then be in an asylum system. So there is no permanent perspective. Does the VVD agree with me? Can Mr Brekelmans acknowledge that, in the measures he has just mentioned, no perspective can be demonstrated elsewhere than in the Netherlands by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u38	No, it is true that when someone goes into the asylum procedure as a stateless person in another European country, they may be entitled to stay there. Look, the status of being or not being stateless and the right to stay are two completely different things. The right to stay at asylum is about someone's flight story. Where did someone find themselves before? Was there war and violence, and personal persecution? Did anyone in the region have a safe place to be caught? Has the person previously reported to another country in Europe, where he could go through the asylum procedure? These are questions that are completely unrelated to the determination of statelessness. So, no, I do not agree with Mr Ceder's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u39	Rounding up. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u40	My question was whether the VVD agrees with me that the VVD doesn't have any examples... Theoretically, yes, because you say we're disconnecting it. You're not staying, so you can go somewhere else. But the figures I have, which I can forward to you in this way, show that in practice it is actually more aggressive and that countries, whether you are recognized as stateless or not, are not waiting to receive stateless persons and offer their perspective. My simple question is whether the VVD agrees with me that the VVD cannot give examples of someone who is recognized as stateless and who could find legitimate residence elsewhere and build perspective there as well. Does the VVD agree with me that there are no such examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u41	Those examples are there anyway, because any stateless person can leave voluntarily for any other country, if he is safe there. Mr Ceder mentions the figure zero, but I do not have those figures ready here. I can imagine that stateless persons have been forced to return to other countries as part of Dublin. I agree with Mr Ceder that return is uncomfortable and even more uncomfortable for a stateless person. If someone does not have the right to stay in the Netherlands, then you do not want them to have the incentive to withdraw from supervision, because in the end, after ten years or, as Mr Ceder wants, even after five years, Dutch citizenship occurs. Then we know one thing for sure: then there will be a very large zero in the figures mentioned by Mr Ceder. I am also afraid that the figures for voluntary departure, which Mr Ceder does not have, will continue to fall and that even more stateless persons will come to this end. I will get to that in a moment because they know: if I stay here for five years, my child will have Dutch citizenship ahead of him and a residence permit for myself. The problem that Mr Ceder is raising here is only being strengthened. That is why I think it is unwise to introduce the amendments proposed by Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u42	I wonder if the VVD agrees with me that the purpose of the treaty is to end statelessness. This law determines whether someone is stateless and is therefore only one step in complying with that treaty. My question is: what is the next step? Now a group can be recognized as stateless, so what?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u43	Then it is indeed established that the person is stateless. It follows certain rights or makes certain things easier if you want to participate in Dutch society. Examples of this were also mentioned, such as starting a business or getting an ID document. If it is established that you are stateless, it is easier to claim the Dutch citizenship if you want to. My criticism is not about the fact that we have this adoption procedure. Moreover, there is also the more personal argument, namely that it is pleasant for people to be confirmed that they are in that situation. It takes away uncertainty. That's what I'm here for. Only, because of this option scheme, children born here get the right to Dutch citizenship and give your parents who are not allowed to stay in the Netherlands a reason to be here with their family for years, thus avoiding supervision. That's what my criticism is about. There are amendments that even add to that problem. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u44	I am pleased that the VVD recognises that the adoption procedure proposed in the law is a step, a step, but in order to end statelessness, people must eventually be given a nationality. The end of statelessness is, in fact, having a nationality. Does the VVD therefore agree with me that for those whose statelessness is recognized, obtaining nationality is really the solution to end statelessness?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u45	Whether someone is entitled to stay in the Netherlands or in the Netherlands depends on the personal situation. So it is not my aim to bring every stateless person who is either outside the Netherlands or in the Netherlands here to give them a nationality here. For me, the purpose of this law is that it becomes clear that there is statelessness among people who are now "unfamiliar" in the systems, people whose position we do not really know. The second objective is to determine what rights people have additional rights to. That may be a residence permit, that may be Dutch, but that is different for every individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u46	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u47	But at the end of the day it is the intention of the Treaty to do so, and that is why this law lays down that we end people's statelessness. Ending statelessness means giving people a nationality, otherwise you will remain stateless. A nationality can be obtained either in the Netherlands or in another location, but that must be the purpose of the Convention. Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u48	We disagree on the interpretation of this law. As far as I am concerned, it is not the aim that everyone who is diagnosed with statelessness in the Netherlands should automatically become Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u49	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u50	On the amendments. The second criterion is the effect that this amendment will have on the number of stateless persons to come to the Netherlands. Our asylum system is beeping and cracking. Ter Apel is overflowing, dozens of emergency locations have already been opened and we have a huge task with Ukrainian refugees. If only a few percent of stateless persons in the EU and the ring around Europe were to come to the Netherlands, then many thousands of people could stay in the shelter for many years until a child becomes Dutch. I therefore ask the Secretary of State for an up-to-date comparison between the Netherlands and other EU Member States. Do they also have such an option scheme? Do they assume ten years' stay or less? And should there be a stable main residence or should stateless persons be excluded from supervision for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u51	I have another question on the occasion of the previous interruption, because I do not think the answer has been given. The question was: what is the purpose of the treaty? The underlying question was: if the Netherlands is committed to the treaty, why? The answer was: with regard to this law. What is the answer to the question of what is the purpose of the treaty? And why has the Netherlands even signed below?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u52	The aim of one of the two treaties, which, incidentally, only twelve countries have introduced in this way, is to prevent as much statelessness as possible. That does not mean that GroenLinks hinted that I think that every stateless person in the Netherlands automatically has the right to stay or to become a Dutch citizen. That depends on the personal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u53	I understand that very well. I'd heard that distinction, too. The next observation will then remain. If you commit yourself internationally to putting statelessness out of the world, then a country in the world must say: you are part of my state. That could be the Netherlands, that could be another state, I understand that very well, but the purpose of the treaty is not achieved in any other way. So I wonder where the concern at the VVD comes from that this would be entrapment of people to stay in the Netherlands, especially since there is no sucking effect in those twelve other countries, which have done it exactly like this. Because that's what we've seen. So you have twelve countries other than the Netherlands as an example to look at in order to establish that it does not have any suction effect at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u54	No, to explain it even more clearly: from the first part of this law, namely to determine whether someone is stateless, I do not think that will have an astounding effect. I don't think people are gonna come here massively to make sure they're stateless. I am talking about the option system, because this is also subject to a residence permit, namely that children can become Dutch. And because children are Dutch, the right for parents to stay with the child arises. My question to the Secretary of State is whether other European countries have set this up in the same way. If it is the case that all European countries do so, and all in a very flexible way, then the risk of a suction effect is less. But I think Mrs Koekkoek agrees with me that there will be a lot of countries in the European Union that have not introduced it. And that means that for a stateless person who has children or who may have children in the future, it is better to go to the Netherlands than to Germany or Belgium. I'll take that as a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u55	We are in complete agreement on the latter, namely that we need to draw up equal policies in the EU. On the route there I will return in my own contribution. We're different in that. I can give you the answer already, namely that a number of countries have simply linked residence to that statelessness. Why? Because that's the only way to get it out of the world. But you don't have to. There are also other roads to Rome. Only, what we're trying to get to is this. The aim of the Treaty is to prevent statelessness, especially in the case of children, because they should not end in a hopeless situation. So it's still hard for me to understand, and that's where the question comes from: why the fear of the children?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u56	In the past, we have seen that as... Eventually, it doesn't just lead to Dutch citizenship for children. It also leads to a right of residence for the family, for the parents. So you have as parents in a family then the choice... Look, it's about people who don't normally have the right to stay. If you already have the right to asylum and receive a permanent permit, then it doesn't matter very much. But if you are not entitled to asylum, are stateless and know that if you go to the Netherlands, your child will eventually become Dutch and then the parents will also be entitled to a residence permit, then that is an incentive for people to do so. That is why there are a number of conditions in this law to make this possible. It must be ten years, people must remain under supervision, and it must not be the case that parents consciously do it in this way to make children stateless. I think that's good terms. That is why I mentioned them explicitly. This is a balance sheet. On the one hand, we give children the right to become Dutch, but there are sufficiently strict conditions to limit that risk. That is perhaps also the answer the Secretary of State will give. I can only see now that there are therefore parties who are tabling amendments which will ease those conditions further. My fear is that that balance will then go crazy. That is why I asked these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u57	Fine. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u58	I would also like to know from the Secretary of State whether these amendments are expected to increase the number of people who will make use of this option scheme. In this case, the expected implementation costs will also increase. Finally, the award of Dutch citizenship involves a public order test. In this case, if a person has committed a crime that is a threat to national security or involves a five-year prison sentence, this may be a reason not to grant Dutch citizenship. Those five years is a pretty high limit. Indeed, there are already very serious crimes in which there is a one-year prison sentence. Is it possible to reduce this limit from five years to, for example, one year? How does the Secretary of State view this? That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u59	Thank you. Then Mr Markuszower of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A Dutch passport is worth gold, so half of Africa and the entire Middle East want that passport. It is known that the lawns around Ter Apel are full of broken IDs from Turks and Moroccans, who say they are pathetic refugees from Afghanistan. The previous VVD Secretary of State, Broekers-Knol, was fooled by these fake fugitives. This VVD-bobo, Secretary of State Van der Burg, is fooling the Netherlands, because he wants to fill the Netherlands with lucky seekers from Africa and the Middle East. The more Muslims in the Netherlands, the better, he says. Once here in the Netherlands, this VVD Secretary of State can coddle them. He can give them a home, a benefit, free care, free education, free legal aid, and because of this law we are discussing today also easier Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u61	There is a question from Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u62	I think Mr Markuszower is in the middle of a wrong debate. This is about lawlessness. You're talking about Ter Apel, you're talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u63	Mr Markuszower talks about Ter Apel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u64	Mr Markuszower talks about Ter Apel. He's talking about shelter. He's talking about refugees. But we're talking about stateless people today. Do you agree with me that there is a legal, but also factual, difference? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u65	I certainly agree with that. That is a question that I can only answer with condolences. I was making a bridge. While you... While Mr Cedar of the Christian Union was walking to the interrupting microphone, I also said: by this law we are discussing today, that was the bridge, this Secretary of State also gives Dutch nationality more easily. If Mr. Ceder waits, I'll be right back to discussing the law. If Mr Ceder has another question after that, perhaps I can answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u66	I'm curious. But don't you agree with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u67	Does Mr Markuszower not agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u68	Sorry, Chairman. I say "you" as a courtesy, but it's "Mr. Markuszower." Does Mr Markuszower agree with me that there seems to be a mix-up of the debate and that it can be confused for the Chamber, but also for the viewers? Do you at least agree with me that there is such a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u69	I certainly agree that there is a mix-up. That's exactly what I'm trying to do. Because the enticing of illegal immigrants and making it easier for illegal immigrants to obtain Dutch nationality, making it easier for status holders to have the right of residence and nationality, or making it easier for them to have the title stateless, which can lead to a right of residence, which can lead to nationality, is all mixed up. That's why I started how I started. That's why the bridge is like the bridge. That is why, if Mr Ceder will allow me, I will continue to do so. The Netherlands, at the expense of its own citizens, is generous to foreigners. The Netherlands says to anyone who can say the word "asylum" or its equivalent: come and stay. And so they do. In large numbers they come. In large numbers they stay: year in, year out. In the last 12 years 2.5 million migrants have been admitted, including almost 1 million non-Western immigrants. Turks, Moroccans and Syrians may continue to come from this cabinet. In addition, hardly anyone returns to the country of origin. Only one out of three illegal immigrants who have been told to leave the Netherlands will actually leave the Netherlands. So almost 70% of all illegals just don't leave. There are tens of thousands of illegal immigrants in the Netherlands who do not have to leave this cabinet, but instead get bed, bath and bread. The cost of this open door policy is enormous: at least EUR 20 billion per year. Our welfare state is imploded by this. The Netherlands wants to take care of everyone, but no one will be able to take care of them. The common Dutchman can now talk about it. For them there are no houses available, but for Muhammad and Kauthar. The AOWs can talk about it, too. For them there is no money left to improve their purchasing power. That money also went to Mohammed and Kauthar. Caretakers can talk about it. No free care for them, because Muhammad and Kauthar already get it. Today, the cabinet comes up with two legislative proposals that make it even more attractive for foreigners to come to the Netherlands and stay here. There will be a procedure that will make it easier for undocumented foreigners, illegal immigrants and status holders to determine their statelessness by the courts. Once those status holders have their statelessness and have it fixed, it's checkout. Within three years they will receive the coveted Dutch passport; that is the bridge. Those illegals are also treated today by the left-wing church and their ventriloquist Van der Burg, the Secretary of State. If illegal immigrants have a child here in the Netherlands, this law will give them the right to Dutch nationality within ten years. After that, these illegal parents have derived right of residence. So what we are dealing with today is not a technical law on statelessness at all. Through the political back door there is a new general pardon. The PVV will therefore vote against these two legislative proposals and against all the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u70	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u71	I thought I'd wait for the whole argument. I hear Mr Markuszower, but does he recognize that there is statelessness? For example, the Rohingya from Myanmar are not recognized by the government in Myanmar. That's a group that's out of state. Does he recognize that this exists as a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u72	"As a problem" is a qualification. Of course I recognize the fact that there are people on this globe who say they're stateless. Some of them might be, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u73	Mr Markuszower acknowledges that there are people who are stateless. Does he therefore believe that this treaty exists to ensure that we end the statelessness for the people who are stateless?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u74	I do not think that the Netherlands can solve all the problems of all the people in the world. Before the Ukraine crisis, I think there were 82 million recognised refugees. So that's going to be around 90 million by now. The Netherlands cannot solve all these problems. The Rohingya just mentioned Mrs Kröger of the Christian Union herself. They come from a whole...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u75	I'm from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u76	Sorry! What group did I say? Oh, the Christian Union. Same, it's all the same in terms of positions eventually, in this debate. So ChristianUnion... sorry, GroenLinks, sorry. That is also from a region very far away from ours. We cannot and should not resolve the Rohingya problem here. Their region must solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u77	That wasn't my question. My question was whether Mr Markuszower acknowledges that it is in any case good that the Netherlands has signed that treaty, which is a consequence of this law and which ensures that the problem of statelessness is ended? That was my question. Oh, there's an app coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u78	Well, there's a lot of apps coming in. No, I do not at all recognise that this is a good development and I do not think that the Netherlands should have taken this step. If a treaty were to stand in our way, I wonder if that is the case, because we have worked well for eight years without the implementation of this law, its treaties and not a holy voice. So we can cancel it and then we could join again. So I don't see any problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u79	Fine, thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Koekkoek of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this bill, purpose and means have grown apart. The proposal is unnecessarily complex and seems to have been used to prevent people from settling in the Netherlands by establishing statelessness. Instead of providing for stateless people with their rights, the state treats them with distrust. As a result, people will not or will not be entitled to their rights. It hinders access to justice. The procedure for establishing statelessness is essential to improve and guarantee the rights of stateless people. But this can only be done if the proposal is in line with constitutional frameworks and international treaties. The current proposal is not that. In essence, the proposal is contrary to international conventions. But perhaps even more important: the restrictive approach of the proposal sometimes makes stateless people even more vulnerable and is therefore contrary to the intention of procedures to establish statelessness. It is to improve the position of this group of people. The aim of the UN Conventions of 1954 and 1961 is to offer stateless people, who are vulnerable, a place on this world. For having a place in this world means that you can claim your rights and that is essential for every human being. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a bill that deals with protecting the most vulnerable, but making the administrative walls so high that we achieve the opposite. This may make the situation for stateless people more dangerous, only because we in the Netherlands refuse to give them a place in the world. If we make a law to honour international treaties, but completely ignore the purpose of those treaties, I wonder what we are doing. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to talk about the content of this law. The cabinet states that it does not wish to grant a lawful residence because it may be a triggering effect. It has already been said that 13 countries preceded us. Statelessness is often linked to the right of residence, and there is no attraction there. Moreover, most stateless people already have legitimate residence in the Netherlands. But for those who are not legally resident, this proposal creates a hopeless situation. They may not work, they may not receive training, they cannot take out health insurance, but they cannot return to the country of origin or to the country of departure. In fact, repeated attempts to expel the Netherlands without success could even lead to a violation of Article 3 of the Declaration of Human Rights. In addition, fear of expulsion can also stop us from claiming the same status of statelessness. The intention of the cabinet to declare people who are staying illegally in the Netherlands undesirable reinforces this sentiment. Hence the following questions. Can the Secretary of State reflect on the relationship between this bill and the junk declaration contained in the coalition agreement? What guarantees will be created to ensure that stateless persons without residence status will not be arrested or detained on the basis of illegal residence? The same problem applies to the failure to issue a full identity card. In this way, stateless people without legitimate residence will disappear into limbo again, as they will be unable or unable to obtain travel documents without an identity document and therefore cannot legally leave the country of an earlier stay or legally enter another country. They will therefore have to stay in the Netherlands in illegality and will therefore also be at risk of arrest, detention and forced expulsion. That is a hopeless position, which is precisely trying to counter this international treaty. Does the Secretary of State therefore see the possibility of agreeing on this at European level, so that the rights of the stateless are guaranteed in the same way in the EU? Then there is the legal procedure. The responsibility for establishing statelessness lies with the individual in all respects, but we know from the stateless that they are vulnerable and that proof of their status is difficult to find, as has already been said by a number of colleagues. The right papers are often not or hardly available to the individual. The Handbook on Protection of Stateless Persons of the UNHCR therefore states that the burden of proof must be a shared responsibility of the individual and the state. It is a question of a factual legal determination. The standard of proof should therefore be adapted to this reality. Is the Secretary of State therefore prepared to use the standard of proof for the determination of statelessness that a person is stateless when it has been reasonably established that this person is not regarded by any State as a national? Is the Secretary of State prepared to reduce the administrative burden of claiming the Dutch citizenship after an individual has been declared stateless for the individual? Can the Secretary of State provide additional information on how to deal with the evidence of statelessness in the asylum procedure? It has also been chosen not to allow appeal in the legal procedure. That's vulnerable. At the time when there is no appeal, it does not look again at the facts that are important in the case of establishing statelessness, because it is a factual finding. Can the Secretary of State indicate why this choice has been made and, above all, how this vulnerability will be addressed in the current legislative proposal? In short, how do we guarantee that we have a careful process of establishing statelessness, with sufficient possibilities for adjustment? Mr President, I shall end by going back to what is at stake. The bill has been put in place to guarantee the rights of vulnerable people. The worse it is that we distinguish between adults and children. The current legislative proposal has chosen to create separate grounds for legally and unlawfully staying children, with children without a residence permit having to wait longer to do an option on Dutch citizenship. This discriminates against children, among other things, on the basis of their parents' status. This goes against the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Is the Secretary of State not prepared to make this distinction in the bill any longer? Mr President, you will hear: I am critical of this law because it fails to achieve its objective. At the same time, I believe that this law will be approved. I am therefore considering tabling an amendment which also makes people who are actually stateless entitled to the determination of statelessness. I agree with the question previously asked to the Secretary of State to carry out an evaluation of this law. This evaluation should not be based solely on the letter of the text, but on the purpose of the Convention, namely that everyone who has a place in this world has a place on paper. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u81	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term is Mrs Kuik from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u82	You're alive, but you can't prove you exist. How unreal should it be to belong to no country and not have the corresponding rights? The lack of legal protection and belonging to nothing affects a life. "We don't exist. We're not part of anything." That's one of the cries I heard from someone who's stateless. In addition to the fact that not having a nationality is an identity issue that affects the possibilities a person has in his life, it also has symbolic value that affects people. During the Second World War Jews in Germany were collectively made stateless by the Nazis, so was Hannah Arendt. She fled to America, where she received political asylum, but not directly American citizenship. She wrote about it: "The right to have rights, or the right of every individual to belong to humanity, should be guaranteed by humanity itself." It's about the right to be protected by law. The question of statelessness has long been gnawing at the international legal order. Europe has known many stateless persons before and after the Second World War. Following the experience of the Second World War, treaties for the elimination of statelessness have been established. Statelessness has many causes, from discrimination in a country to the break-up of a country. Frankly, it is painful to see that the Netherlands has taken so long before there is a simple procedure for establishing statelessness. It is good that the reservations are now being lifted by these legislative proposals, but it has taken a very long time. Mr. Chairman. Two legislative proposals are dealt with in conjunction. The legislative proposal for the adoption procedure creates a procedure whereby a person who claims to be stateless can prove this to the civil court. Two. With the proposal of state law, the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap adds an option right for stateless children born in the Netherlands without legal residence. This will enable these children to acquire Dutch citizenship. Previously, my colleague Van Dijk van de SP referred to a proposal we made together for the RANOV group. My predecessor Madeleine van Toorenburg has also worked for this. That was a group of people who were allowed to stay in the Netherlands, but could not become Dutch because they had no passport or birth certificate. That's gonna do something. 'Cause you might be able to work, but you better come up with a mortgage. Traveling is therefore problematic. For being fully involved in society, it does matter whether you really are Dutch. I therefore agree with the questions put by Mr Van Dijk on this point. Mr. Chairman. I have a series of questions that I would like to see more clearly before we can make a proper assessment of a number of points in the law. For example, in order to understand the legislation and choices, I also asked in the written input to make this practical through a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u83	Mrs Kuik made a comparison with the RANOV scheme, but this concerned people who had the right to stay here and then could not become a Dutch citizen. The second part of this law is specifically about people and children who are not entitled to stay. I do not know what questions Mrs Kuik is going to ask about this, but does she at least recognise that these are two very different principles, because it is crucial whether or not someone has the right to stay in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u84	Yes, of course they are two different groups, but it is about people who are stateless. That's what's coming together right now. That is why I also ask the question about people who could not become Dutch, where we took a very long time to make sure that they could participate. Now it's about being able to determine if someone's out of state. Of course, it matters whether you are staying here legally or not. And I'll ask some questions about that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to see some things clarified. In how many cases where statelessness is established, does this result in a procedure for a residence permit? How many people then go into the procedure to obtain a residence permit and how many people end up getting it? So what percentage are we talking about? What is the relationship between the group that receives the residence permit after three years and the group that does not get it? And when aren't you gonna get that residence permit? The basis is that we must monitor the human line and limit unnecessary procedures. On the other hand, I would like to ask how we can prevent abuse of this scheme. In the reply, the Secretary of State states that the linking of the right of residence may have an effect which may be inconvenient. Can he go into this further? In what way, then, does it have an astounding effect and what examples does it have? And then, Mr President, about the words "stable stay" or "simple stay." The Council of State advises to use the last words. Do I understand that in the first phrase, the condition can be that people have remained in the eyes of the government, and that they are not therefore entitled to legal residence after x-number of years? And you can't do that with the second phrase? Can this condition be applied to "stable stays" and not to "normal stays"? In itself, the CDA can follow that it is important that you stay in sight. Mr. Chairman. An amendment has been tabled to limit the right of option from ten to five years of continuous residence in the Netherlands for stateless children born in the Netherlands without a residence permit who cannot reasonably obtain any other nationality. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many families are involved in that situation? Do we have a picture of that? Here too, the argument of abuse is used. To what extent is this now? How can abuse be prevented without huge thresholds being set for people who cannot reasonably move in a different direction because children are out of state? You want to keep them in the dark for longer than necessary. A prerequisite for integration is stability. Finally, a question about the option not to opt for the possibility of appeal. I understand that if there are new facts and circumstances, the case can still be brought before the court. But wouldn't the possibility of appeal fit better with the principle of efficiency, in the sense that it is used instead of people starting a new procedure again? I'd like an answer to that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u85	So far. Oh, there's another question from Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u86	My question relates to the right of residence and its linking. The theory is, if you're out of state, you can go back. However, practice shows that this is not so easy to say. Does the CDA agree that if the procedures were to lead to people being recognized as stateless but then unable to get a perspective anywhere in the world, in the sense that they can go but have no right to stay there, this would be an undesirable situation and that we should really want people to have perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u87	Of course we want people to have perspective. I am not asking for nothing about which part of the people are involved who will then have a procedure and will actually have the right to stay here and how we can avoid unnecessary procedures if we know that the majority can stay here. I would also like to hear the examples of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u88	That's a good question. We have also had some data showing that a number of stateless persons do leave the Netherlands but do not necessarily build a happy future. For example, they go to a Dublin claim country, where they go into a procedure. But since they are not refugees but are stateless, what is to be the outcome of that is to be expected. Does the CDA agree with me that it is important that when people go to a Dublin claim country, they get a permanent perspective? And that should also be the result of this law, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u89	I think it is very important to agree on this at European level. I didn't ask that question, but I'm adding it now. You want a little cooperation on that in Europe. If someone is sent back to a Dublin claim country, there must be opportunities there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u90	At 9:15 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u91	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals with an extremely long history. They're even from the last century, 1954 and 1961. Both are about statelessness. You'll only be stateless. There are 10 million people in the world, 400,000 in Europe. In the Netherlands there are 6,000 registered stateless persons, but there are also 31,000 people whose nationality is unknown in the Netherlands. It is estimated that 8,000 of those 31,000 are also stateless. I happened to experience one time in my personal life that I had to make a marriage that couldn't go on at the last minute, because the man couldn't prove he existed and what nationality he had. That's extremely shocking. I wouldn't trade. I think that goes for everyone here. That in advance, Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, we are introducing these two laws now, just to comply with treaties to which we have committed ourselves. I say this specifically, and I certainly refer to the Treaty on the right of option. That is what Mr Brekelmans referred to, not to mention the contribution of the PVV, which went a little further. Mr Brekelmans said he had difficulty with the second law, but we signed a treaty. I'm in the category of "a deal is a deal," whether you make it with the Chamber, in the coalition or at international level. You have to keep a deal, even if you've signed a treaty. That is why we are now finally allowed to submit the two laws to you. Having said that, Mr President, I shall first turn to a question from Mr Ceder. It's about statelessness in its generality, including numbers. The question was: is it true that people who are stateless can leave voluntarily? Yeah, you can. Turns out people leave voluntarily. Mr Ceder and others are right: that does not automatically mean that they are going to the country of origin, because they may indeed go to a Dublin claim country or to a third country. Nor does it automatically mean that we are going to live a happy life there. Those words were just used literally by Mr Ceder on the interrupting microphone. But in itself that is no reason to say that we should therefore have a residence permit here. So one can leave. That was the specific question put by Mr Ceder and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u93	Let me ask you a factual question. Is it true that people can leave, but that the government has not yet been able to see that people can also leave for the country of origin? Is it true that we have not been able to identify any of these cases since 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u94	Well, it's true that in almost all cases that can't be traced, especially when people leave with unknown destination, as it's called. Then it's not clear where they're going. That could be the country of origin, that could be a Dublin country, that could be any other country in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u95	That is true, but to put it bluntly: the government has zero verified cases of stateless persons who have left their country of origin, apart from the fact that they may be able to do so. The fact is that we have zero verified cases of stateless people who have actually left for the country of origin. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u96	If I confirm the number "zero" here, it must also be zero, because I'm supposed to be telling the truth to the Chamber. I'm afraid to answer that in the affirmative, but I can absolutely confirm that there are very few of them, Mr. Ceder. And that's what you want to hear. I'm sorry, Mr. Ceder actually wants to hear that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u97	I find that difficult too, because the focus is now on whether we are responsible for ensuring that people in another country are happy. I can imagine the Secretary of State wouldn't agree to that. At the same time, I do have a problem with it, because we are talking about a group that I believe has a slightly higher barrier to return than for many other groups. Often it's not their fault. When we talk about returning to Dublin, we are actually just pinging: you push people back to Germany, Spain or another country, but after that they still have nowhere else to go. Shouldn't we feel a certain responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u98	Well, we didn't make those Dublin deals for nothing. That's the deal. The moment you enter a country that is covered by the agreements, that is the country where you may enter the procedures. Quite apart from the fact that I think this debate might be a little less appropriate for that, I would not like to interfere with that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u99	No, I am not so much concerned with interfering with the Dublin agreements. I am concerned that we are dealing with a group that we already know is not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u100	There are two things, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about establishing statelessness and the right to option, but I will do it separately, if you will allow it. The determination of statelessness then does not say anything about the right to stay anywhere. Once it has been established in the procedure that someone is out of state, the stateless person has the same starting position as people who are here illegally or apply for asylum. If at some point it can be established that they are lawful here, then they are legally resident stateless persons. If it is established that they should not be here, they should return to the country where they come from. This is at least the starting point of the legislation and regulations, which are not affected by these two laws. At least, not by the first. The second, on the right of option, which I will come up with later, can lead to people acquiring Dutch citizenship through the right of option.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u101	Perhaps the Secretary of State will come up, but there was, of course, a reason why we asked this. We do not necessarily want everyone to automatically obtain a residence permit, but we want to clarify the procedure for this group's innocence, which remains very unclear. That's why I asked about one of those AMvBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u102	I will of course come back to 'out of blame', because several people have asked for it. It's very hard to prove that you're not part of anything. It's a lot easier to prove you're part of something. This has just been said by several speakers. So it is clear that a stateless person is having a harder time proving that she or he is stateless. This also means that the burden of proof is different from that of non-states. There is therefore also a mix of responsibility between the stateless person and the government.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u103	The law we are discussing today is actually about how the Netherlands gives hands and feet to the commitment, to the treaty, to end statelessness. We are doing this by at least making sure that people can determine that they are stateless. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Does he agree with me that this is only a step in complying with the Treaty? Does he agree that there should be a prospect of actually ending statelessness, for example through a residence permit or naturalisation anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u104	A residence permit doesn't affect your statelessness, so it doesn't help if I go along with Mrs. Kröger. The law is an implementation of the treaty, because it ensures that it is established that you are stateless. If you are stateless, you can then take steps to achieve a certain nationality both in the Netherlands and in other countries. If, for example, in another country, you have been found to be stateless, then you are clearly stateless. This can again help in the next procedure to arrive at Dutch citizenship. The other way around is as well: if we see it here, it can help in other countries. It is not the case that determining statelessness in a one-on-one situation leads to Dutch nationality, not even to a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u105	My question was whether the Secretary of State's intention is as follows. With this law, we determine whether someone is stateless. However, in order to comply with the Convention, with which we intend to end statelessness, the process for people to obtain nationality must indeed be part of the elaboration of that Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u106	At the time when it is established that someone is stateless, it can then help that person to obtain a nationality. Thus, in that sense, the law is a step for stateless persons to eventually achieve a nationality. Again, we deal with two laws here, but this is about the first law. The second law refers to an explicit step towards a nationality. The second law gives people who are stateless and illegally residing in the country an option right. We are going to talk about the conditions, because I have just heard that GroenLinks does not agree with the criteria set by the cabinet. But at least that law contributes to the fact that a stateless child can, under certain conditions, acquire nationality. Some speakers have pointed out in this debate that at the time when a child is given nationality, it may be that the parents also get nationality. In that sense, therefore, both laws help to do what Mrs Kröger wants, regardless of the fact that Mrs Kröger may not agree with the conditions under which that can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u107	It is not about what Mrs Kröger wants, but about the intention of the treaty we signed: the end of statelessness. The law now before us doesn't. It only makes for recognition, for a finding that you're stateless. The Secretary of State now states: at least it is a step towards obtaining a nationality. But I do hope that it is the intention that we should work towards ensuring that the people who are diagnosed with statelessness are given nationality somewhere. Otherwise, of course, we still do not comply with that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u108	The Treaty provides that the signatories have undertaken this obligation as a collective commitment. That is not the same thing as one party being jointly and severally liable, so I would almost say it by a legal term, to say: with the signature I am now jointly and severally liable, so they must now have nationality with me. It's possible. This option also exists for stateless persons. Again, we are talking about one law and not the other law. That option exists, but we are going to take other steps first. That's not gonna be dealt with by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u109	My concern is that people are being pumped around a little bit. They're getting a status. It is then said 'you can go to another country' but we know that someone is not fleeing under the asylum system, but is stateless and does not get a stay. Then no perspective is actually offered. That is the concern of the Christian Union, especially when it comes to very vulnerable people. Think of seniors, for example. I know personally, but perhaps you too, enough cases of people who have been out of state for a long time, maybe even so long that they would be entitled to a pension if they were retired. They are people over 65, people aged 70, 72, 73, for whom the expectation that they could build perspective elsewhere is unrealistic, at least in the eyes of the Christian Union. My specific question to the Secretary of State: does he see, without speaking in generic measures, that I understand his concern, perhaps in the case of the IND through a work instruction or a hardness clause, to consider statelessness in distressing cases when it comes to applying for lawful residence? I'm not talking about the innocence procedure. I have just mentioned an example where it is not fair to send someone to another country to build a new life.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u110	We need to make a distinction between combating statelessness and a lawful residence. The law deals with the implementation of the treaty to put an end to statelessness. But you can be stateless and legally stay in the Netherlands. In fact, there is a large group that is now the case. That is not obstructed by this law in any way. That is not at all the intention of the law. Pumping around, I quote Mr Ceder.. has not been the intention of the Dublin countries. The Dublin countries have said that the first country you enter must be the country that handles the procedure. This will prevent you from pumping around, because it means that whoever arrives from another country in a Dublin country must stay in that country to go through the process. If, for whatever reason, that person chooses to go from the first country to the second, a third or a fourth country, then it is not the government of the fourth country that is pumping around. I understand that you have to put "choice" between quotes, but that is the choice of the person who left the first country and went to the second, third or fourth country. Dublin is precisely intended to prevent pumping or shopping.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u111	My question concerns precisely the cases where it is the question of whether it is fair or just not to grant such a person a stay. I know it has nothing to do with the bill. That is why I explicitly mention bodies like the IND with its working instructions. I believe that this is a concern that also lives with other groups. My question is therefore whether it should be possible, not through this legislative proposal and not in a generic sense, to grant legal residence in distressing and vulnerable cases. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Again, I do not mean on the basis of the bill, but it is connected, at least for my group. I wonder if the Secretary of State sees that that could be an option and, if so, if he could invest it somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u112	I'm extremely hesitant about that. I'm not talking about the second bill on children. I will come to that in a moment; that is not what Mr Ceder is referring to. This would mean that when you stay in the Netherlands for long enough in an illegal situation, at some point a situation arises where we say: you have been illegal for so long, that is why we are going to make you legal. In my view, you shouldn't encourage that as a government. That would mean that it would put a premium on failing to comply with what the court has ruled, namely: we have assessed your case and we have established that you are not entitled to lawful residence in the Netherlands. Judgments of the judge must ultimately be carried out by me, but also by any citizen, legal or illegal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u113	Rounding, short and pointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u114	I broadly agree with the Secretary of State that you should just follow the judge's rulings. At the same time, in administrative law and in other cases, there are hardness clauses, because the legislation works very often for the most part, but there must also be tailor-made solutions for distressing cases that the legislation has not provided for. So can the IND. The IND has the discretion. That's what it was invested in a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u115	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u116	My question is whether the Secretary of State would like to allow recognised statelessness to be taken into account, not seriously, in the assessment for lawful residence on 'humanitarian grounds'. It's already possible. The question is whether you can make that link now that there will be a new bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u117	If someone is out of state in the Netherlands, he can apply for asylum in the Netherlands just like a non-stateless person. We have procedures in case someone applies for asylum in the Netherlands. The head of the IND can say in very special cases: I now use discretion as head of the IND. I do not think that we should distinguish between a stateless person and a non-stateless person. The head of the IND currently has discretion in special cases. I wouldn't want to broaden it in any way, let alone have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u118	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u119	Why is there a lack of evaluation? That question was linked to the remark: I have a proposal for an evaluation clause. That was suggested by some. An evaluation clause is obvious by a temporary law that you make after the expiry of the temporary law or whether or not you permanently make it or not during an experiment. An evaluation clause is not obvious to this law, because this is a permanent law in which we also implement a treaty. So we cannot say at the end of an evaluation period: you know what, we do not make it a final law; we do not abide by the treaty. It is, of course, true, but that applies to every law and not specifically to this legislation that any law can be amended on the basis of experience proposed by the Chamber or the Cabinet. But that is why there is no evaluation clause. Mr. van Dijk, at some point you used the number 70,000; I'm telling you. There is no way we can think of where you are sorry, I mean Mr Van Dijk, who got that number. So I can't say anything meaningful about that. We just don't get the whole number, nobody does. Then there's the investigation into Roma statelessness. I will, of course, inform you about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u120	I'll give you a reference. That might be so neat. According to the CBS, 69,778 persons are registered as non-State or with nationality unknown in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u121	Those are not the figures I have at the moment. According to the figures I currently have, 6,000 people have the formal status of statelessness and 31,000 people in the population register are unknown as nationality. The NGOs estimate that there are 8,000 of those 31,000 people out of state. If that were true, you're talking 6,000 plus 8,000 is 14,000. By the way, of course, we are not talking about the category of illegal stateless persons, because their characteristic is that they are not registered in the population register. In the population register there are therefore 6,000 and possibly 8,000 is 14.000. But there can also be in the Netherlands... Even stronger, there are people in the Netherlands who are not registered in the Netherlands, but there are. Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind, I'm going to the adoption procedure. Why is no residence permit granted to established stateless persons? The first but purely technical reaction is that the treaty does not require it. The Convention even makes a clear distinction between the rights of stateless persons with a lawful residence and the rights of stateless persons without a lawful residence. So the treaty itself says that you can have both categories. Yes, stateless persons are more vulnerable, that was among other things Mr Ceder's contribution than the non-Stateless, even though both are not lawful in the Netherlands. But that is not the same as automatically obtaining a residence permit. Stateless people, like everyone else in the world, can, of course, ask for asylum procedures to be initiated. It may then prove whether they are entitled to a residence permit, yes or no. We can do that for any stateless person. That's why we have stateless persons with a residence permit. What is the added value of the out-of-debt procedure and why doesn't statelessness weigh more heavily? I have just said something about this in general. Just as specific, of course, is the fact that there are higher demands for a non-Stateless person than for a stateless person. I fully recognise that there are stateless persons who cannot help not being able to return to their homeland. This may be due to the fact that statelessness results from, for example, discrimination or non-recognition of that group. If that is the case, then it is not possible to return to the country of origin without guilt. Then they'll just get that out-of-law statement. How is it prevented from using the new option right and the adoption procedure to stack procedures? That was Mr. Brekelmans, but I'm pulling over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u122	You really shouldn't do that. You just have to leave that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u123	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u124	Mrs. Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u125	I was just waiting for the Secretary of State to finish, because I had asked for this earlier. I am glad that he acknowledges that from the out-of-debt procedure, but my question was very explicit as to whether we should not make this much clearer through, for example, an AMvB. The Council of State notes the lack of further clarification on how the out-of-debt criterion will be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u126	Let me think about that. Allow me to do so. We will undoubtedly have a second term at some point. Then the stacking, but we're talking about option right now. That's the other law, I'm just saying. Mr. Brekelmans, on the one hand, I have difficulty with your right to option. Just, I told you, whether an appointment is made between you and me, or an appointment within the coalition, or an appointment between Chamber and Cabinet, or an agreement by treaty, always applies: agreement is an agreement. That's the kind of deal you have to keep. The right of option is mentioned in the Treaty, and that is why I come up with the proposal to introduce the right of option. But it is absolutely true that this can create a form of reward for illegal residence in the Netherlands. After all, this means that after an x-period you obtain Dutch citizenship for the child. We are therefore expressly talking here about the people who are illegally staying in the Netherlands. They can thus obtain the Dutch citizenship for the child. And at the moment you can get it for the child, there can also be the Dutchmanship for the parents. That is why we have set a number of conditions. Mr Brekelmans has just mentioned them himself in his contribution. One of those conditions is that period of ten years. And another is that you shouldn't have left the government either. We have indeed set these conditions in order to prevent someone from saying: "I withdraw from the government, I do so for a number of years, and my child has acquired the right, and because my child has become that right, I get that right." We should not encourage people to stay illegally in the Netherlands, but we should slow it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u127	I agree with the Secretary of State when he says we have to fight abuse. So I agree. I'm having trouble with the reasoning, though. The right of option is about the child, not about the parents. The Secretary of State, the VVD and the PVV fear that there is a suction effect. But the right of option is, of course, about the child. I hear the Secretary of State now saying that he is, mostly, prepared to make additional demands because there is a fear of suction. This happens when it is actually intended to serve the best interests of the child. The purpose of the right of option is to serve the best interests of the child. That is why I do not think the behaviour of the parents can be leading. They can be a factor; that is why I agree that we must prevent abuse. But the behavior of the parents must not lead the way in determining what this means for the child. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u128	The complicated thing about being a child is that you depend on your parents' behavior. This can be about the choice where you're going to live, which is made for you. It may have to do with the choice of whether or not to get certain vaccinations. It may have to do with the choices parents make when you're sick, whether or not you're cured. It can be about choices about education. But it can also be about choices about staying in an illegal way in a particular country. The responsibility for these choices lies primarily with the parents. And we must at least prevent parents from choosing to use the child "as an instrument," I say disrespectfully for a moment. Because that would of course be the issue if one could obtain Dutch citizenship more easily through the child. It is therefore also more generally the responsibility of parents to serve the best interests of the child. This applies not only specifically to this subject, but also in general. And it is not in the best interests of the child to stay in the Netherlands illegally for a long time. Therefore, parents who are staying illegally in the Netherlands should also choose to return as soon as it has been established that they are not allowed to stay here. In fact, if you belong to a group of people for whom they do not have a chance to obtain a residence permit in the Netherlands, you should not really come here. 'Cause that's gonna hurt your kid's best interests. The child has an interest in returning to the country of origin as soon as possible and staying there in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u129	I give the floor to Mr Ceder for the fourteenth time. He's been interrupting a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u130	It's an important law, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u131	Yeah, it's a very important law. And your interruptions are also on the long side. So keep it brief and concise, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u132	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u133	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u134	The point of the Secretary of State is Kafkaesk, because stateless people, who are not recognised by any country, choose a country, in this case the Netherlands. And then the Secretary of State says: if you have no right to stay in the Netherlands, you should have stayed in another country. That is precisely the kafkaesque, because in such a case no country recognizes that person. But I asked the question whether the best interests of the child should not be leading. That question was not answered by the Secretary of State. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of Children, the behaviour of parents should in principle be excluded from the scope of the Convention and should not affect the fate of children or the choices made in relation to children. Does the Secretary of State at least agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u135	I am sorry, but I do not agree with what Mr Ceder said when he says that this is a Kafkaesque situation. When you stay as a stateless person in a country where you can stay safely and where you are not prosecuted, you can stay there, you do not have to come to a country like the Netherlands and then you have no right to stay in the Netherlands. If you come to the Netherlands as stateless because of your statelessness or because of other things, such as political activities or beliefs, in short, the matters for which you can obtain asylum in the Netherlands, then the asylum procedure can show that you can obtain a residence permit in the Netherlands. That is independent of your statelessness; that has become almost an irrelevant factor. So your statelessness sec doesn't tell you to leave your country. That has to do with whether you're safe in a country, yes or no. It's part of an asylum procedure. When it is established that you can be safe in the country where you come from, you do not automatically obtain a residence permit in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u136	Obviously. I would also ask the Secretary of State to give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u137	Short and concise. Now I have heard this statement. I understand him somewhere, although we can differ politically. But then the question remains as to where, as I mentioned earlier, the sucking effect becomes apparent. Because there are other countries that have made that link, so you can test that concern, which we as the Netherlands might have. As far as I know, that concern has not become a reality in those other countries. So why would we have them in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u138	Until now, I had not mentioned the words "sucking effect" at all. I was talking about rewarding certain behavior. The words'sucking effect' have been mentioned in the debate, but on the Chamber side and not on my side so far. By the way, we see that if we amend legislation which makes it easier or more difficult to obtain a residence permit, it has an effect on whether or not people come to the Netherlands. This is not specific in the context of this legislation, but in general. That could be about the amvs. In 2003, when we had changed the legislation, we suddenly saw a drop in the number of amvs. This could be other legislation, for example on sober care. Then we also immediately see that certain groups come less. So adapting the legislation which makes it more attractive or not, affects the arrival of people in the Netherlands. That does not mean anything about whether they have the right to a residence permit anywhere in Europe, but about which country they choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u139	My question was not generic but specific in the sense that many other countries in Europe have made this link. In fact, where is the concern that parents should use their child as an instrument, in the words of the Secretary of State, or as an anchor to stay in the Netherlands, not in a generic sense but in the context of this procedure? There are 12 other countries that we can reflect on. So what does it prove?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u140	We have two laws. A law is about the right of option. In doing so, we are opting for ten years in contrast, for example, to the amendment that opts for five years, because we are saying that I am now putting it a little harshly that you should not reward bad behavior, like staying if you are not allowed to stay. That is the argument in the right of option. When it comes to establishing statelessness, there are people, for example Mrs Koekkoek, who say that you should attach a residence status to it. That law can have an auspicious effect if you can have it established in the Netherlands that you are stateless and therefore entitled to a residence status. We're telling you not to make that automatic clutch. You need to see what your specific situation is. We don't do the opposite. When you come from a safe country, we don't say at the moment: you come from a safe country, so you automatically get no status, away with it. No, even then, we'll see if you're the one exception that's entitled to a status. The starting point is: look at it on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u141	Rounding up. Short. Pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u142	Yeah, I don't think I can get the answer to the question I'm asking. What's taking you so long? I understand perfectly well that we don't do it automatically. There is no one at all, neither am I, who advocates that it should be automatic. But there's coherence between those laws. There's a reason we're discussing them at the same time. This coherence exists, including in other countries which have the procedure for establishing statelessness. My question is: where does it come from that the concern we all recognise here and value in other ways is realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u143	If I wrongly accused Mrs Koekkoek of wanting that automatic coupling, then I apologize. But I think Mrs Kröger would not see it as an accusation, but as a valid fact, that at least she would like to make that link explicit. I see her nodding, so I'm right. We see that, when we make legislation more positive, it leads to people choosing more for one country or another. I mentioned the example of the amvs, but that's how you see it happening on several points. I get that. I'm not blaming anyone for that. I would also go for the country where I could get the easiest status. But that's not why we're sitting here together. We are sitting here together to have a just system on the one hand and on the other hand to have a system whereby we do not shoulder the burden of everyone, but do so on the basis of a shared justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u144	Clear. The Secretary of State has used 6 minutes of his own speaking time and 37 minutes of interruptions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u145	I'm on it, Mr. Chairman. I've got seven more folders. What does a stateless man have to say for the record? One of the things that is important for a stateless person is that, at the moment when it is established that one is stateless, it can ensure that one can obtain the Netherlands quickly in the event of lawful residence. The same applies to the question of why stateless persons should register with the population register. As soon as they do, they are eligible for certain facilities. That is, of course, the second category. So you have stateless persons who are non-legal and stateless persons who are legal. Stateless persons who are legal are eligible for a number of facilities because of their stateless registration. Can the Secretary of State reflect on the relationship between the bill and the undesirableness of stateless persons? The moment you're stateless, there's no relationship with the undesirable statement. The junk declaration isn't about stateless people, it's about illegals. There are people who are both stateless and illegal, but there are also a lot of people who are non-stateless and illegal. The law on the undesirable declaration therefore has nothing to do with stateless persons, but with people who are illegal in the Netherlands. It does not distinguish between stateless persons and non-Stateless persons. You just can't be unwelcome in the Netherlands. It remains to be seen how we're going to implement that law as soon as I come to you with a proposal. Mrs Kuik asked: if statelessness is established, how many cases will the procedure for a residence permit be followed afterwards? We don't know. Yeah, I can't make it any better right now. Mrs Kuik also asked how to prevent abuse of the adoption procedure. You can never completely prevent abuse of a procedure, but established statelessness does not lead to a residence permit. That helps, of course, to at least slow down. But it's complicated. Someone who's out of state can't prove that he's out of state in all cases. It's about making that plausible. There will undoubtedly be people who are not stateless but say they are, and we cannot then raise the opposite. You always keep people who could slip through it, but because there is no link to the residence permit it is slowed down. Mr President, to reassure you, things are going faster at some point, of course, because I have already answered a lot of questions because of the interruptions. The AMvB is still in internet consultation. That was said, among other things, by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Ceder. It's coming, but it's still in consultation. By the way, it does not come to you one-on-one linked to this law, but in that AMvB at least the four conditions under which there is apparent statelessness are laid down. In that case, municipalities can determine independently that there is statelessness. One reason could be because your parents are or because it's already been established by another country. Can we undertake to comply with the UNHCR guidelines? We have made it very clear that we will always keep the balance in the burden of proof in the adoption procedure. For a non-stateless person, there is a much greater burden of proof. If someone says he's from country X or Y, he can prove that, if it's okay, much easier than a stateless person can prove he's not from any country. At least he's from a country, but he doesn't have a nationality from a single country. Of course, that's very hard to prove. We understand that, but it's not the same as you can't prove it. I am now looking at Mrs Kröger, because I believe she used the example of the Rohingya. If I don't, I'm gonna do another wrong. Of course, it helps that you can show through some papers that you belong to that group. This can also be done by the group of Palestinians. You'd have put a lot of evidence in the first place. Of course, you don't have an equivalent of a passport to prove statelessness. In determining statelessness, it is therefore always a mix between the stateless, the alleged stateless, as I still have to say in this case, and the IND. Why is the possibility of appeal not provided for? That has to do with us choosing to have one de facto court in the Netherlands deal with this. We join the procedure with Article 17 of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. We choose a specific court specialising in this situation, which can therefore determine the factual situation. Then there is no second instance, but the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u146	Maybe there's a question. If you want to interrupt, Mr. Ceder, you really should stand by the microphone. If you're gonna be in the room halfway, I might think you're gonna have to do something else. Shall I leave Mrs Podt to the floor? No? Okay, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u147	I have a brief question about the AMvB, which is now for consultation. I believe that an article says that statelessness can be accepted if a number of designated countries give a statement. I wonder if the Ministry already has a picture of which countries that will be involved, and whether Suriname will be one of them. I think the Secretary of State knows that. In that country too, something happened around 1975, so I wonder if the Secretary of State can say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u148	As someone who lived in the Bijlmer like you, I know, of course, that some things happened in 1975. I don't know the list we're talking about here. As soon as we are out of the AMvB consultation, I will address Mr Ceder's questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u149	Clear. Mrs Podt, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u150	I believe that the Secretary of State has made an excellent point about the burden of proof, the more shared burden of proof. I think he also indicated that it doesn't have to be irrefutable, because that's very complicated. I specifically asked: are we going to take the UNHCR guidelines? I didn't really hear a very clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u151	We are trying to get as close to that as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u152	How many folders do we have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u153	The good news is I can put one all the way down, Mr. Chairman. We've got four more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u154	That's getting better. Hold this pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u155	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman. You see me put things away every now and then. I will if I've already answered those questions. Mr. Van Dijk mentioned the costs. We don't know yet. When it comes to the determination of Dutch citizenship, it is currently €314 for natural persons and €86 for people with disabilities. It is obvious that we will come to that, but I am not saying that very loudly. The pass. The card "the formal term "the identification document" "is complied with the Convention on the status of stateless persons." The treaty doesn't prescribe anything else about how the document is meant. If you're stateless, you've got two more options. If you are a stateless person with a residence permit, you can use that residence permit, if you are arrested on the street for any reason, show that you are lawfully in the Netherlands. So the moment you don't have a residence permit, you're similar to a non-stateless person who doesn't have a residence permit. Then you can show with your pass that you are a stateless person, but that doesn't mean that you have a document like a non-stateless person does have a passport but no residence permit. Mr. Chairman. I think I have said enough myself about why we have been elected for ten years. That's because you don't have to put a reward on, once again, harshly worded, wrong behavior. Then it's stable...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u156	Mrs. Podt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u157	I think it's obvious that an ID document isn't the same as a pass, but can he confirm that a stateless person can't be picked up just because he doesn't have an ID document but does have a pass? Shouldn't we write that down a little more clearly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u158	No, in many cases, a stateless person has a residence permit next to his or her card. So that's no reason to arrest that person. Because he or she has a pass, which says "I am X and I have a residence permit" with which he or she can show that he or she can stay in the Netherlands. It may be that you are also dealing with someone who does have the pass but is not legal in the Netherlands, and then they are treated just as much as any non-legal person in the Netherlands. When it comes to non-legal persons in the Netherlands, we do not have a standard system even stronger, not a 'packing system', to use the wrong terms in that framework but not to use them, but then it is treated like people who are illegal with a passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u159	I understand that, but the yeast is of course that we have an identification requirement in the Netherlands. So I get that someone doesn't have the same status, but someone has a pass. That's a form of identification, even if it's not the same identification. Is someone gonna get picked up because he doesn't have an I.D. on him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u160	No, if it's okay, then a cop knows: this is a stateless one, so he has a pass and no passport. The police should know that, because that's how it got in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u161	Yeah, "should know," there I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u162	I can never say for all x-000 agents that they all know, but that goes for more regulation. I know that when I was responsible deputy mayor, I was almost arrested once while I was just on my way to City Hall because of an ME activity. The ME came from Heerenveen and didn't recognize me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u163	These are the anecdotes we want to hear. Then why did the M.E. want to chop you up? What was your suspicious behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u164	No, Mr. Chairman, Pegida was demonstrating. There were also people there who disagreed with Pegida and were demonstrating. I looked a little too much in my sweater and jeans as an anti-Pegidademonstrant instead of the deputy mayor of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u165	Mr. Markuszower's snoring a little bit. This is an open shot, Mr. Markuszower. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u166	I would like to hear more anecdotes, but we are going back, because this illustration with that ID card raises the question again: what is the next step in the image of the Secretary of State for an established stateless without a residence permit? That person doesn't have a country he can go back to, because it's a stateless one. We've established that with each other. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u167	A stateless person who does not have a residence permit applies for a residence permit in the Netherlands. That's the asylum procedure, in normal Dutch. At the end of the asylum procedure, there are two possibilities: that person obtains that asylum and is then a status holder, with everything that goes with it, or is established that this is initially done by the IND, but I can imagine that the stateless person then goes to court "you are stateless, but still there is no right for you to stay in the Netherlands." Then the stateless person who has no right to stay in the Netherlands should leave the Netherlands, as should the non-stateless person who has no right to stay in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u168	But we just found out it's a stateless one. So he doesn't have a country to go to, because he doesn't have a nationality. So where does this person go in the State Secretary's image?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u169	No, you can't say that a stateless person who doesn't have a nationality can't return to another country. If that is the case, then there will be an out-of-debt statement, but it seems that Mrs Kröger's example does not mention that. He doesn't have a statement of innocence. That means he can go to another country. If he can't go to another country, he has an out-of-debt statement. But the simple fact that you're a stateless doesn't mean you can't go back to another country. Let me give you an example. You're in Italy and you're stateless, but you're born in the Netherlands. So you can return to the Netherlands as stateless. This could also be done with a number of countries in the reverse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u170	Rounding, short and pointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u171	The Secretary of State presents a theoretical situation with the Netherlands and Italy. In my opinion, the empirical situation, which Mr Ceder also pointed out, was that people, stateless people, do not return to the country from which they come, because they cannot go back there. The Secretary of State outlines all kinds of procedures here, but if we find that someone is stateless, shouldn't you link that residence permit to it, as France does, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u172	No, because a stateless person can return to the country of origin. You have stateless people with a residence permit; they stay here. You have stateless people without a residence permit that has been established that they don't get them either. Then you have two more categories. You have stateless people without a residence permit at the end of the procedure that has been established to be able to return. Then they'll have to come back. You also have undocumented stateless people who have been found unable to return. If you're stateless without papers that can't return, then there's a statement of innocence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u173	Fine. Can the Secretary of State conclude so we can move on to a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u174	Yes, Mr President, but I still have to dwell on RANOV and its relationship with other countries. But if I don't mention stable stay, I think a few people are gonna get angry, too. I have already mentioned some of the following in my response to Mr Brekelmans. Why do we choose very strongly for stable stays? Because otherwise, as I just described it, there may be the next situation. You withdraw from the government to meet the second criterion in this way, i.e. the ten years, or in the amendment of some the five years, and in order to obtain Dutch citizenship in this way. In the interpretation of the cabinet, stable residence within the treaty fits. That is why we are strongly in favour of this. You can see I'm going through it very quickly now. Mr. Brekelmans. I'm going to put it a little sharp, maybe a little too sharp. But in the five-year period immediately prior to the request for the decision, you should not be sanctioned or enforced for a crime. So you must have stayed clean for five years. We have done so very emphatically, precisely to prevent the granting of Dutch citizenship from going too quickly. So in those five years, you must have stayed clean. Why is a distinction made between children with legitimate residence and children without lawful residence? That's about the three years versus the ten years. If you are lawfully staying here, you can stay here; it is already in the text. So if you are not allowed to stay here legally, then we want to make it more difficult to obtain Dutch citizenship, while we still want to comply with the Treaty. There is therefore a three-year residence in the case of a lawful residence and a ten-year residence in the case of a non-legal residence. Mr Brekelmans asked a question about the fact that only 12 countries have complied with the Convention. The Treaties do not explicitly require a decision-making procedure, but implicitly. For the treaties grant rights to stateless people, but for that you must be able to determine who is stateless. Therefore, the choice was made to set up a adoption procedure. It is indeed possible to establish statelessness in another procedure. Other countries may have done the same. We are making a different choice. That's why we called it in to the special court. Mr Brekelmans had another question. Then I am really approaching the end of my reply, at least with regard to the current comparison with other Member States. Although nationality law within the Union has not been harmonised in the drafting of the legislative proposals, the way in which other Member States have implemented it has also been considered. After all, they are all members of the two non-state treaties. The long-term duration of these legislative proposals has been mentioned by many since 1954 and 1961. It is only since 2013 that people are really working on it. Due to the long duration of these legislative proposals, there is currently no current inventory. There is therefore no complete overview of the current state of affairs in other Member States at present either. If that's what your Chamber wants, of course I can arrange it for you. But it takes time. Depending on how deep you want it, you decide for yourself a part of that time. Mr President, finally, RANOV, and then I am all done. RANOV deals with licence holders and naturalisation following the motion to which Mr Van Dijk referred. On 1 November, we changed the policy on foreign identity and nationality documents. As a result, it has become easier to obtain Dutch citizenship, because the document requirement has fallen. However, we still have to establish the nationality of people, for example in the context of public order and national security. If there is any doubt about that, it could mean that things are not going as they wish. And then the final sentence, President: of the 2.320 naturalisations received until 1 March by RANOV holders of the then multi-annual licences, because that is what we are talking about here and children travelling with us have so far been rejected and 1,030 have now been accepted by the IND. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u175	Fine. Mr Ceder briefly, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u176	As far as the withdrawal and the ten years are concerned, as you know, there is an amendment to shorten it to five years. I wonder what that ten years is based on. Is that an arbitrary consideration to prevent abuse and because ten is a good number or are there empirical data behind it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u177	The treaty does not allow for more than ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u178	That means that the maximum time limit has been set. In the consideration made by the Christian Union with D66, research also shows that children can be harmed if you remove them from the environment after five years. Has the cabinet considered that consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u179	I told you, I'm having trouble with that option scheme myself, but it's in the treaty we signed. So we have to do that, but as far as I am concerned, we have to stick to those ten years. It is primarily up to the parents of the child concerned to follow up on what is best for the child. If they are not allowed to stay legally in the Netherlands, that is to return to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u180	Mrs. Kuik, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u181	I want to understand that point of five and ten years. The Secretary of State says we shouldn't reward bad behavior, but by definition, is it true that people who have a stateless child exhibit bad behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u182	No, of course not. You show bad behavior if you don't do what the law or the judge said. At the moment you are stateless but are allowed to stay in the Netherlands, you should stay mainly in the Netherlands... Well, you shouldn't have anything, but then you can of course stay in the Netherlands. Then I'd say do the same. But the moment the judge says you can't stay in the Netherlands, you show bad behavior if you stay in the Netherlands, because then you don't stick to judgments of the judge. That's what I meant by "bad behavior": you have to stick to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u183	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u184	Nevertheless, I am looking for the figures and the facts behind them that indicate that there is bad behaviour. How many people are we talking about? Because it is not for nothing that we choose the right of option to ensure that children who are stateless can actually stay here at some point. That's after ten years, as it says. What are the numbers back there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u185	No, there are no numbers behind that, because it doesn't matter if you stay in the Netherlands for five years or ten years. The moment the judge says you can't stay in the Netherlands, you can't stay in the Netherlands. If you don't leave then you show up... I understand well that it may take some time for you to leave the Netherlands, but then I think rather of weeks or months and not years. The moment you stay in the Netherlands when you are not allowed to stay here, the CDA, for example, thinks that there should be an undesirable statement. So it's just the CDA saying that the moment you're not allowed to be here, you're undesirable. That's not my point of view. At least, yes, because I am in the cabinet, but that was instructed by Mrs Kuik and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u186	The Secretary of State is talking about a sucking effect, at least in his written reply. I hear here behind me saying that it is not, but the written answer says: we do not choose the amendment to go from ten to five years, because it has a sucking effect. Well, that's got to be backed up. What's that based on? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u187	No, you have clearly heard me say here in the debate that I am mainly linking the sucking effect to the law on the determination of statelessness and the associated possible residence permit, which Mrs Kröger mentioned. The right of option is very clearly linked to the fact that you should not encourage people who do not implement the law and the judge's ruling to choose to stay in the Netherlands, because after a certain period they obtain Dutch citizenship via the child. I then got the question from Mr Ceder, I think, why I choose ten years. That's because the treaty says it should be a maximum of ten years, but I don't think you should be able to get Dutch citizenship on the basis of your failure to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u188	I'm having a hard time with this. The Secretary of State insists that we should not reward bad behavior. That's fine, but there are a lot of stateless people who can't leave in weeks or months. They've been sitting here for seven, eight or nine years. I've spoken to them. They can't go anywhere. Then it gets really complicated. Some of those people have kids, too. Those countries that DT&V says they should go back there, do not recognise them as a national. Well, then it's kind of hard for me to talk about bad behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u189	I'm sorry, but I really don't agree with Mrs Podt. As soon as it's been established that you can't return, there's a statement of innocence. Apparently, a judge has finally established that you can return. If you can return and that has been established by the judge, then I assume that D66 also believes that judgments of the judge should be enforced. They are either people who have been declared innocent or those who have not been declared innocent. If you haven't been declared innocent, then you can do something about it by leaving. That's the judge's decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u190	Yeah, but that was my earlier point about the out-of-debt procedure. The judge goes along with that, because statelessness still isn't quite clear how do you say? The Court of Justice of the European Communities held that the Court of Justice of the European Communities had jurisdiction in the That's what these people run into.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u191	I think I will repeat myself if I now pronounce the same text as the previous five times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u192	We're not gonna do that. Mr. Brekelmans. I'd like to join the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u193	Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I'd like to make an order proposal. An amendment was tabled yesterday. I see that other amendments are now being passed. They have quite an impact. I said in my speech that I wanted to assess the amendments on the basis of two things. One. How does this relate to the recommendation of the Van Zwol Committee on long-term stays and the discouragement of illegally long-term stays? Two. How does that relate to what our neighbouring countries are doing? The Secretary of State indicated that he did have an image of this for some countries, but that he did not have an up-to-date overview of the important European countries to which this applies. Before I can go into all the amendments that have been tabled in my second term, I would like to have that information and consider it in order to form my opinion and therefore to be able to do my second term. My specific proposal would be to put forward this second deadline for some time when this information is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u194	So the whole second term? That would mean we're quitting right now. Let me just say that for the sake of clarity. So it is not just the second term of the government, but also the second term of the Chamber. It's okay. Officially, I'll have to organize an order debate and see if there's a majority, but I just want to get a pulse. Then we'll see how far we can get. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u195	Support, especially if the Secretary of State indicates how other countries deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u196	Maybe I'm wrong about this, but absolutely no support. Mr Brekelmans may ask for the appreciation in writing and then we can vote on everything. In the second period, he does not have to deal with the amendments, because he can simply make his own contribution. They're not his amendments, are they? I don't understand anything about this order proposal. Let's just please finish this and then we can vote on everything on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u197	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u198	I can support it. I must say, however, that I still find the link to Van Zwol amazing, as I said in the order debate. When it comes to the Secretary of State's commitment to look in the second term at the need for an AMvB for the out-of-debt procedure, I would be delighted if he would take that with him. Maybe he can take a look at the model Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u199	But then you support the idea of doing it at another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u200	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u201	Also support, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u202	And so is Mr. Ceder, I presume. Yes. There is not an official majority for this proposal, but well, I'm just suggesting that we do it. By the way, what does the Secretary of State say about that? Does he have an opinion or a wish? Not that we're gonna listen to that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u203	Mr President, it is the implementation of a Treaty of 1954 and 1961.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u204	So it can be a week later. All right, let's do that. I would like to point out, however, that you may have seen the arrangements for this afternoon's proceedings, and that there are a lot of urgent debates. And we're gonna deal with laws on Wednesday. So next week on the agenda, I don't see anything happening. So it might take a while, weeks. Besides, the recess is coming. So you should know. Anyway, then we're just gonna stop for today and we're gonna book in the second term at another time, both the cabinet and the government's. The Secretary of State is pretty much wearing his coat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-05-tweedekamer-32.u205	We thank the Secretary of State for his contribution today. We wish him a pleasant stay and we will soon see him again in blazing health. I shall close the meeting on 5 April.
