ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the joint discussion of legislative proposals 35455, the Temporary Experimentation Act new ballots, and 35670, Amendment of the Election Act in connection with the final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Elections are the celebration of democracy. Elections win, I think I know something about it, and basically comes down to two pillars: good ideas and good people. Of course, marketing and the campaign also matter, but without good ideas and good people you can campaign whatever you want, but then it won't work. Today we are dealing with an experimental law that does some violence to one of the two basic pillars of the elections, namely the pillar of good people. The present law introduces a electoral form that resembles a sudokupuzzeltje. The voter has to put two numbers together to vote. The candidate representatives no longer use their name on the form, but become an empty ball. As you can see, we're not that excited. In our view, the starting point or the problem posed by this law is incorrect. The explanatory memorandum to the law states that the current ballot would be too large and therefore difficult to handle. Mr. Chairman. First of all, we believe that it is a good thing if a voting form is very large. This means that there is much to choose: a large number of parties and a large number of candidate representatives are fighting for the favour of the electorate. So big is good in this case. The second point was that the current form would be difficult to handle. We doubt that this is a widely-behaved feeling. I talk to voters all the time. "Do something about that hard-to-hand ballot" is not in the left row of conversational topics. In fact, I have never heard that from a voter. I will look at the three main arguments for this new form. The first argument is the ease of counting. That's a serious point. Counting a foldable form takes time, especially when it is big and especially after a long day in the polling room. Although understandable, in our view there are alternatives to limiting that time, namely a good counting strategy with good instructions and sufficient voting rooms with a manageable capacity and a good occupancy. I would also like to point out, for example, the CRAFT counting system that many municipalities apply. I've been in my own town asking how things went in the last election. By counting the forms with a structured methodology, they achieved hours of savings compared to the times they didn't. My question to the Minister is whether she is aware of this system and whether she agrees with our group that, by drawing attention to it, without a legislative proposal, a huge profit can be made. Then the second argument for this law and this form. That's trustworthy. The new counting form would lead to more structured counting and reduction of the likelihood of errors. Recently counting errors were two months the conversation of the day in the municipality of Maassluis. A difference of only two votes determined in that municipality or the last seat went to Livable Maassluis or the United Seniors Party. There was a return twice. Indeed, after the first count, the seat shifted. I was wondering when discussing and preparing this proposal whether this issue would have gone differently with this experimental survey form. I'm afraid to accept that statement. With such small differences, it is always exciting with count errors. Maybe the Minister will look at that differently. We have a further comment on the reliability. The question is whether this large fold-out form does not benefit the reliability of counting. Any citizen in our democracy can and may attend the censuses. The manual folding and stacking of these large forms is very easy for them to follow and check, precisely because it goes slowly and manually. So isn't a large form more reliable? The third argument for this bill is recognizability. This is mainly about the logos of the parties. The new ballots proposed offer the possibility to mention parties' logos. This would be of benefit to recognizability, especially for the low-literate. I also have a question for the Minister. Is that really what this legislative change is about? Is it really not possible for logos to be added within the current legal framework, i.e. on the current electoral forms? Mr. Chairman. These are the main arguments for this bill: count-friendliness, reliability and recognizability. But, as I said, there's a lot to be done. There are a number of important comments on these arguments. I'll give you three. Point one is the recognizability. People, as I mentioned in my introduction, are reduced to songs in the new form. Their name is no longer on the voting form. That is what we think does, with people making themselves available as candidate representatives on the ground and on the roads. People want, in our opinion, to vote for people and not for numbers. Then there is the second point: involvement. My group believes it is likely that removing the names of people from electoral lists will increase the distance between the electorate and the elected and reduce the involvement. "He or she gets my vote" works, we think, yet less convincing if there are no names on the forms. The third point concerns the intention. By reducing politicians, candidate representatives, to numbers, the power of political parties is increased. From a constitutional point of view, there is no role for parties such as the role provided by this experiment. People's representatives have the primacy towards political parties. The Constitution does not even mention political parties. The Election Board previously expressed its concern about this system, as the absence of a vote for a specific candidate will lead to a vote for the List Tractor. That is a big step towards a party vote, rather than a vote on an individual candidate representative. Mr. Chairman. This experimental law is adversely affected by the recognition, involvement and the intention of the current way in which we elect representatives of the people in the Netherlands. My group believes that these disadvantages are far more substantial and fundamental than the mainly practical benefits such as count ease. We are in favour of democratic renewal, but we are critical of this experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Mr Koole has another question for you. Mr Koole, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u5	I would like to ask Mr Van der Linden a question. He made a lot of comments and comments on the bill. Often I heard the phrase "we think," "we suspect." Now this is an experimental law. Shouldn't you be voting in favour of this bill just to get some certainty about these suspicions and whether they're justified? Experiments can tell whether the voters will actually see the candidates as numbers, or not, or whether it will be easy, or whether the recognition will actually get worse or perhaps better. That's what experiments are for. It is not a question of the final introduction of a particular ballot, but of an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u6	I don't know if, if you're going to do such an experiment, you can actually come to the conclusion that voters don't see the candidates as people anymore, but as numbers. That's our guess. That's our opinion. We don't think the experiment is necessary for that. If you do do do the experiment, it is still doubtful whether you can actually prove that this is the result. We would therefore not like to spend our time and our energy in this experiment, but rather in improving counting systems, counting strategies and supporting polling stations, for example in terms of fees for people in a counting office, support for them and that sort of thing. We really do see more in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u7	Now the organisations for people with disabilities have strongly insisted on the adoption of this law. Of course, they don't do that for nothing. Now nothing's for sure. In the preliminary phase, as I understand it, all kinds of tests have been carried out, but that was of course not in real life. Now it is said: in a few experimental communities we are going to try that under certain conditions in real elections, to get answers to issues that may still have some doubts. Now Mr Van der Linden says: that is not necessary. But he could also say: let's see; if it doesn't work out what we want, we will eventually vote against a proposal that the experiment would lead to, if ever there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u8	I did not mention that in the top three arguments, but an improvement for people with visual impairment, for example, is certainly an important argument for taking action. Now it is true that a lot is already happening in this area.I have seen this myself, also in my own municipality.With soundboxes, with systems, with training in advance, with information. I see a lot of promising developments there. My group therefore believes that we should continue to do so. But we find this change very difficult, with this whole new form. That has a number of disadvantages, for that one advantage which we do agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u9	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u10	Then I note that the possible disadvantages are indeed very serious. I would ask: why not give the benefit of the doubt? You can test that doubt in an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u11	It's the first term. I have made the comments of my group, but the debate is not over. We are going to listen to the arguments, including those of Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u12	In fact, I would like to ask myself: can it still happen that the Nanninga Group is going to vote for the law here? And under what conditions would that be? I had another question, which refers to the second legislative proposal that is on the table here, namely the ballots for voters abroad. In the same way, they receive a list of only the party names with the logos and numbers. Does Mr Van der Linden have the argument that applies to the experiment law, also applicable to the other law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u13	Yes. The answer to the first question is: we are just going to listen carefully and if there are really fantastic new insights here in the debate, then we are always ready to reconsider our opinion. But our basic attitude is not enthusiastic. The arguments I have just mentioned for the most important point before us do indeed apply to that second proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you. Mr Doornhof has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. On 4 February 2020, we held an exchange of views in the permanent room at the Binnenhof on the report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System, the State Committee on Remkes. That report states that our democracy is working well in principle, but that our system must be made more future-proof. For this purpose, valuable recommendations have been made, for example to increase the regional component of the electoral system. In particular, the electoral system of the citizens' forum is envisaged. The state committee says that such a electoral system must be accompanied by a new ballot, because that must be adjusted accordingly. That can be smaller and clearer. Now the Home Affairs Committee of our Chamber has had a pleasant acquaintance with the Minister. We also discussed her outline letter there. It states that the proposal to revise the electoral system will be examined further. That proposal is called with one voice more choice. The Council of State has now given a positive opinion on this matter, I would not say. Contrary to what the state committee actually said, we now see that a legislative proposal has been put forward to make the ballot easier to handle. Now my group also thinks that the ballot could be a little more practical. My group therefore understands the experiment proposed. You have only seen that we have been somewhat critical in our written contribution. This has to do with the fact that the ballot is the most direct instrument of the citizen vis-à-vis individual candidate-people representatives. If you look precisely at the person of the people's representative, so not at his or her party, the legislative proposal may make the operation of that instrument more uncertain. How you turn it or turn it, you will first have to specify which party you choose and then you will look at the person of the candidate. In model 2 of these experimental banknotes there are no names on the banknote besides lots, but only numbers. I'd like to quote that. The question then is whether increasing the operability of the ballot will outweigh all of this. The government says that a test has been looked at in a re-division election and that a comparison has also been made with national elections. It looked at how voters abroad voted and what voters in the Netherlands did. It has just been said in an interruption that the ballot used by Dutch people abroad is very similar to the second model of the experimental notes. The government says that on the basis of this information, there is no reason to assume that the proposed ballot is less likely to cast a vote on one of the lower candidates than with the current ballot. You can ask yourself, of course, what scientific conclusions you should draw from those trials. In addition, the question of preferred votes does not say everything about what an experimental banknote does with how voters work in the voting booth. What does the relationship between the party and the individual candidate look like? The CDA continues to doubt whether the person, the candidate, will receive sufficient attention in the voting booth. Is the visibility of her or him sufficient? Can the Minister tell us whether she sympathizes with my group in this respect? Maybe she can take the bill with one vote more choice, which I just mentioned. That bill is based on the Civil Forum electoral system. As far as we know now, it is intended to introduce the possibility for the electorate to vote either on an individual candidate, the candidate vote or on the list where the candidates of the political group in question are united, the list vote. The candidate votes are going to weigh more heavily in the allocation of seats to individual candidates than in the system with preferred votes that we now have. In any case, such a new system should mean that you will also be given a new ballot. The idea would then be that the experimental notes could more or less go with the new system. We need to see if the bill is coming through the House of Representatives at all. The First Chamber will have to look at that in its core after that. I can say, however, that increasing the regional component is something that my group does feel strongly about. Mr. Chairman. Today, however, we are talking about the ballot. As far as my group is concerned, it is not immediately obvious that you can simply take the intended experimental notes with you. The question is, for example, whether you will ensure that the issuing of a candidate vote is as attractive as the issuing of a list vote. If a bill doesn't have names, but numbers, will you take care of that insurance? If you also have doubts as to whether the visibility of individual candidates is not being overly violent, we are doing so, then it might be wise not to introduce a new ballot as an experiment in anticipation of a change in the electoral system itself. The importance of accessibility for the blind and the visually impaired must, of course, also be given a heavy role. Finally, Mr President. The State Committee naturally assumed that a new ballot would be linked to the introduction of an adapted system, the Civil Forum electoral system. The CDA Group raises the issue of whether this Chamber should not follow that principle. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Mr Van Hattem has the floor. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals which the current minister has received from the legacy of her predecessor and which she has continued to deal with. These legislative proposals are therefore still the brainchild of the former Minister of the Interior Ollongren and also bear witness to the world view of her D66 Republic of Amsterdam: experimenting with a new design for our democratic process as if it were a new hip avantgarde concept in a canal belt bistro and in a world without borders to make the global expat as comfortable as possible. The voting forms would be too large, so the voter will no longer be given a normal menu in this election establishment in order to indicate his preference for a candidate as directly as possible, but may only draw a number in this experiment to indicate a preferred candidate. The names of the candidates are replaced by anonymous numbers. This makes it for voters and candidates with this experimental law not a hip star restaurant, but at most a takeaway toko with numbers. Welcome to the D66 Appearance World. The other model in the experimental law makes it even more colourful: a display with boxes for ballots, as if you were pulling a frikandel out of the wall. What do voters get out of this bullshit? To what extent did voters complain at all about over-statutory voting forms? Can the Minister indicate that? With the other bill Dutch people abroad are pampered as much as possible with an e-mail procedure to make them voting as easy as possible. The most recent elections in this country, the municipal elections last March, have seen a dramatic low turnout in most municipalities. In many municipalities the turnout was less than 50%, which makes the largest party in those municipalities the party of the non-voters. In some municipalities, trusted polling stations have also been closed for decades and voters have been at a closed door, sometimes not to release their voices and return home in the dark. Surely the greatest concern and commitment of the Minister of the Interior should be expected: to increase turnout and thus strengthen representative democracy? Instead, this minister continues this bizarre experimental plan of her predecessor, a plan that may have an adverse effect on turnout. With such a complicated voting procedure, many more voters will probably stay at home. How does the Minister view that risk? Can it indicate the impact it expects of this proposal on turnout rates? What steps will it take to encourage a higher turnout? Isn't it much more important to ensure sufficient voting rooms in every Dutch municipality instead of facilitating expats? The legislative proposal final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands is also a temporary law that is made permanent. A course of action that we have seen more recently in this cabinet, such as the plan that died in this Chamber last week to make the Temporary Law measures covid-19 permanent. Nothing is as permanent as temporary government measures, it turns out. This law allows Dutch voters abroad to receive the ballot by e-mail. The cabinet argues that ballots sent by post may not be delivered to voters abroad in good time. Nevertheless, the option of sending by post remains open if voters explicitly request it. That calls for a contradiction. What does this mean for the enforcement of this law, if the cabinet itself states that this delivery by post may not take place in time? What does this mean for voters if they want to make use of this opportunity and there is no timely delivery at the time? To what extent can these voters rely on the Dutch government if this possibility is offered in this way and does this method not make this bill inconsistent? Can the Minister also indicate what happens if voters abroad have not provided an e-mail address? Do they receive the ballots by mail by default? With regard to the e-mail procedure, the Minister states in the explanatory statement that it is undesirable to apply it to Aruba, Curaçao and St Maarten, because in 2019 it appeared that several voters had given the address of a political party. This means that this e-mail procedure for ballots can lead to electoral fraud. Can the Minister therefore explain why she does want to apply this procedure in other countries? Such fraud can also take place there by means of specified addresses. For example, there could be a coordinated action to obtain as many votes among Dutch voters in Turkey as possible for the long arm of Erdogan in the Netherlands. I'd like a response. This bill is also subject to an amendment to the House Act, which has nothing to do with this proposal, by letter of amendment. That was done simply to get it dealt with as soon as possible. The amendment in question had to be made by both Chambers because of the planned introduction of the Environment Act before 1 July. This way of working of the cabinet puts an unacceptable pressure on Parliament, by assuming that the bill is going to succeed in both Chambers in any case and to deal with it within that time frame. But what if this bill is voted down in this Chamber? Can the Minister state what that means for the amendment of the Housing Act? Will there still be a separate legislative proposal and can it be dealt with in good time? Such non-coherent supplementary laws and provisions are, in any case, totally undesirable in the future. That is also in line with the Hoekstra motion adopted earlier. Mr. Chairman. During the written preparation, our PVV Group discussed in detail the feasibility of the experimental law for the new ballots and in particular their risks. The risks of voting fraud, manipulation and degradation of voting secrecy are evident, especially in the display model, where voters have to withdraw a ballot from a box. Voters can be confronted with an empty box of their preference. It remains the question of how they can make this known to the polling station in practice without revealing their secret vote. Refilling by the polling bureau may also entail these risks, as well as a shortage of certain forms. The Minister's answer does not go beyond that "depends on the design of the display." In order to prevent a voter from pulling multiple ballots out of the display, "the procedure will be provided for" said the Minister. So we don't know anything yet, but this Chamber is now being asked to give the green light to this experimental law. Although the Minister states that further rules on this matter will still be submitted to Parliament, in such crucial aspects of the electoral process we need to be able to assess the feasibility of the legislative proposal on good grounds. If voting secrecy and a fair electoral process are at stake, a legal basis must not be created lightly. It remains odd that the Minister intends to experiment primarily in smaller municipalities, with less than 25,000 inhabitants, in the planned reclassification elections in November of this year. Especially during the council elections in such smaller municipalities, very extensive lists of candidates with many parties and many candidates are not at all on the agenda. The big ballot is not on the table at all. So it's going to be an experiment in a setting that says absolutely nothing about the problem. Then what does the Minister think he can learn from an experiment in such municipalities? Furthermore, there will be a strange discrepancy due to the vote on the party and candidate number in the Leijten amendment that has been adopted. A voice on the party alone is valid abroad, but in model 2 of the experimental law this will not be the case. Can the Minister indicate whether this situation will ultimately lead to unnecessarily many invalid votes? The Minister also expressed the intention to make electronic counting possible in the future by means of the new ballots. Can the Minister explain why computers and software are being relied on to do counts, but voting machines are still seen as unreliable? Is this not going to create additional risks of electoral manipulation and further undermining confidence in the voting process and thus in fair elections? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Given the voting ratio in the Lower House, there is a good chance that the experimental law for the new ballots will not make it in this Chamber. The PVV Group will also vote against. Candidates should not degrade to anonymous songs in a strange untrustworthy display, and we are certainly not waiting for ballots in the booth. However, the bill for the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands seems to be going to make it if we follow the voting ratio in the Lower House. The ballot used in that bill corresponds almost to the ballot from model 2 of the experimental law: the ballot with the party and the candidate numbers. Can the Minister rule out the possibility that the foreign ballot will thus be accepted as a future model in our national voting process? I'd like a response. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u19	I listened with interest. On one point, I share Mr Van Hattem's concern. That's about that special article about the House Act. Indeed, that does not belong in any of these laws; we agree on that. Of course, in the written round of questions, everything has been said about this. However, on the other points raised by Mr Van Hattem, I still have a few questions. He started very flamboyant about "the Amsterdam Republic and a restaurant and menus." Now I also know restaurants, in Amsterdam but also elsewhere, where they have a menu. You can see what you can choose from there. Sometimes there's a separate map on the wall. There are sometimes even pizzerias where the names of the pizzas are so complicated that people who want them say at the order: give number seventeen. Then they know exactly which pizza is meant by that. So I don't know if that analogy with that restaurant is really gonna help you. My question to Mr Van Hattem is as follows. He has spoken a few times about "possible" and "maybe." I have already said in an earlier intervention that this is an experimental law. It is intended precisely to find out whether opportunities exist or whether the opposite is the case. An experimental law could therefore give answers to Mr Van Hattem's doubts. Why doesn't he take that into account? He also remarked that we have experience with temporary laws and that they quickly become eternal. That may be true for some temporary laws, you can be critical about them, but an experimental law is by definition temporary, in order to be able to experiment. It's to see if you're gonna continue with it, if the experiment works out, and if you don't like it, you're gonna stop and there's not gonna be a follow-up at all. So I also have a question about the issue of temporaryity: isn't that automatically linked to an experimental law? Finally, Mr Van Hattem has already said in the first round today that he will vote against. Unlike Mr Van der Linden, he is not open to a possible change of position on the basis of the debate. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u20	And then the request to answer this huge series of questions, which seems more like a second term, somewhat succinctly, Mr. Van Hattem. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u21	Perhaps I can express myself as succinctly as Konrad Adenauer, who once said, "Keine Experimente." In this case, I say: no experiments with our electoral system, at least not with the basis of our electoral system, in such a poorly worked-out way. We have a number of factors that are crucial to ensure the secret of voting and trust in a fair electoral process. Then you don't have to do this in this way, where we have no clarity at all about how this is going to work, throw it over here about the fence of the First Chamber and say: we'll see what it's going to be; it's an experiment and it can still go in all directions. No, you just have to be completely clear about that and not take any risks. What is being put on the table is so much unclear that there are risks to the reliability of the voting process. Many voters will have problems with this. For example, you get the situation that many voters only make the ball of the party red and forget to make the ball of the candidate red, making it an invalid voice. The risk of unnecessarily many invalid votes is huge in this system. That's not going to be dealt with. That does happen with the voices from abroad, so that's already a strange figure who's in these two laws. That is what we say: we should not start with that at all. It just needs to be clear to voters. Then there is the position of the individual candidates. Mr Koole can say: it is easy to order so much in a pizzeria to get a quattro stagioni or something else. That's all nice and nice, but a candidate for a parliament or a city council isn't a pizza. We're talking about people here. The person should just be on a list by name and by name, so that people have clear: I want to vote for that person. That is an important principle in our democracy. That's what we have to assume. The election candidates are not eligible for running for election for nothing. Signatures must also be collected in the voting process, for example if they are to participate for the first time. People must also sign for this so that it is clear who will be the representative on behalf of the electorate. They should be able to vote for it, not for a party and a number. That system does not do justice to the person of the passive candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr Koole, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u23	Short. Of course, candidates aren't pizzas, but I went over your equation. You talked about "the Amsterdam Republic with all kinds of restaurants" and you compared the election process with Amsterdam's restorative establishments. So I went on to do that, but if you don't think that's appropriate, I'd like to say that. But I note, and that is also the question, that if Mr Van Hattum says 'keine Experimente', that means that you cannot find out through a careful experiment whether a possible risk arises in practice or not. So you say "never change anything more, because every experiment always leads to deterioration," while maybe it could also prove that it can work and then you can move on. So that always excludes Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u24	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u25	If Mr Koole had listened carefully to me, he would also have heard me say: no careless experiments. A very careless experiment is taking place here which, as I said, is only applied in smaller municipalities. In a small municipality, where only five parties, each with fifteen candidates, are on the list, the problem with those far too large electoral lists is thus not at all. Then you will get that situation translated into the elections for Provincial States or for the House of Representatives, with a lot of people on a list. That's not a careful investigational setup. That's what you're actually calling something into life. You're creating with this law at least a foundation for....................................................................................................................................................................... This is just a setup of an experiment that's gonna cause problems. This is one of the possibilities. The other possibility is that of the display, where people have to pull the lists out of boxes. I have said of this: there are major problems in practice, where the secret of voting can be compromised. You shouldn't experiment with that. With something as crucial as the secret of voting, which is an important right of our citizens, you should not experiment in such a careless manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you. Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u27	Of course I share the wish that it all happens carefully, but I have actually heard Mr Van Hattem say: keine Experimente. There wasn't the word "carefully" in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u28	That was the conciseness that had been asked. Indeed, with the rights of our constituents, we are not just going to experiment. So I am curious about Mr Koole's contribution. I shall, of course, add to that the necessary interruptions. So far in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u29	I'll take full responsibility. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are faced with two different legislative proposals which have parallels, but which differ substantially from one another. Both see change in the Tickets Act, but I treat them separately. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the bill that proposes adjustments to the Election Act for voters outside the Netherlands. In abundance, I note that 50PLUS has always been a great supporter of increasing the possibilities, so that Dutch people living abroad can also vote in elections. In addition to the Dutch who are resident for their work or otherwise abroad, this also concerns many elderly people who leave for sunny places after work and for the sake of their health. The latter group is referred to as pensionados, but the real word is pensionistas; of which it is noted. Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Experimentation Act of June 2013, which created the possibility of sending a ballot to the potential voter abroad by email, expired on 1 January of this year. Under the current Election Act, ballots can only be sent by post. The reason for the experiment was in the time-consuming delivery of mail in many countries, so the voter did not have enough time to return his letter voice in time, thus losing votes. The results of the evaluation after three elections are positive. The sending by e-mail of ballots that the voter himself has to print out and send back to The Hague after filling in, turns out to be practically feasible. My group considers it very important that, in addition to the possibility of sending by e-mail, the choice for mailing also remains, because not all voters have an address or e-mail address. printer. I would ask the Minister to confirm that this guaranteed choice is fully maintained and that it could only expire after parliamentary approval. My group has a few more questions to the Minister regarding this bill. Since 2017, there has been a permanent registration, which means that registration is no longer necessary per election. That is a positive element, because it has considerably increased the number of registered voters. The voter who wishes to receive the ballot by post shall indicate this on the registry request. Is it true that once a given preference for post or post is given? mail can be changed later? And if so, how does the voter do that? Does the Minister expect this register to remain up-to-date? People move or change their mail account. Is this register linked to the Dutch population register, to prevent anyone returning to the Netherlands from receiving a ballot twice? Is there a maximum number for sending ballots to a given e-mail address? Partners sometimes share an e-mail address, but the explanatory memorandum mentions that multiple voters were registered in the same address, while this address belonged to a political party. How can this kind of abuse be prevented in the future? Mr. Chairman. This bill also amends the voting bill model. The most basic is the addition of logos, if any, and the fact that the electorate chooses twice: a choice for a party and a choice for a candidate number of that party. In the event that the electorate only colours the box of the lot, luckily that is no longer necessary with a red pencil, the vote shall be attributed to candidate number 1 on the list. Then a valid vote was cast. Here, however, there is a discrepancy with the other legislative proposal that we are discussing today. The issuing of a vote within the Netherlands in the voting booth requires not only the ticking of a party, but also the ticking of a candidate number of that party, otherwise an invalid vote will be cast. The legal validity of a voice from abroad is thus weighed differently from a vote in the Netherlands. That's very strange, isn't it? In the reply of 21 January, the Minister stated that this difference was not problematic because it was an experiment. It is only when the new ballot is finally introduced that the time has come to equalise the difference, according to the Minister. But that's gonna take at least another ten years. If it weren't for a problematic difference, you don't have to equalize this weighting of votes. In my view, the Minister's answer acknowledges that this discrepancy is indeed undesirable. 50PLUS therefore likes to hear from the Minister why, at a later date, a clear weighting of the validity of a vote, regardless of where it was issued, is important. For no one can deny that voting on a party or on a person is anything else. In conclusion, my group believes that the introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands will show that the results after the trial period are sufficient to justify the proposed amendment, both from a practical point of view of postal delivery and to facilitate voting by voters outside the Netherlands. However, adequate information is and remains necessary for the electorate. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the issue of the Temporary Experiment Law on new ballots. My group has now become somewhat hesitant about the word 'temporary' when it comes to legislative proposals, and we are not the only ones, Mr Van Hattem has already mentioned it. This proved to be the case last week in the treatment of the Temporary Law measures, but that aside. In the response of 21 January last, the benefits of the legislative proposal are re-examined and the Minister answers questions from various political groups. In summary, the reason for this legislative proposal is simplification of the ballot, in particular to facilitate the manual counting of votes. In the long term, electronic counting will be used. When this law is passed, two models of the ballot can be experimented with. Model 2 contains the party names with their possible logos and candidate numbers, instead of the names of the candidates, which are on a separate list. Model 1 requires a completely different system. The electorate then takes a ballot from his party, on which only the candidates of that party stand. Mr. Chairman. Do I understand correctly that the government has a preference for model 2 for the time being? Does this mean that if positive results are achieved, that is not experimenting with model 1? For the minister says in the reply: "This law merely provides the basis but does not mean an obligation to experiment with model 1." My group still does not understand, even after answering the SP questions, why there should be a legal basis for model 1. I would like to see a clearer explanation of this than "we also want to be able to test model 1." Back to model 2. The list of candidate numbers is visible in the voting booth, so that the voter does not have to remember his candidate's number. What are the consequences of this? Does the voter need more time in the voting booth? How do you prevent the lists from being scratched? How large will the format of such a list be and the candidate names and numbers will remain easily readable for everyone? Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that it is crucial to use diversity in the pilot municipalities, not only municipalities with highly educated people, but also municipalities with many low-skilled people, so that you get a representative picture of the experiment? Very generic one could say that Dutch people living abroad are generally sufficiently literate and digitally skilled, so the results shown so far are perhaps too favourable. Mr. Chairman. However, my group welcomes the fact that when designing the ballot, the various interest groups have been properly listened to, thus improving the legibility and recognition of parties and taking greater account of, among others, the blind voters. Mr President, I will conclude. If, apart from a smaller size of the ballot, the Minister wishes to make such a change to the Tickets Act, my group wonders what she thinks about changes of principle in our electoral system, such as party votes. In fact, this is made possible in the legislative proposal for voters outside the Netherlands. The average citizen almost always initially chooses a party that matches his or her ideas and then by ticking a person on that list is cast his or her vote. More and more disappointment occurs when such an elected member of a party steps out of a party group, with the participation of the seat. This often evokes annoyance, irritation and incomprehension in society. I would like to hear the views of my group from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS looks forward to answering the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Mr Kox has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to be in this room for the first time. It feels a bit like a maiden speech, but there may be an interruption, then is the rule. Mr. Chairman. Soon it will be 100 years since for the first time men and women were allowed to vote for the House of Representatives. That may be called the beginning of our modern democracy. July 5, 1922 it was. With a turnout of 91,45%, it became clear that it met a democratic need. Men and women wanted to make their voices heard. At a time when democracy is becoming more and more a thought than a given and it is not by a long shot that everyone wants to hear his or her voice, at least not through the ballot paper, it is important to find out how best to fill in our democracy and thus our elections. There are two legislative proposals ahead of us today. One concerns the final introduction of the new ballot for voters abroad; the other is a temporary experimental law on new ballots in the Netherlands. With the first proposal, we will be ready quickly: my group agrees with that proposal and therefore we support it. Could you do better? Probably. Is it okay? Yeah, and it's our job to judge that here. My group has problems with the second proposal in such a way that it would not be approved for the time being. I'll explain why. The idea that elections should be made more accessible by simplifying the ballot is, of course, a step in the right direction and a good start as far as the SP Group is concerned. If elections are the celebration of democracy, the ballot is an important instrument for making party music sound good. So it is important that a voter with a ballot can not only show all the sounds he or she wants to make, but that the instrument is also easy enough to play. This is not entirely the case with the current ballot, the government believes. I agree with Mr Van der Linden. You hear a lot on the street, but that people say "with that ballot it's been watched for me" and that's why they don't participate, I've never heard it. And I've been going down the street for a long time, I'll tell you what. We do know that it was quite a piece of work at the last election, and it was very small pennies. If you can do better, there's nothing wrong with that. The precise counting of these big rags is not so easy, although I have seen even bigger rags in many elections abroad, because three, four or five elections were held together. So it's not that bad. But it is good that we are thinking about how best to shape the ballot, for example for those people who are not so easy to read from paper. We here often don't notice that among ourselves, but there are a lot of people who can do anything, but they don't read the very best. So anything we can do to improve their participation in the elections should certainly not be left out. Especially since the representation of what then is called 'low-lettered' is always important to my father. Can the government explain again why we are not going to impose logos on the ballot papers? When I was the first time in South Africa to observe an election in the early 1990s, they were already on it. They had quite a lot of low-lying people there, I'll say. That worked very well and the logos didn't go off after that either. So why don't we just make that mandatory? We're also saying there's got to be a name on top of it, right? Mr. Chairman. With more filling in, you don't make voices any less complicated. If we say yes today to the temporary experimental law, every voter voting from the Netherlands must now declare his or her vote not once, but twice: for the party of the choice and for the person preferred by that party. This is not the case for the legislative proposal on the final introduction of the ballot for voters from outside the Netherlands. At the request of the House of Representatives, that proposal includes that anyone who indicates only the choice of the party and not the choice of the person on top of that has cast a valid vote. That seems reasonable to me: very clear and very good. For our group, therefore, it is illogical, impure and actually unacceptable that a voter outside the Netherlands should, if he so wishes, give a valid vote by ticking only the party and not a voter who does the same in the Netherlands. A reasonable explanation from the government still lacks my group. In this way, the government is currently depriving my group of the opportunity to vote in favour of this law. Legal inequality when casting a vote goes a long way. Does the Minister see any possibility of taking away this absurdity? Mr. Chairman. In addition to this objection in principle to the unequal treatment of voters, our group has a more practical objection to the inclusion of two possible voting procedures in the Temporary Experimentation Act, especially since the voting per party with a separate ballot is not really sufficiently thought-out. That's not what I'm saying; that's what the Minister himself says. There's still a lot to talk about. I do not think it is a good piece of legislation to put something like that into a law. Something might be a good idea, but then you don't put it in a law. You don't put anything in a law until you're convinced that's how it's gonna work. Is it right for the government to say whether we are going to apply this second method, we are going to make up our own minds; Parliament has nothing more to say about that? Here, too, the question to the Minister as to whether there is anything left to do about it. I would also like to make a more general point. As I said, this is not the most burning issue. Brandender is the question of how to ensure that people have greater confidence in the democratic process, participate in elections, understand what they are doing and not say in a poll day after the elections: I do not have faith in the government or in the municipal administration. There's something fundamentally wrong. I have a bit of a feeling that we are all working on this kind of important but not very big things and that the big discussion about how we protect our democracy is constantly being postponed. On the initiative of this Chamber, a state committee has been set up. He has spoken very wisely. We do not agree on all the proposals, but together we agree that this has given the debate a good basis. But, yeah, it's a bit of a glitch there. I think the Minister should tell us something about that too. When are we really going to have this big debate and make real changes to our electoral system? There is a great need for that. One last comment before Mr Otten may have one more comment. It's about the situation with the House Act. It really cannot be called the "legislative economy." The man or woman who invents such a term "It will certainly have been a man "It should actually be a light corporal punishment." It really doesn't look like you're using a law on democracy as a trash can for something else you should have done, but you forgot to put in it. One of the speakers said that we have a big problem if we agree to this law. You might as well say, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, But I find that very painful. Perhaps the Minister, although it is not her fault, can say something about it, because it is her responsibility. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u33	Thank you. I thought in this rule of law, which you were always talking about, we didn't have any corporal punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u34	That's an experimental test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u35	I am sure the Council of Europe knows that we have no corporal punishment. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u36	We fully agree with that aspect of the Housing Act. Of course, that's not part of this bill at all. I fully agree with Mr Kox. Like Mr Kox, we are also very much in favour of structural reforms of the electoral system. You've given yourself some openings for that, too. Could Mr Kox perhaps briefly, in the context of this debate, it is not entirely the main issue of what lines of reform of the electoral system the SP is thinking of? I would like to hear that from Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u37	Thank you very much for that question, Mr Otten. Of course, I'm not here to tell you how to do that, but in my head, for example, is the following. I'm not much of an expert in that field. I can see such a screen that the Service Report is there. Then you go into a voting booth and then it says: nice that you come to vote; on which party do you want to vote? Then puppet the parties. Then you have to touch that. Then it says: 'Thank you for voting for D66; which candidate of D66 do you want to vote for?' Then there'll be names and then you'll have to press. Then it says: Boris Dittrich of D66; do you agree? Then you say "yes" and then print that device out an A4 where it says so. Then you fold it up and throw it in a ballot box. I come to a lot of elections and things like that happen. That's how I'd see it. I thought: then all the problems are solved, then there are no more contradictions; it can happen everywhere. Of course, that's too simple a thought, but that's how I'd do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u38	That's extremely interesting. Mr Kox and also Mr Van Rooijen and a few others have been on election observation abroad. It is also our advice to just see where it works and not always try to invent the wheel yourself, because these are of course good ideas that we hear here from Mr Kox. Our appeal to everyone is to involve abroad more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u39	If I may add one comment, Mr President? After we voted electronically once, there were serious problems. We weren't supposed to do that. This device cannot be hacked, because you will immediately see what you voted for. If you're gonna use that device to do this first, you're gonna be more comfortable with that later, once those problems are solved. But now in ten years we're going to solve a problem with a paper ballot with another paper ballot. I can't look into the future, but I think that in 2030 the final bill that will be presented will not be by me, because then I will long be away from our successors with some laugh, because in a paperless society you will do something like this. My idea would be to ask the Minister: are there more creative answers to come up with than this bill? As I have said, I do not think it is sensible to say 'yes' to the legislative proposal as it stands for reasons of principle and practicality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u41	I thought Mr Koole was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u42	Yes, not after I have given the floor to Mr Koole, who will speak on behalf of the PvdA Group. I wasn't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about two legislative proposals: the Temporary Experiment Act new ballots and the legislative proposal on the final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands. My contribution, which I am making today on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but certainly also on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, focuses in particular on the first, the legislative proposal on experiments with new ballots. In a democracy, free and fair elections are of the utmost importance for the proper functioning of that democracy. Exactly how they are organised can be different. We've been over this for a while. One electoral system is not the other. We may soon be able to talk about a change in ours. A first question to the government: why not wait until the legislative proposals before us now can be put in conjunction with parliamentary debate, at the same time as all the other amendments relating to the organisation of elections? However different electoral systems may be, it must be clear to the electorate how he or she should vote if the vote is to be valid. The voter must also be able to do so. The proposal for the Temporary Experiment Act aims to create a legal basis for experimenting in the polling room with smaller ballots, which therefore have a more convenient format. The aim is, according to the government, that the ballot is better handled and better read for voters. Can the government explain once again what the problems for voters are with the current ballot? What is not going well so that people want to enter into this experiment? Another reason for introducing the ballot is the possibility that new ballots can be counted better, thereby promoting the feasibility and quality of the counting. Again the question: what goes wrong with the current form of the ballot so far? Does the government agree with the members of the political groups of PvdA and GroenLinks that the handling of the ballot is a more important consideration for voters than the handling of the polling station counters? Mr. Chairman. In response to questions from our group, the government has said that model 2 of the two voting models mentioned in the bill will be the first to be tested. If the experiments with model 2 were successful, the experimenting with model 1 would be abandoned. Now the precise operation of each model is still pre-mounted in an AMvB in both Rooms. That's good. But the present bill lays the foundations for this. That's why we're talking about it today. In model 2, the voter gives on a small ballot, one A4' I think, first of all which is the party of his or her preference and then who is his or her candidate of preference. The last action is done by coloring the box of the candidate's number red, or another colour. The voter colors a red box twice before releasing one vote. The voter, who wants to check the voting booth to be sure which song belongs to the preferred candidate, should be able to do so in the voting booth. At home he already had the opportunity to do so, but I can imagine that the voter would like to check again in the voting booth in order to carry out such an important task as the release of a voice. And perhaps the voter in the voting booth only arrives at a final choice for a particular candidate. How does the government see that? Are the walls of the voting booth covered with an overview of the size of a tablecloth and can the voter then easily read it there? How does the government assess the interpretation of some of the candidates? This interpretation has already been mentioned here a few times today, which by coloring the candidate's number, while the candidate's name is no longer on the ballot, would there be a model that turns politicians into numbers? Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, model 2 requires a red box to be colored twice for the release of one voice. Why does the government choose the strict model that when only the box of a party is coloured, but not that of the candidate, the vote is invalid? That vote could also be added to number one on the list, as was the case with the ballots for voters outside the Netherlands and will continue to apply as a result of the Leijten amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u44	Does Mr Koole of the PvdA think it is important that voters know who they are going to vote for and that the names of the candidates are also clear? So they don't vote for a song, they vote for a human being, for a person who represents their interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u45	Yeah, I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u46	Can Mr Koole state whether he considers it acceptable to experiment with a model where this is no longer the case? There is a number instead of a name, a person, which is clearly displayed à la carte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u47	Also on the current ballots are all kinds of names and numbers, such as the number one on the list and the number three on the list. These are only being pulled apart now. I also said in my speech that it must be absolutely clear. In the voting booth you must see that Mrs Jansen belongs to number twelve of that party. You should be able to check that out. If you're sure, you'll color the box red at number 12. The voter must therefore always be aware of who belongs to which song. That combination must be clear in that voting booth. Hence my question about the tablecloth: how exactly are you going to do that? Voters vote for candidates. They do so by means of the technique of a ballot. For me it is important whether this experiment really matters whether it is possible to do it this way, without politicians turning into songs, which would make things go wrong. I am open to that experiment, because I think voters can really see it, like: "I see Mrs Jansen at number twelve of party x. First I go party x red and then Mrs Jansen at number twelve. I'll check it out. Then I go out of my voting booth and put the ballot in the ballot box." If the experiment should show that this does not work, then that should also be the conclusion and then you should never introduce it definitively. I fully agree with Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u48	But the point I just raised was the main concern of Mr Koole's party colleague in the House of Representatives, Mrs Arib. She said: "This reduces the candidates to numbers. People should be able to vote for a person and not a number." She also said: "We have to be very careful about this and not experiment with it." What makes it possible in this Chamber, then, for Mr Koole to come to the conclusion that this can suddenly be experimented with and that, with this system, candidates can suddenly be reduced to numbers in such a test set-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u49	We speak in this Chamber on the basis of our own responsibility as a Chamber. I make a contribution on behalf of my group, and in this case also on behalf of GroenLinks, in which I also put this question to you. The evaluation will have to take into account whether the experiment shows that people would no longer think in terms of people when voting, but in terms of numbers. This has already been promised in the written reply. I think you should at least be open to that experiment. I'm very opposed to candidates being reduced to numbers. I agree with Mrs Arib. I just want to be able to determine it on the basis of a solid experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u50	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u51	We are talking about the bill and the principles that have also been put forward in the House of Representatives. Mrs Arib made it very clear and firm that people should not be reduced to songs, that you should watch out in such an experiment and that they should not be experimented with in this variant. I couldn't agree more. The same variant is still on the table. Can Mr Koole make it clear why he comes to the autonomous conclusion that experimenting with this would suddenly be acceptable? Can he justify the grounds for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u52	We make our own decision in this Chamber. That's what we do with all the legislative proposals. Hopefully the PVV will do the same to the party members in the other Chamber. That's the first thing. Secondly, I keep saying that this experimental law must be carefully shaped. If, in the end, the fear that people or candidates will be reduced to numbers, including in the electorate's heads, and that you will be able to determine this in a research set-up or evaluation, then you should not go through with it. Now it's supposed to be a lot. We want to give the opportunity to find out through experiments. If a number of conditions are met, which I have yet to discuss, I would say that you should give the opportunity to enter into this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u53	I am curious to see how Mr Koole sees it being evaluated how this works in the electorate's head. I think there's an experimental form for this. It's part of this law. Then his names were removed. It's got balls and numbers on it. In fact, the names are already gone and there are balls. How does he see that after that experiment is evaluated or names reduced to balls? On the new form, isn't that just the way it is? That's not a question of evaluation, is it? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u54	Of course, I'm not talking about a poll. I'm talking about serious investigation. I assume that is what is happening in the evaluation. The names aren't gone. They must be visible to the voters in the voting booth. They're not on the ballot, but they have to be able to put them about side by side. They must be visible. I'm assuming that's gonna work. If that's the case, maybe you can continue on that road. If you carefully shape the evaluation study, you can test it in a variety of ways and compare it with elections where not this form is used, but the regular ballot. You can ask questions about the candidates' knowledge. You can do that in all kinds of ways. That must be done seriously. If that actually shows that voters don't think they're voting for people anymore, but on numbers, then we really have a problem. Then you shouldn't continue this experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u55	Does Mr Koole really think that it is possible to actually prove that after this experiment? If 2% less candidates are voted on in a municipality other than the list leader, does that show that people are reduced to a number? Isn't it very difficult to prove that for this experimenter note afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u56	Yeah, but you can ask about that, with a serious survey list. That's a little bit more than just a scoop or a scoop, as was just said. You can seriously ask about that. I'm a social scientist. If that's a serious investigation, I take it seriously, too. I'll look into the design of that investigation. If that's a serious investigation that leads in a clear direction, I'll take it. If that is the direction in which we should, above all, not go through with this because people no longer know that they are voting for people, then we should not do so. If that goes the other way, it could be a reason to say: we have to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u57	I hadn't thought of it like Mr Van Hattem, who actually says that this is an evil D66 bill that aims to give Amsterdammers a privilege. But you can always learn. I don't think the intention of the bill is to reduce candidates to numbers. I don't see any such malice. I do have another question for Mr Koole. Experimenting with your voice is quite a challenge. It's not a test. You're really casting a voice. Doesn't he see with me the problem that your vote becomes invalid if you only make the choice for a party but not for a candidate? That's a pretty hard price to pay for this experiment, while the solution in the other bill is already given: you're supposed to do it, but if you don't, it doesn't make your vote invalid. In the covid time we have also seen that we can handle new things generously. So could I ask Mr Koole whether he also thinks that this should be a condition? You can try it best in this experiment, you can also encourage it, but if someone doesn't do it and just keeps doing what they've always done, which is to color one ball, that voice shouldn't become invalid. Otherwise we will really get legal inequality when you cast your vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u58	I shall go back to that in my text, so if Mr Kox would like to wait until I have said something about it, he can see if he wants to repeat his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u59	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u60	As mentioned above, model 2 requires a red box to be colored twice for the release of a voice. Why does the government choose the strict model, where the vote is invalid if only the box for the party is coloured but not the box for the candidate? That vote could also be added to the number 1 on that list, as was the case in the case of the Leijten amendment, which continues to apply to voters outside the Netherlands. Moreover, we may soon be faced with a change in the direction of a so-called civil forum system. It's been mentioned for a while. Under this system, the electorate must choose: either a vote on the list or a vote on the candidate. In addition, the double red colour of a box gives an invalid voice, exactly the opposite of the strict model 2 that is before us today. Isn't this an additional reason to consider the red colour of the lot only as a valid voice in model 2? I'll ask the Minister. In answering our questions, the government says that if a disproportionate number of invalid votes were to be cast in one or more experimental municipalities, it would be 'imaginable', between quotes, that the temporary experimental law would no longer apply to a re-vote. When, according to the government, is there a disproportionate number of invalid votes? And who decides that this is the case? When will the first experiments take place in certain municipalities? When has there been sufficient experiment with model 2? If Model 2 is not successful, is there still sufficient time within the framework of this legislative proposal to start experimenting on model 1, where a voter first takes the specific vote of his or her party of preference and then indicates which candidate has his or her preference? Will the AMvB in which model 1 is worked out only be hung in both chambers after completion of the experiments on the basis of model 2? Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal provides for an evaluation of the scheme as it has just been mentioned, for which the criteria are included in the AMvB. The main criteria have already been outlined by the government in response to questions from our and other political groups, for which I am grateful. Can the government promise that the views and experiences of organisations that stand up for the interests of people with disabilities will also be taken into account in the evaluation? The evaluation is likely to be carried out partly by an external agency, but under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Why not all the way through one or more external agencies? And what exactly is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior for these external investigations? Mr. Chairman. Finally. The members of the political groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks are pleased that the government regrets that the bill on a new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands includes a repair clause for the Housing Act. It's been discussed. That is sad and it has taken place in the answer to questions. The government now calls this improper behaviour 'not chic' itself. The government says it is still committed to the collectible legislation note that was shared with this Chamber in 2011, and I also assume the Hoekstra motion mentioned earlier. Can the Government indicate how the legislative error in the Housing Act should have been dealt with according to that 2011 note? At least we can learn from it. We await the Government's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u61	Of course, we agree with that comment on the Housing Act. I have heard the word 'experiment' about 25 times in Mr Koole's contribution. Mr Koole believes that all the names should be in the voting booth on all the voting lists. I don't know how you want to do that practically. I think the voting booth should be three times that size. Adenauer won the election in the 1950s with the slogan "Keine Experimente." What are we gonna do about this? I don't need to be a social scientist to find out in a few years that this isn't gonna work. So why do you want to participate in such an experiment as PvdA and GroenLinks? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u62	The fact that I have mentioned the word "experiment" several times in my contribution and in my response to questions is obvious, of course, when it comes to an experimental law. I beg your pardon, I assume, through the chairman. That seems logical to me, because that is what we are talking about today. Mr Otten wonders how to do that with all those names in the voting booth. That is exactly the question I asked the Minister. I even used the word "tablecloth" because it is sometimes used for the large ballot that we now have to fill out. It's sometimes called a tablecloth, because it's so big. Is that tablecloth in the voting booth? How does the Minister see that? I just asked, so I'd like to wait for the Minister's answer. I have some concerns about that, too. I am open to the Minister's answers in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u63	I see only two solutions: or a very tiny font that no one can read, or a huge voice box. In either case, I don't need to be a social scientist to conclude that that's not gonna work. That's why I'd say don't start the experiment. That is our advice to the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u64	No. Mr Otten does not have to be a social scientist, but his answer also shows that he is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u65	I would like to return to a point raised by Mr Koole, just like others. That was about the fact that two booths would have to be filled in. His suggestion is that if you have ticked the party of your choice, that must be the point immediately. Now we have had a lot of discussion over the last few hours about novelles. That should not happen if you go into a very complicated process, or in fact change a law completely. But here Mr Koole has found a rather simple solution: let one cross be sufficient. We can put that to the Minister, but does Mr Koole mean by that: come up with a novelle and solve this one little problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u66	I have not yet used the word "novelle" in this case. I told the Minister to look at the differences with other laws. See also the forthcoming legislative proposal on the civil forum system, where things are still different. I assume that's coming. Is it imaginable that you're pulling one line there after all? I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that. I would also like to hear the reason why she has not drawn a single line so far. Only then can you say: ideally that is desirable, but not for the period of the experimental law. I am really waiting for the Minister's answer before I would like to draw final conclusions towards a novella.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u67	I am not yet ready to draw that conclusion, but we noticed in an earlier debate, a few weeks ago, that precisely by avoiding the timely indication of what the route is, it is only after the second deadline. That is why I am now putting the question to Mr Koole. I understand that he says: I don't want to suggest it yet, but it would be a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u68	I find the thought that you're not trying to draw one line, especially if it were to be final, very undesirable. The question to the Minister is: why doesn't she draw that line? Is that for the duration of the experiment law? Still, you might ask yourself: wouldn't it have been better to bring that into line in the experiment law as well? That was my question and I would like to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u69	I hear Mr Koole very emphatically say that PvdA and GroenLinks are in favour of such an experiment. At the same time, he asks a number of critical questions to the Minister. Could Mr Koole perhaps indicate what minimum requirements for such an experiment should now be on the table in order to vote in favour of this bill if necessary? And in what cases might you still be against it? Or is it clear in advance, and Mr Koole says: we are going, anyway, for this experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u70	No, we await the Minister's reply. It determines how we will vote in the end. We have not yet taken a final position on this. I did stress, however, that in order to find something out, you have to do tests first. They're done, too. Then you have to do it again carefully in order to find out if a particular proposal works. That's just the way things are going. I'm very much in favour of the idea of an experiment. That doesn't mean that's all, but I'm against the idea of rejecting an experiment right away. It has to be done carefully. I would also like to hear from the Minister under what conditions that can be done well and in what order. If the experiment with model 2 goes well, then the experiment with model 1 no longer needs to be done. In addition, the more specific and detailed interpretation of the general measures of governance, which are still to be found in this Chamber, comes into play.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u71	I understand that Mr Koole is waiting for the answer, but my question was: what are the minimum requirements for PvdA and GroenLinks regarding the experiment? It has just been said that the vote on the party and the vote on the candidate who may lead to invalidity is an undesirable factor. Is that, for example, a game breaker with regard to the continuation of the experiment? This is something that is very important, especially in the voting process and certainly with regard to the confidence of the electorate in the process. How does Mr Koole view the secret of voting, which can become problematic in these experiments? Are these minimum requirements for Mr Koole to be met in order to support such an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u72	I have already made a comment about the invalidity. That is a very important point. If there is suddenly a disproportionate number of invalid votes in an experimental community, whereas that is not the case in the municipalities where ordinary ballots are used, then that may be a reason to request a recount. This must no longer be done under the conditions of the experiment, but simply in the classical way. That's already a guarantee. If you really suspect it's not going well, then it should be able to be restored. You have to be open to the experiment, but then my question is, who decides if it's disproportionate? Is that the president of a polling station? Is that the Minister? Is that the Choosing Council? Who does that? If it has been established that it is happening, it could lead to a re-vote based on the old classic ballot. This has already been promised in the written reply. So that is indeed a condition that is required. There's more than one way to think about it. The second condition Mr. Van Hattem mentioned, I've lost it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u73	Voice secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u74	Voice secret. Yeah, absolutely. That must be absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u75	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u76	Now I hear an interesting approach. This experiment is being conducted in real reclassification elections, in real municipalities. Real voters go to real ballot boxes. The real votes can, on the basis of this law, really be declared invalid. There may be a recount, but if this legal basis is used to establish invalidity, then we will get a composition of the city council that the voter had not actually intended. That's just because of this experiment. That's going to affect the democratic process in that congregation for at least four years. How does Mr Koole come to say so easily that a recount will be carried out? You can't do that. It is not an experiment in which people just do it for fun, but for real elections. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u77	Your question is clear. Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u78	I repeat: at every election, something happens that the Election Board has to look at and sometimes there is a recount. If there is a suspicion in an experimental community that the use of the new ballot has resulted in an enormous amount of invalid votes, someone must determine whether that is the case and then it should be possible to fix it by means of a re-tuning according to the classic model.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u79	Mr Koole did what he promised: to answer the questions I asked earlier. However, for the sake of clarity, I would like to make the following points. I agree with Mr Koole that if it turns out that something has gone completely different from what was intended, there must be consequences. More fundamentally, it is that if you are going to use elections as an experiment I think that goes a long way, because that is the most basic right you have as citizens, it should never be so, I would think, that you will get less rights and be placed in a more difficult position than another. Even if only one person makes a mistake, who simply wanted to vote, but did not meet the additional requirement and therefore his or her vote is declared invalid. I don't think that's really possible, because then you'll be a victim of the experiment. I don't see how things are gonna get out of hand. The Minister explained in the reply that the differences are not so great, as far as we can see. But more fundamentally, because of the experiment, you cannot put one voter in a worse position than the other. That is why the question is relevant: what if the Minister is unable to find a solution in the event that the second vote has not been cast, the second ball is not coloured, which makes the vote invalid? For my group, therefore, this is really very difficult, even if it is only for 1, for 10 or for 100 voters. That should not be allowed, because then a voter becomes a victim of an experiment and that can never be the intention. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u80	Mr Kox says never experiment with elections. Just because of the care in the possible introduction of a new ballot, you want to test it before you apply it fully, first through tests and now with the possibility, if this law is passed, of doing so in experimental municipalities. I find that a careful process in itself, provided that the conditions under which it happens are right. In that sense, I find an experiment and careful elections not necessarily contradictory. What if there's a voter from the experiment who votes invalid? I think it's very difficult to establish exactly that. I asked a question about that. If it is obvious that this is the case in experimental communities, you have to intervene. It is also happening now, of course, but repeatedly to the Election Council that voters make mistakes, including with the current ballot. There have been times when people used the wrong color, making the voice invalid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u81	We're not looking at D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u82	No, I'm not looking at D66. Things are also happening in the current ballots. It has sometimes happened abroad that the list of names was so long that there was a row of 40 and the second of 40 next to it, directly next to it. So number 41 got about as many votes as number 1 because they were side by side. It has also happened that folded and the first name under the fold...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr. Koole, given the time, I'm making the friendly request, to the questioner and the answerer, to keep it somewhat concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u84	I just wanted to say that there are always occasional mistakes, but that if there is a reasonable suspicion that the experiment leads to this kind of disproportionate number of invalid votes, there is a need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u85	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u86	Thanks for the answer to the non-asked question. I didn't tell you not to experiment. That's a choice. The question was whether, at the time that elections are used as an experiment, the electorate may suffer harm, any individual voter. I do not think that can be done, but that is contrary to the Constitution. The recovery is easy if the minister says: we take the same methodology as the other law. I think that is a matter of principle. So it is not about the experiment, but about the fundamental question of whether it is permissible to become a victim of an experiment as a voter. I don't think that could have been the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u87	A brief answer, Mr Koole, and then we continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u88	No, that's not admissible. And no, it doesn't have the impact force of an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u89	Clear. The time has come for me to give the floor to Mr Dittrich, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot is being said about the fragmentation in politics. In the Lower House there are already twenty groups active and in the Upper Chamber there are sixteen, so I counted on the website. One of the consequences of this fragmentation is the size of the ballot. We read that the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of March 2021 showed that the ballot was really very large. Some voters have complained about that. The Election Council has made comments on this and municipalities have also complained. This applies, for example, to the Association of Dutch Municipalities. The OSCE also commented on the ballot in the Netherlands. In recent years, the State Committee on Parliament's system, the Remkes Committee, has looked at and made comments on, among other things, the ballot. It is not only difficult to vote, but it is also difficult to count the votes because of the size of the ballot. That is why D66 supports the government in seeking a solution. The government offers us two models and has said that it has a strong preference for the second model. That is what my comments focus on. The first question I have is, aren't we looking for a five-legged sheep? The model shows a smaller ballot. The logos of the parties are printed in colour. This is good news for the low-literate and visually impaired. But the voter now has to tick two booths: one for the party and the bottom, on the same note, a booth for a number. This has already been discussed in the debate. I would like to invite the Minister once again to respond to D66's concern that political candidates will be made a number. They are, as it were, anonymized. The government says in the documents: as a tool we offer that elsewhere, for example in the voting booth, the names of the candidates and their numbers are shown, so that the voter can easily look up the name at the number. But the question is, of course, how has that been tested and with whom? Is that also tested with people who don't have such great potential? And does it work in practice as the government sketches? Isn't there a lot to ask voters to compare the list of numbers with the electoral list on which the names are? In addition, the ballot is invalid if the voter only colors one booth. This has already been discussed in this debate. The voter must tick the party and a candidate's number. We see that this means that there is a great chance that a considerable number of invalid votes will be cast. How does the government see that? Does the Minister wish to reflect on this in this debate? The Dutch voters voting from abroad get a slightly different treatment. If they only tick one box on the ballot note, that of the party, that vote will be attributed to the list leader. That seems to me to be a very practical solution. As a seventh speaker, I do not have such an original question, but I wonder why we cannot use that system for the ballot from model 2. Can the Minister explain in detail why this is not possible? Can the Minister outline the main lines of the information? What do voters get sent home for the election? How's it going with people who want to give a power of attorney to someone else? Is that system going to remain the way it is now, or is it going to be dealt with separately in public sector information? It has been said before: this is an experimental law. The government would like to try out the new banknote in four or five municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants. The documents state that efforts are being made to start this process in the November 2022 reclassification elections. The D66 Group trusts that these elections will be thoroughly evaluated and that the results of the evaluation will also be shared with the First Chamber. However, we are curious to see what is measured as to whether the new ballot is preferable to the current one. What happens if a lot of invalid votes have been cast, because only one box has been ticked? Then what weighs more on the Minister and who decides? What is the role of the Second and First Chambers in the evaluation to reflect their position on this issue? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to conclude by quoting William Blake, and not Konrad Adenauer. William Blake said, "The true method of gaining knowledge is the experiment."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u91	And that concludes your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u92	I will conclude with that, but I would just like to say that, as far as D66 is concerned, the inclusion of a regulation on the Housing Act in this legislative proposal should not have been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u93	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u94	I hear Mr Dittrich making very justified criticisms of the proposal and clearly identifying the risks. I think we are in complete agreement on these points. However, the consideration that I hear D66 make now, such as "we can do this as an experiment in five reclassification municipalities," is surprising. Because if there are such big risks, you shouldn't be imposing this on real elections to real city councils, should you? What are we gonna do if this goes wrong? Mr Koole said earlier that we might be able to hold new elections on the basis of the old system, but this law does not provide for that at all. So how can Mr Dittrich of D66 indicate that this is an acceptable experiment in these municipalities, when these municipalities will probably be sitting with the fried pears if it turns out that there are a lot of invalid votes or if the other risks that Mr Dittrich himself presents are going to arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u95	We point out that the size of the ballot paper, the term "tablecloth' has already been mentioned, leads to discontent and to the advice of doing it differently. How can you do this other than by starting an experiment? That experiment must, of course, be carefully prepared, and that must also be properly evaluated. If the experiment shows that it didn't go well, then we should all be able to say: well, then we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u96	Yes, but that municipality already has the unsatisfactory outcome of this experiment and thus for four years with a city council that may have been put together differently than the electorate intended. The democratic process has thus already been confused. The second point is: is it therefore limited to these reclassification elections? It may also be the case that, at the next elections, this will be the next elections for Provincial States and thus for this Chamber, the First Chamber, because it has been said that we are going to use different models.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u97	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u98	So does Mr Dittrich consider it acceptable that such an experiment could also be used for such far-reaching elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u99	The Second and First Chambers will be informed of this by means of a pending procedure. Then we can ring the bell and say, "No, we don't want to" if we don't think that that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u100	So we'll see about that. I'm gonna stop now, otherwise we're gonna walk out and there's gonna be another minister waiting. Mr. Otten, do you have another important question? A short one?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u101	Yes, very briefly. Why not do an experiment first with a focus group or something like that, without doing that straight away reallife with the voter? I think that would be enough to show that this is not going to work. Then you're not gonna involve democracy in an experiment, are you? Then make thorough preparations with a representative group of voters and research that, like companies, do market research when they introduce new products. Soon they will come to conclusions about what works and what doesn't. That would be our advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u102	That's an advice, but not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u103	Mr Otten's opinion is very clear. I myself asked the Minister how this was achieved. The question is therefore: has there perhaps been a focus group; how did this experiment come about? I would like to hear the Minister's reply and I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u104	Thank you. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u105	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is the only country in the world where we put our voices in a black waste container during the elections. This is symbolic of the way in which elections are organised in this country. Why don't you put your ballot note in a clique? Almost everywhere in the world we have transparent, transparent ballot boxes, so that everyone can see what happens to their voices and what is present in the ballot box. In many countries the counting and addition of votes also takes place in the open. Transparency is essential in elections. Not for nothing are many of our First Chamber members often going to observe during elections abroad. Today we are debating a new ballot because the current ballot is so difficult for the voters. That seems to be the most important argument for this experiment. Here again we see the same basic attitude towards the organisation of elections that we also see in other areas: not the importance of the electorate to be able to cast his voice properly and carefully on the party and the person of his or her preference is central, but the ease of the vote counter is the deciding factor. This bill therefore fits flawlessly into the current government thinking, in which the Dutch citizen is only a final piece of an official powerpoint presentation or an Excelsheet of the Tax Administration and in which the citizen simply has to behave according to the government's plans and should not be too difficult. Unfortunately, this piece of legislation is yet another example of this. The influence of the party summit of political parties on the composition of the electoral lists is already excessive in the Netherlands. This leads most parties to a huge unitary sausage of interchangeable types and followful job hunters on the electoral lists: an important and fundamental cause of falling confidence in Dutch politics. The link between the electorate and the elected is already thin in the Netherlands, but with this newly proposed ballot that gap gets even bigger and decreases that band even further. On the new ballot the voter can no longer vote on a person, i.e. on a name, but must fill out a number, as a kind of lotto form where one wants to fill out the winning numbers. Mr. Chairman. I've done some research on this. That would mean that we would refer Mr Van der Linden here to list 13, number 8, Mr Doornhof as list 2, number 9, Mr Koole as list 6, number 5 and you, President, as list 1, number 2. The People's Assembly as a number: we should not want that. A new horde for the millions of low-skilled and lower-educated people who in the Netherlands often have a lower turnout rate in elections. But also a new complicated system for the elderly. With the letter vote last year, we also saw that this was not easy for everyone to understand and caused confusion. We expect much more confusion with this numbering system. They also want to experiment with a system in which you have to get a party card of the party on which you want to vote from a rack at the polling station. Suppose the purely hypothetical case that the box with the VVD ballots becomes empty during the next election. So you have to go to the polling station as a VVD tuner and yell, "Hey, we're out of VVD notes, can you fill them up? A lot of people will think, "Forget it, I'll vote something else." Voting secrecy is not guaranteed in this way. So this bill is not a good idea. It makes candidates on the election lists anonymous numbers. Ideal therefore for the party top that compiles the lists. The numbers that are being elected can now be more effective than they already are, while the Constitution requires that representatives of the people should vote without burden. So it shouldn't be, and this bill that came to the close of the House of Representatives would have to be rejected in this House of Representatives, just as we did last week with the disproportionate Temporary Law Covid-19. But how are we supposed to do that? There are great ways to improve the bond between the voter and the chosen one. Look, for example, over the border, how one does that in Germany, with a system of two votes, the so-called Zweitstimme. The first vote goes to the candidate of your preference in your region and the second vote, the so-called Zweitstimme, to the party of your preference. If more people are elected than there are seats, this is solved with extra seats, the so-called Überhangmandate. This system would already be quite an improvement for the Netherlands compared to the existing electoral system, which means that large parts of the Netherlands, especially outside the Randstad, are poorly represented. An exception to this is Limburg, where people traditionally vote for Limburg candidates. President or list 1, number 2, I do not know what to call you with this new numbering system. Then we'll join the voters abroad. That is about one million people who are responsible for about 15 seats in the House of Representatives, a group of voters which, in my experience, is often closely following politics in the Netherlands. Someone who has been committed to the possibility of voting abroad for years is Eelco Keij of the Dutch Foundation for Foreign Affairs. Our group shares his view that e-voting should be made possible for foreign voters. In practice, there are very serious problems with sending the ballots abroad and then they still have to be returned. That's gonna slow down a lot. A lot of votes come in too late, so they don't count. Switzerland's a long way off with this. We therefore advise the Minister to light up her light to her Swiss colleagues, how they have all managed this operationally. Why should we always want to invent the wheel in the Netherlands, if that is already well arranged in other countries? In his speech, Mr Kox also gave a number of examples of how to do that. Mr. Chairman. You will notice that we are not very enthusiastic about this bill. We look forward to the discussion and response of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I now give the floor to Mr Meijer, list 1, number 8, Mr Otten, who was on the Forum for Democracy at the time, but we are still looking at which number.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. Let me just say that the VVD Group intends to vote in favour of both legislative proposals. Of course I will wait for the debate, but the debate so far has not changed my mind. I have few words on the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands, but still some questions and comments on the other proposal. The Temporary Experiment Law on new ballots addresses a problem which is felt by voters, visually impaired people and by the electoral counters. In the case of an oversized ballot, carelessness and errors lie ahead. Some of you have never noticed that there have been complaints, but I have many years of experience as president of the main polling station or the central polling station and in that position those complaints will reach you. It's not like we're doing something for the counters right now, but we're doing something to make a careful process possible. That starts with the voter who has to fill it out, including the partially sighted voter, and then it has to be counted carefully. That is the problem that needs to be addressed and then there is no priority for whom you come up with the solution. If we know that voters abroad have been working with a similar ballot for years and that there are certainly no fewer preferred votes, then that is no reason for us to abandon the experiment. There is a bit of caricature made here as if names become songs. I think we are trying to get a careful voting procedure with this tool and you can also see the names in the voting booth. If one thinks it can't be hung, it certainly can't be folded out, because there is no room for that. As far as we are concerned, there will be an experiment and all these supposed things that may not go well can be looked at. However, this requires clear criteria in the evaluation. I would ask the Minister to look carefully at what these criteria are. Before there's an interruption, maybe one more point. As an eighth speaker, I agree with the question as to what is the difference between the validity of votes in this experiment and those from abroad. I don't think that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u108	You're gonna end your contribution with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u109	I have one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u110	Finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u111	Finally, the point that has already been raised by others that legislative proposals on the electoral process are coming up fragmentedly. It has, of course, been dealt with as a whole in the Committee on Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Of course, some of us have already given some thought to this whole electoral process, but I am always from the school that the better is the enemy of the good. This is now a problem that we see. We're handling that now. I would like to ask the Minister how she is monitoring the coherence of all these fragmented proposals, so that we ultimately have a consistent system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Mr Van Hattem with a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u113	I hear Mr Meijer from the VVD making a number of assumptions, for example that the new experiment would lead to a more manageable situation, which would also be better for visually impaired people. But people still have to look up all the names on a separate list. So I wonder where Mr Meijer gets that assumption. Also the point that the experiment can now take place in municipalities with smaller numbers of inhabitants. Then how valid is this experiment? There will probably be fewer lists of fewer candidates there anyway. How can Mr Meijer assume that a valid experiment will take place here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u114	Obviously. Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u115	I asked the Minister to indicate the criteria for that evaluation as well. I think the supposed argument that it's going to be numbers and no names will pay off even with smaller numbers of candidates. As regards the size of the ballot and how it becomes visible in the booth, you might indeed be able to do less in this experiment with fewer lists, but I would like to await the Minister's answer on the criteria, which makes the experiment also valid for other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u116	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u117	With this we will create the legal basis. If such an experiment in those smaller municipalities clearly does not allow this to be used in that setting, then what is the point? Because if we don't have this clear, then we might as well say that we just don't do this. If you want it, at least come up with a decent proposal. How does Mr Meijer view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u118	Finally, Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u119	Those are your words. I think this is a carefully prepared proposal, which does not involve irresponsible experiments. It still has to prove itself in practice, but I think it will be marginal changes and not that the whole experiment will fail, because I do not think this experiment is so rigorous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u120	I have a question for Mr Meijer. This legislative project is starting to look hugely like a prestige project, such as: there are still some things that the First Chamber did not get through, then this should work. Can Mr Meijer explain to me what is the problem with this law? That has still not become clear to me, not even from Mr Meijer's contribution. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u121	I would like to distance myself from the word 'prestige project' if you will allow me, Mr President, and 'this has to go through' or something. I just got a bill. I read it. I also know from my own previous professional practice what the problems are in terms of the size of the ballot. This is difficult for voters as well as for people who are visually impaired and who have complained about it, and it is also complicated when counting. That's what we're trying to figure out. We do this very carefully in a small setting, in an experiment. I think that is well thought out and I would like to try to increase the care of the voting process with that experiment at least, which will make fewer mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u122	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u123	How does this help visually impaired people? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u124	In any case, that has become clear to me from the documents. Perhaps the Minister could comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u125	Thank you. Finally, Mr Schalk has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kox referred to his maiden speech. I looked it up: it was on 17 June 2003, so some time ago. But if this had been his maiden speech, I would of course have congratulated him now and also thanked him for the year 1922 he mentioned. That was the first year that the SGP was in the Lower House, as he undoubtedly knows. Mr. Chairman. This Chamber now has 16 different groups. The House of Representatives had twenty at the last count, we found. Not all of these parties will compete for the voter's favour in the next round, but even if they did, that in itself would not be a problem. It is a beautiful consequence of our democratic system, which is apparently accessible. It is also multicoloured and there is nothing against it in itself. In fact, let's cherish that. Apparently, the only problem now is the ballot. In an expanding number of parties and with the possibilities to participate with long rows of candidates, the ballot becomes a little more clumsy. That's why we're experimenting. The temporary experimental law wants to experiment with two models. Quite simply: the first is a ballot per party with the names of the candidates and the second is a ballot with all the parties and candidate numbers. The target? Easier, more accessible, safer and less susceptible to fraud. I'm just passing through these aspects. First of all, "simpler." The key principle of simplicity is that the number of steps of a process or the necessary procedures should be kept as limited as possible. After all, every additional step or procedure introduces a new opportunity to make mistakes. Moreover, the principle of simplicity applies not only to the end-user, in this case the electorate, but also to the whole of the voting process. Now the impression is that the bill mainly provides for experiments that emphasize simplicity for the voter. But that doesn't mean that the whole thing gets easier too, because in both experiments you're actually dealing with a kind of two-stage rocket. In version 1 you must first choose the ballot of your party and then tick the person of your choice. In addition, I have a question that I have not heard so far, more from climate and the environment. Let's say you have a city with 20,000 potential voters. How much paper is going to be wasted? After all, you must have enough notes for all parties. In version 2 you have to do with two votes, at least that's how it will be experienced: you first choose your party and then a number. This means that you also have to keep another document on hand with the candidates and their numbering. Isn't that even more complicated and problematic than a ballot washed out of thin air? Many parties have already denounced it here. My question to the Minister is whether she does not regard the situation in which you have to tick twice as a problem either. It has now been called "wrapped." It has been warned that many votes can become invalid. There has even been talk of equality of law, a very heavy word, in relation to foreign affairs. That is why, during an interrupting debate with Mr Koole, I suggested that this is typically something you can solve with a novelle. It will also save us a second time if we conclude that in the first term. In any case, I have the question of how the Minister looks at this. The second point is accessibility. The problem is that the new ballots in one way or another place more emphasis on party voting than on popular representatives. At the first ballot, the voter even makes a first choice on his way to voting. But I ask the government: what if that voter gets a wrong bill out of the shelf? Or what happens if the name he's looking for isn't on the relevant note? In other words, what if the voter just makes a mistake? Can that be fixed? In principle, the government wants to start experimenting with model 2. In response to our questions, the Minister states that model 2 is also about voting candidates and not especially about parties. The question is what exactly is the added value for the accessibility of a smaller ballot note, but with a book next to it with candidate names, in relation to the current system of one large note with everything on it. The third point was safety. Safety is largely the same as "simplified' considerations. If it doesn't get easier, it probably won't be safer either. Easier for the electorate can increase the insecurity of the voting process. It seems to me that the security of the electoral process is more important than the convenience of the electorate. How does the government see this relationship and how does the government guarantee that the convenience of the electorate will not be at the expense of the security of the vote? Then, of course, I come to being less prone to fraud. The government states that in Model 1 there is indeed the possibility that the electorate will pick up and fill out several ballots one after the other. There will be a further procedure to prevent more ballots from being handed in than the voter is entitled to. In short, again an additional procedure and thus fraud and error-prone. After all, checking the ballots and whether someone is not accidentally or intentionally filling in two notes requires a great deal of care or systems that are so advanced that you might better check whether digital voting is safer than voting on paper. It is known that there are quite a few objections to digital voices. That is why I am asking how the government weighs the differences between these experiments and the dangers surrounding digital voting when it comes to the criteria currently being used, such as simplicity, accessibility, security and fraud sensitivity. During the debate I also thought of the question of how to check whether the experiment has actually been successful. Personally, I always love being able to vote. You could also say, "Would you give someone a chance to vote twice on that day?" So you do the normal form first and when you've done that, you can go to the next booth and then do the experiment. At the end of the day you'll see if that's a bit similar. Perhaps that is a solution to many problems outlined today. I am afraid that the Minister was afraid of it: my group, too, has seen a completely alien element about the Housing Act in this bill. On behalf of my group, I call on the government once again to stop such strange trips and to keep the legislative process pure. I look forward to the reaction of the government, not just on that last point, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. For the sake of completeness, I do not think that a novelle saves a second term, but that it gives an extra first term, albeit at a later date. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-8.u128	The discussion of both legislative proposals will continue this evening.
