ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the report by Mr van der Staaij, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 547 final - Doc. Mr Van der Staaij is also present in our midst. The debate is also about the letter from the President, Vera Bergkamp, on the manners in the House of Representatives. At the beginning of this debate, I should like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and his entire committee for the work they have done on behalf and at the request of the Chamber. The members of the working group were, of course, Mr Van der Staaij, he was the chairman of Mr Sneller, Mr Geurts, Mrs Leijten, Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Kamminga. I deliberately do not mention the party names, because they did it in their function, for all of us and for the sake of all of us. We are going to debate today the recommendations made by the committee. The agenda also includes a letter from the President entitled "Behaviour and forms of communication during the debates in the House of Representatives." They may be asked questions and explanations of the report and of the letter of inquiry. I'd only like to keep our adagium a little. You know it all: speaking is silver, but listening to each other is gold. You have undoubtedly looked at the Rules of Procedure in preparation for the debate. I've done that thoroughly once more. In that it occurred to me that the President could allow interruptions, but that it was not a right. I don't really like to do everything exactly, but there has to be a bit of direction. I was thinking of six questions among myself in the first term. I won't let the CPB pass them on. If it's very pressing, there could be a seventh interruption. But if you're dusty for a very long time, I might find five enough. That is a bit to be taken into account in the first period. I can see the rebellion breaking out right away. Then we have arrived at the beginning of the debate, at the beginning of the first term of the Chamber. In my corners of the eye, I see Mrs Van der Plas in the starting blocks. That's convenient, because she's the first speaker. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear people at home, who may be watching, and dear people in the gallery: welcome. It's nice to have the MPs in such a large number. I hope this doesn't go away from my time; it's a small introduction. I'm cheating already. Mr. Chairman. For the first time in history, the House of Representatives is holding a debate on its own behaviour. The fact that we are doing this, although on my initiative, is actually very strange. Still, I think it's necessary. The brutality and hardening we see in society, which we all have concerns about, sometimes seems to be a 151st seat here. Almost to the head a year ago, I came here into the Chamber. In that year I have been amazed many times at the way in which we present ourselves here to the Dutch people. Often I have sat in place, with my hands in front of my eyes, shaking head, with substitute shame and with crooked toes. We expect Dutch citizens to behave neatly, to look after each other, to be polite, to listen to each other, not to swear, not to hurt, not to offend, and not to insult. The same citizen sometimes sees us showing completely different behavior here. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is a threat of tribunals, a crying out 'your time will come'. Members of parliament with an uncomfortable opinion for racist, fascist or xenophobic. Members of parliament turn their backs because they say something that the other doesn't like. A Member of Parliament who wishes another elected Member of Parliament to "sit down," just because that other Member of Parliament has a different opinion or does business in his private time that the other Member of Parliament does not like. In a debate, during the input of a member of the Chamber, the chairman, pointing out your watch, sighing and supportive, you think that the speaking time of that member of Parliament has been enough. And why? Because he or she is expressing an opinion that the other Member of Parliament simply does not like. Directors who start talking extensively with each other in box K, while a Member of Parliament addresses them in an input. If the rulers are sitting here, it is important that Members of Parliament be listened carefully. After all, they speak here the words of the Dutch people. Don't run picks on cell phones, don't sit down and don't pull weird grims. Back to our own behavior. Just a few more. Talking to each other in a loud tone and laughing in the plenary room and in the walkway, while a member of the Chamber makes a contribution. Colleagues accuse Members of motions before the stage, suggesting that only a few things are being messed up here. Laughing at a Member in a loud voice saying something that you don't like. Raging and pounding out of the hall. Apart from the interrupting microphone of everything and some shouting to a fellow chamber member or the chairman. And then I'm not even talking about leaks, not being available to the Chamber, sending hundreds of pages of documents to the Chamber late and then expecting you to read them the next day before the debate, excluding parties from coalition negotiations in advance, making calls in the media to exclude other parties, making fellow chamber members for everything and still on social media, not defusing lies about other parties, pointing fingers at each other in a debate and in a suspension screaming at each other because a member of the Chamber may be breaking the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I have seen it all come through here. Do I think we should go after each other with velvet gloves? Are we not allowed to say anything at all? Definitely not. I am also opposed to a ban on words such as "idiot" or "bully mad." Freedom of speech is at the top. But remember now and then: whatever you do not want to happen to you, do not do so to another. A golden rule, which I also taught my children. I think of us as a family, too. We didn't choose each other, but we have to do it together. As with any family, there may be disagreement and even argument, as long as we realize that we have to go on together. Never forget who we stand for: the citizens of the Netherlands, who have given us their trust. Mr. Chairman. Another thing about how we position ourselves, literally, in the blue chairs, arranged from left to right. We already polarize each other with this classification: we against them. Why is that? The Dutchman also does not live in a spectrum from left to right. The VVD'er lives next door to the SP'er and the BBB'er lives next door to the Volter. That makes it all the crazier that we are going to be categorized here on the basis of an old-fashioned spectrum from left to right, following the example of long forgotten French revolutionaries. Let's get inspiration from the centuries-old Icelandic parliament, the Althing. There are parliamentarians there by parliament, mixed by lottery tickets, regardless of parties. It is a fair system that benefits personal relations and party relations. It prevents rooster behavior and yelling. In fact, Icelandic experience has shown that it improves the relationship between the coalition and the opposition. Finally, Mr President. I also understand that I am not directly the dreamed neighbour of Mr Klaver or Mr De Groot of D66. So I propose an interim solution: divide the political groups across the plenary by drawing lots, with a place on the aisle for the group chairmen, as is the case now. I will table a motion for that. I think it is a first concrete step towards a new governance culture. How nice would it be, Mr. Clover, if we could file that motion together? Think about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I see an interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mrs van der Plas is the first speaker here because she has requested this debate. She did so after my colleague Sjoerdsma was intimidated here in plenary with the threat 'your time will come'. So I would like to thank her for that, because I think it is very good that she has requested this debate. I also want to ask her about something we saw last week. For two years, comparisons have been made in this Chamber between the Second World War and the regime of the occupying forces then and the corona measures. Last weekend, scientists in the Netherlands came to the door to present the Anton Mussert Prize. I've been in touch with one of those scientists. He said it was incredibly intimidating for himself, but especially for his family that people with such a message come to your home. I would like to ask Mrs Van der Plas the following question. Does she also find it reprehensible that this is happening and does she understand that this can be incredibly intimidating and that this may be the result of things being said here in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's very simple: I just find that disgusting. I find it utterly disgusting that this is happening. In any case, I believe that any comparison with World War II, in any area, is flawed. We sometimes see it the other way around, for example, that farmers are accused of Nazi practices. We all have to stay away from that. I'm just disgusted by one of those Anton Mussert Prizes. There's nothing else I can say. We just really need to stop that kind of shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Paternotte in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	I'm glad to hear that. I think we should all look at ourselves. I think that goes for me, too. I think I've said some things that I think have contributed to the manners around here? I would like Mrs van der Plas to be able to distance herself from the actions of Farmers Defence Force in this respect. They once stood with five men in a Farmer's Defence Force shirt at Rob Jetten's house. He was then still MP at the door when he was sick at home, to share their point of view on intensive livestock farming. The fact that you visit people and show 'I know where you live' is not something we should have, and we should also condemn from the Chamber. Mrs van der Plas has said before: I didn't mind. But I think, in the light of the debate we are having and the things we saw last weekend, we could all agree that we simply shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	I would like to go into this a little bit more because I know that situation. I also know the people who have been there. It wasn't Farmer's Defence Force action. So we have to be extremely careful about making assumptions, polarizing, relying on what the media say and relying on what is on social media. I know these people personally. The person who went there is Henk Oonk. He's a rabbit farmer from Questioner in the Achterhoek. Henk Oonk is about the sweetest farmer in the Netherlands I know. That's seriously true. Mr President, I see that you are looking at the clock, but I would like to go into it a little bit more, because I think that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	I'll give you the opportunity, but not for a five-minute exhibition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Henk Oonk has been raided by animal activists in his stable. There's been a break-in. He's been very confused about that. When Mr. Jetten was sick because of corona, he just seemed nice to bring him a food package as a fun action, because you have to eat healthy to get better. That action was completely innocent. I know; I myself have moving insight. I thought at the time: that's all posterity; that's what you do in the Achterhoek. My moving insight has indeed taught me that you do not. You're not just gonna stand by someone's door and ring the doorbell, especially with a politician. That's just very intimidating for everyone. Henk apologized for that and also talked to Rob Jetten about it. He's very sorry about that. But I do want to get rid of the frame that Farmers Defence Force has been drawn there as an aggressive farming group. That's just not true. I think it is important that we learn from that too. If we see such assumptions and frames, what exactly do we know about them? Is that what happened? Can't we talk? Can't we just call someone and say, "Oh, man, what's the deal?" It solves a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. There is a third question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	The judge has ruled that Farmers Defence Force has also committed itself to the direct threat to journalists and to aggressive behaviour during demonstrations. These were five people in a Farmer's Defence Force shirt. I'm sure there are people in there who are very nice. I regret that Mrs Van der Plas is now condoningly talking about Farmers Defence Force again, but I think it is very good that she is now saying, also as a moving insight, that this kind of house visit, whether it be politicians, scientists or nurses, is absolutely impossible and that we will have to condemn it from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'd like to respond to that. I won't condone anything. I also find it rather regrettable that Mr Paternotte says that. I'll explain what happened. That has nothing to do with condoning. That's just an explanation. And what everyone thinks of that, I leave it to everyone. It's up to anyone. I also regret that this debate is now being used to condemn the actions of Farmers Defence Force. We're not talking about that at all. We are talking about threats to politicians, but we did not talk at all about the peasant protests on the Malieveld. So I find this regrettable, because this is what happens all the time. Now the other way is also framed and polarized. I am standing here to have a constructive debate, to have a constructive discussion, and Mr Paternotte is already starting to accuse other groups of people. Last week I saw Mr Paternotte on social media calling Mr Wilders a racist. Look, anything's fine. But you have to ask yourself, do you have to do everything you can? Do I have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	In conclusion, Mr. Paternotte, because I think you've already reasonably exchanged the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think so too, but this is about the impact on society of what we say in this Chamber. I have spent the past year in hospitals where nurses say that we can only do our job if there is a guard at the door during visiting hours, because people here are shouting texts that they also hear in Parliament debates. We see there are raids at the G.D.D. If we do not draw the line here in the Chamber with Farmers Defence Force, which the judge has said is guilty of threatening journalists, then we are also contributing to the fact that people in society think that this is apparently normal, or that it is allowed at least in politics. I understand very well that Mrs Van der Plas, if she knows someone personally and knows what happened, has a feeling about it and shares it. But when people do things that we say they should never do, for example, they go to the people at home to make it clear that you know where they live, even if they are well-meaned, then I think it is very important to draw a line in this Chamber and to send a clear message about them. I hope Mrs van der Plas will do the same. Because what we are saying here in Parliament, what we are exchanging here, has an impact on the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	I did. I think I just answered that question after the first interruption. So I don't know if I should do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	I do regret, quite frankly, that Mr Paternotte is using this debate to put other groups and other people away for a while. What you don't want to happen, don't do to anyone else. I would also like to give that to Mr Paternotte, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	That's asking for another response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	I would like to give that to Mr Paternotte. Again, I went here cheerful and happy, because I thought: we are finally going to reflect on our own behavior. I'm the first to do that myself, and I'll be the first to admit that I'm making mistakes. However, I would like to ask: do not bring up all sorts of things, because no one is spotless in the Chamber, not even Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	If Bible texts are quoted, I will move forward quickly. I think Mrs Van der Plas has a very reflective story. That appeals to me. I think it is a very refreshing proposal, which she has made before, to sit down together and make connections. I do not yet know whether I am voting in favour of the motion, but as a proposal I find it refreshing. Of course, what we are saying here has an effect on society. The fact that what is said here, sometimes the derailment of a debate, which Mrs van der Plas has just given visual examples of in her contribution, has an impact on society's relations. It's always complicated when it comes close, when it comes to your own supporters, or people in your own constituency. Sometimes they have very good intentions. So I also like to hear that the man who went to Mr Jetten regrets that. But from Farmers Defence Force I know, very closely, that people are indeed threatened, that people indeed needed to be protected, that people indeed felt that they were being hunted. If that is the case, is Mrs Van der Plas prepared, even when it comes close, to distance herself from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	Sure. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I disapprove of all forms of violence. I will tell you even more: I have never even touched my children. Yet they were well raised. You can just say it with words. I'm really sorry about the word. Talk to each other. Of course I do. I also know that in every group, including within Farmers Defence Force, there are excesses. In every group there are excesses. I expect from those groups, from any organization, Farmers Defence Force, ADO Den Haag or whatever, that these people are addressed to their behaviour. That's what we can expect from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	Let's take it one step further. It is precisely when it comes close, and especially when it comes close to Mrs Van der Plas, who influences it, that it has more impact if she says anything about it than if Mr De Groot or anyone says anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yeah, but look...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	So that can help, even if it's tricky. I very much agree with Mrs van der Plas: we have to do it with words. As far as I am concerned, it may be even sharper on the content than we now sometimes show. But where it degenerates into threats, where words here skip to society and lead to heating and ultimately to threats, we can also nip it in the bud. I hope Mrs van der Plas says that she will also take responsibility for this. So that not only people within a group appeal to each other, but that we too take responsibility for addressing society, even when it comes close.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	Yes, I very much agree. Anyone who knows me well and who follows me well, because there are a lot of assumptions, I can tell you, I also know that I do. I've condemned certain actions on social media. I told you not to do that. Something happened to a vegan tracker once. Then they were going to take pictures of vegans and they would put them on Facebook. I hate that. That's what I said. Then of course I also get a lot of reactions from these groups in the vein of: are you suddenly against us? No, but it's against that action. You just shouldn't; you don't want that to happen, so why do it to someone else? I don't understand. So I always will, and I always have, knowing where it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ephraim, who will speak on behalf of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. I'll make it brief, but I'll get back to you on that. I apologize for the fact that I speak bulletically. The manners in the Chamber. Mrs Bergkamp has written a very good note, with the venom in the tail: unnecessary grieving remarks. If there are unnecessary grievances, then there must be a contrario and logically also "necessary grievances'. The President's task is to determine what is "unnecessaryly grievanced" and it is the task of each individual MP to decide for themselves whether a contribution is "necessaryly grievanced" or intended for the grassroots and social media. Unfortunately, in the Chamber I see both honest ideological enthusiasm full of emotion and pitifully amateur theatre with which one would not get the role of tree in an audition for the local theatre association. The temple of Delphi once said "gnothi seauton," know yourself. Let us thus realize whether what we add to others is not too rude. The litmus test is remarkably simple. Mrs van der Plas has already said it, and I had also thought of it: what you do not want to happen, do not do to anyone else. Whoever wants it scholar, leze Kant and his categoric imperative: let's all stop yelling, screaming and snooping. The procedure and effectiveness of the Chamber. It is striking how long plenary debates last, although speaking time is limited. Interruptions begin with a long introduction to bring out the idea of their own, so that debates and, moreover, the regulation of work and explanations of vote can be extremely time-consuming. Let's stop that. Short and concise and to the point should be the starting points. Collegiality in the Chamber, in short: oratio pro domo. There are hardly any financial resources for splitters, half of the speaking time in plenary, half of the speaking time in two-minute debates, are formally not members of any committee and are generally second-class citizens, although, like Mr Omtzigt, they have enough preference for five seats or in the case of Mr Van Haga for four seats. A letter to the Bureau asking for a level playing field unfortunately did not help. Inclusiveness, equal treatment, connection: beautiful but empty words when one chokes one's own colleagues out of cold sense of power. Please give an answer from Mr Van der Staaij. I challenge him here for the microphone. After all, he was chairman of the committee which had to review the procedure of the Chamber. I know Mr Van der Staaij as a righteous and faithful man. But doesn't it "love your neighbors as yourself" apply to split-ups? I'm just asking for equal weapons, a level playing field, for my ideals. Finally, Mr President. It is not to blame the chairman, the Vice-Presidents and the committee chairmen if rudeness, rudeness and rudeness prevail. The solution to this problem lies, deep down, with the members of the House of Representatives and the Cabinet. I conclude with: gnothi seauton.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	Can the Van Haga Group, can Mr Ephraim indicate how much resources they have and compare this with other parties, in terms of time, amount of speaking time, but also financial resources? Is it true that his group of three receives less financial support than the one-man groups of, for example, BBB, BET1 or the Den Haan Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	That is a question I will be very happy to answer. Mr Omtzigt is right. The three of us get less than a one-man group. We are not members of any committee. Parliament's speaking time is half. In a two-minute debate, a splitter has one minute to file motions. That's why I've often been humiliatingly rattling like an idiot or missupporting my motions. Besides, we have the fact that you're always the last to come, which is annoying. Second time limits sometimes have 40 seconds. It's no fun not being able to do your job because you just don't have enough time to read a motion properly. So the resources are very limited. We'll make the best of it. And let's be honest: the effectiveness isn't really damaged by us and other splitters. Then debates would take six to ten minutes longer. Well, with all the hours we're in conclave with each other, that's a drop on a glowing plate. We all know that perfectly well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr Omtzigt for a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	What exactly was the question to be answered by the President and the chairman of the committee? The previous Bishop Commission arranged this. I don't see it in both reports. According to the Haga Group, what should reasonably change? Maybe that can be reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	Since the Member of Parliament must in principle control the government and have the means to do so, there must be at least equal speaking time. Then we are not even talking about the financial resources. Okay, we'll be paying our people down for now, but we need at least equal weapons and a level playing field. I really don't think that's too much to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	Was that enough, Mr. Ommzigt? Yes. There's no follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	I will table a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you. Mr Paternotte, the third speaker on behalf of the Chamber. I mean "from" the Chamber, not "on behalf of" the Chamber. He speaks for D66. It's all coming right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. Putin has launched the attack on democracy in Ukraine. By force, he wants to impose his dictatorship on people who want to speak freely, choose freely and be free. At a time like this, we all feel how important and special it is that we live in a free democracy, a democracy in which we settle our differences peacefully. But the privilege of democracy is also a great responsibility. The 150 of us together, 150 representatives of the people, have to prove that democracy works in this national Chamber. We must show that peace, nuance and cooperation win the screaming, division and hatred. We must work day after day for a resilient democracy. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore grateful to Mr Van der Staaij and the Chamber for the careful preparation of how we can improve the manner in which Parliament operates and how it works. But it is hard and uncomfortable that we are talking about making progress in the House of Representatives, while at the eastern border of Europe the protection of democracy is literally being fought. Mr. Chairman. However, the debate is very much needed today, because we are standing here because people in this Chamber are being accused of their origins or beliefs, because journalists are being thrown away as 'carriage of the ledge' and because fellow chamber members are being threatened with 'your time will come, because there will be tribunals'. Words matter. These kinds of texts lead to policemen, nurses and scientists being harassed and intimidated in our country. If we are talking about this today, about how we deal with each other, about protecting our democracy, then those parties are just too miserable to show up. A debate with those parties is actually something like chess with pigeons. They flutter all the pieces, but if you want to record the damage to the board, then they've flown. The question is, what are we going to do about it? We don't need to find the poisonous cocktail of asshole behavior, intimidation and aggression normal. This requires, first of all, that we all rise up when borders are crossed, always and without exception. I am glad that there is more and more support for this and that everyone is doing so, but we cannot leave it to good intentions alone. Because, as the highest body of our democracy, the behaviour of the Chamber is not only an example, a mirror for the rest of society, but it is also the place where there must be free exchange of views, where the debate must be conducted at the sharpest of the cuts. This is essential for the functioning of the rule of law. However, this is less and less possible when there is another threat and intimidation, because the purpose of this threat is simple: to deprive others of the feeling of security, so that they do not feel free to speak out. That's how you shut each other up. This cannot and must not be done in a democratic legal order. This is precisely how freedom of expression is at stake. That is why, together with the Christian Union, we are proposing to include a new guarantee in our Rules of Procedure, by making a threat a ground on which the President may take the floor and possibly exclude Members of Parliament from the sitting. By doing so, we make it clear that every representative of the people must feel free and safe to speak out here in the heart of our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	You came to the end? Or are you expecting an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, I see people moving slowly to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	You have 30 seconds. I shall give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	In this debate I would also like to pay attention to Mr Van der Staaij's report. The radar work stops if your powerful arm wants it. This also applies here, because a stack of laws, including many own-initiative laws, has been ready to be dealt with here in the Chamber for a long time. It's often just not working out, or it's not fast. Due to the unpredictable and cheesy calendar of Chambers, laws sometimes sit in the waiting room for months. I would therefore like to call on the President to reserve one Chamber day in this Chamber, just one, for the treatment of laws. Wednesday Law Day. Is the chairman willing to try this until the summer recess? Here too, we have a responsibility for the healthy functioning of democracy. It's in our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you. Then there is an interruption by Mrs Leijten, by Mrs Van der Plas and then by Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	Threats must, of course, not and never, and we must condemn them when they occur. If they really go too far, there's got to be some kind of intervention. So far I can track D66. Only what do you do with the threat to democracy at a time when the Minister of Finance does not care about the House of Representatives calling on her to debate purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	Perhaps it is good to mention the facts, because I think it is also important that we, as a Chamber, stick to our own arrangements and procedures. Yesterday, a group colleague from Mrs Leijten and Mrs Marijnissen submitted an oral question to the Prime Minister. Mrs Kaag is not the prime minister. I would like that, by the way, but she is not at the moment. She had a working visit to Belgium, among others. This had already been reported well in advance in accordance with the procedures in force. The Prime Minister, who could not attend Question Time, had to be replaced. But the question was not asked to Mrs Kaag. There was therefore no logical reason at that time to say that Mrs Kaag should be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	I think this is a real shame, that D66 takes a walk with the rules. Yes, an oral question can be submitted to the person in charge you want. If it is unsubscribed and has a foreign obligation or an obligation in the First Chamber or if it is ill, because those are the reasons to unsubscribe from the First Chamber, then there will be a replacement. Mrs Kaag was signed up for that and she didn't unsubscribe. He was just in Maastricht to make a speech on a day when she should be available for the Lower House or the Upper House, the Tuesday. I am so sorry to see double standards in this. Of course, threats should not be allowed, and it often happens here in debates that the SP Group thinks: just dim it all. But if you say, Mr. Paternotte, that this House of Representatives, which also has to keep its back straight in the event of civilisation by the government, has not properly understood it, you measure it with two measures. This is also detrimental to the reliability and prestige of this House of Representatives. Mrs Kaag should have been here yesterday, because she was registered because the Prime Minister had been unregistered during Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	This isn't true. Mrs Kaag had already been withdrawn from Question Time for a very long time in accordance with the procedure laid down for that purpose, for a valid reason, which we all know. The questions were addressed to the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister cannot answer it, there must indeed be a replacement. That could be another ruler. There was also another ruler. So it is not true what Mrs Leijten is saying here. When we talk about the functioning of democracy, I also think it is important that we also follow the rules that have been established here. We can also agree as a Chamber that we believe that during Question Time all 29 directors should be there to answer any question that raises. We can agree on that; I would not be in favour of that. But we have a procedure for this. So it is not the case that a ruler has to sit in the Lower House every time, always, if there is a question. If a question is filed for a ruler, you must be available, but that was not the case. I think it would be a good idea for Mrs Leijten to say so honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mrs Leijten, for a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	There are clear reasons why you are not available to the House of Representatives. If it is said that there will be another ruler and if it is said 'we want the minister' and if the minister is available, the minister should be available. We have seen more often than not that a minister or a ruler came along. I've been through it myself with Mr. Hoekstra and it's happened to Mr. Rutte. You're not supposed to be on the other side of the country. Those are rules we have to abide by. I would have liked it if the D66 Group would stand for the rules that are good for the entire House of Representatives and not explain that her own forewife may be on the other side of the country for a speech and in the evening may sit by the television to talk about purchasing power, but do not have to report to the Chamber. That doesn't give a pass. This is detrimental to confidence in politics. I would like D66 to see it that way and say: we do not want that. Because I think you were right to point out to Mrs van der Plas how she measures with double standards. You say to Mrs Van der Plas: pay attention. Then you'll have to do the same yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	I do not think it is right for Mrs Leijten to go into the point that I am making, namely that Mrs Kaag had already been unsubscribed for some time in advance in accordance with the rules that we put together for that purpose, and that the question had not been asked to her. It wasn't registered for her. Maybe she could have changed her schedule, but that wasn't the case. I do think it is important that if we say here that we think that all 29 directors should be here every Tuesday to answer every question, even if a question has not been registered for them, we can then agree with each other. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	I do not want to go into this point about Mrs Kaag, because she is not here and cannot defend herself, so I also think that we should not talk about this. In general, what happened yesterday in Question Time is of course a good wake-up call. From now on, as parties, we can ask all rulers to be there between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Tuesdays. Then you don't have this kind of misunderstanding, apart from what happened yesterday. My question to Mr Paternotte is: is he prepared within his party to point out to the rulers of D66-house that you should just be here on Tuesday between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think that if a ruler was asked by the Chamber to come to the Chamber, if there was an oral question for that ruler on a subject that is going on yesterday, it was on a very important subject, and if it is possible at that time, then that ruler should change the agenda and come to that. Only, that wasn't the case. That is why I find it difficult to answer the question. If the question on a very relevant subject in itself had been put to Mrs Kaag and she could have changed her agenda at the time, she should have. But that question was not addressed to Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	I had a look at the website of the ministries yesterday. For example, it says in the Ministry of Finance: if you want to make an appointment with the Minister, you can do so and so, but not on Tuesday between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m., because then the chances of you getting an appointment are very small, because the directors must be available to the House of Representatives. So it's even on the website of the ministries. Anyone could have known that. All rulers should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	The question. Mr Paternotte talks about a lot of things, about what others do and about what he thinks. I've always learned: if you point with one finger, three point at you. I would therefore like to ask Mr Paternotte: what three things in the last parliamentary year do he think he could have dealt with them differently, said otherwise or done differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	Whoever is without sin throws the first stone, I say to Mrs Van der Plas. I have just referred to a debate we had this summer. You were there, too. It was there, among other things, about the corona approach. A party that is not there, started there again with all kinds of stories about vaccines that I described as totally unscientific and fake news. Then I also said that I thought the person who said that was crazy. I'm very sorry about what was said. I stood by the bed of someone who told me that he had been questioned by such texts in the House of Representatives and therefore had not taken the vaccination. The next day you hear someone like that died. You get that, but that doesn't make sense if you put people with that kind of qualifications away. I'm gonna have to take care of that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	This was a pretty long answer. Mrs Van der Plas, would you like to ask your third question, or should I go to Mrs Ploumen? I'm going to see Mrs. Ploumen for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Since a few weeks the public gallery has been filled in this room again. We are pleased to hear this, and this is especially the pleasure of many people who have the opportunity to attend our meetings. And while we are talking about ourselves, I would like to ask Mr Paternotte this. I'd feel like a room to go to the people in the country. Not everyone gets to The Hague, but also to go to Maastricht, to Groningen, to Enschede, to Den Helder. And I would like to ask Mr Paternotte: does he support me in this proposal? Because I think it would be best if we all traveled to the region together, instead of asking everyone to take the trouble to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	I personally think it is very important that we as MPs are everywhere. I was in Utrecht, Amersfoort and Deventer last weekend. I'm going to Den Bosch, Breda, Tilburg and Eindhoven next weekend. But where I have a little bit of doubt... That's also because I've talked about this in the city council: shouldn't we be in town anymore? I have been on the city council of Amsterdam for a long time, and the city council has thought that whole city very big of course. So, shouldn't we even go there? Then what you notice is, if we did, we'd sit there and meet again. On the contrary, it is much more important that we not only talk here, but as much as possible with everyone in the Netherlands, because we are a parliament. So I think the idea is very charming, but it should be in such a way that you are not especially busy with each other in that place, because then I think it has too little added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	Of course, MPs have to visit all places in the Netherlands. And I think that is what all Members of Parliament are doing, not only in campaign time, but also in between. My proposal is another: let's meet in other places in the country. There are quite a lot of municipal councils, but also mayors, triangles, lectures that do so, precisely to make the meeting more accessible to everyone. So I would say: let everyone make work visits in all kinds of places in the region, but let us as a Chamber also meet in such a place, for the people for whom it may be more complicated to come here, so that they can also attend a meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yes. At the same time, as far as the public gallery is concerned, I do think it is extremely important that these classes are back here. We in this Chamber once said that every child should have the opportunity to visit the house of democracy once, to see how we do that work with each other. And it is not only very important that they can come through here, but also that we show you how to settle differences of opinion with each other. To show you the way you're meeting each other, and that we don't make a mess of it, which is exactly why you're setting the wrong example. Well, those triangles and lectures, when they meet, do they still do it in private? I'm curious. I think Mrs Ploumen has a thought-provoking idea of what that is like. I'd like to check that out. So I think it's nice. However, I think that, as Members of Parliament, we should be in many places; if we are going to meet in those places, I would like to see exactly what the added value of this is. Yeah, they could come by a little easier, but they could come by here. And I think it's very important that everyone gets that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	One doesn't rule out the other. My proposal is very simple: let us meet regularly in different places in the country; let us make these meetings more accessible to everyone. It is quite a journey from Maastricht to The Hague; let us make the journey the other way a few times a year. In fact, let MPs continue to make work visits. And my proposal would be to ask the Presidium to work out a proposal for how that could be done. And I can see Mr Paternot's support for such a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	What I see in front of me is a kind of public meeting at the Vrijthof, where André Rieu at the beginning also gives a little listening value...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	It's getting cozy too!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	I can absolutely see that we can do something beautiful there, especially in that fantastic Maastricht. So I'm very curious about your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. Then we go to the fourth speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mrs Leijten, who will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman. As the energy bill goes through the roof and there is a bloody war raging in Ukraine, we spent an entire afternoon on the agenda of the House of Representatives to talk about ourselves. The SP Group finds that embarrassing. We would very much like to see more frequent thinking in the debate here: dim down. 'Cause sometimes it doesn't look good. But that's not the whole House of Representatives. It irritates us impatiently that, at the moment something goes wrong, it sometimes runs well than the entire House of Representatives. It's so easy, because with that, the entire government can pretend that the House of Representatives is allowed to be the door-to-door. Then you do not have to show up when there is a Question Time or not to provide information when asked by Members of Parliament. Then perhaps you don't have to do your best to answer questions in time, or to listen properly to MPs at all. So we would have preferred this debate to be just a legislative debate. Last night we were going to talk about funding political parties. That's been deleted. There are still a lot of laws on the role we would like to have, as well as an initiative law like yours last night, Mr President. 'Cause the room does so much more. There are MPs in this Chamber who work very hard with each other on parliamentary surveys. There are MPs who have organised a round table discussion about the Archive Act, which anyone would think would be a hammer piece. But because we listened to the people from practice, Mrs Ploumen, who came here because we let them speak, the MPs realized that the law that was there was not good enough and that we all need to improve it. Of course, we'll ask the government first if it can come up with a better law. There's a lot going on in this room. I sat with Mr Van der Staaij in the Van der Staaij committee, in which we looked together at the instruments we have and how we can better use them for the sum of the parts. Because we're more than that. We are all there when you measure with double standards, or when something inappropriate is said in the debate. Last night, your initiative law, President, something that I don't think a Member of Parliament would take as an insult, but it did. While an initiative law was being dealt with, which is the most constructive form of political enterprise by a Member of Parliament. You make a law yourself. One of the non-submissioning parties said that it had more constructive proposals. I did not rise, because it was not meant to be an insult, but it hangs here in the Chamber and in the vicinity of the Chamber full of insults, meant and unintentional. That's because words, the language, are our means. Sometimes you cross the border. Then you report it. Or you don't mean something that is heard. Well, then you apologize. This is how we should deal with each other: once in a while. It irritates us very often how the House of Representatives is looked at and how the House of Representatives itself talks about the House of Representatives. Then it is forgotten that we are the sum of the parts. All you have to do is turn on the political podcasts on the weekends. They're all talking about the same subjects and the same fuss, because fuss just produces publicity. By the way, that also applies to fuss about the fuss. We now have a debate, a fuss about the fuss, when I would like to talk so much about how we can improve the laws. This morning, we had legal treatment. That went really fast and really smooth. There were four parties present. I can understand why it could only be four parties, because our agendas are packed. That is why we could have spent this time better as far as we were concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Paternotte has come forward for an interruption. Then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	It may be a bit unusual, but we are, of course, talking about the work of the House of Representatives. In recent years, Mrs Leijten has done incredibly much work behind the scenes from the Commission for the Letters of Faith, the Digital Affairs Committee that she has helped launch and about every interrogation committee that has started once, which you think is really necessary for the proper functioning of our Parliament. I'd like to compliment her on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	Well, that doesn't have to be, however nice it is, Mr Paternotte, because I've been with you with great pleasure on the first interrogation committee of the House of Representatives that was about fiscal constructions; and maybe it's finally gonna happen that those mailbox companies are actually closed down, let's hope so. But I don't think we should stare too much. There are so many problems in society. An important report was published in December on the Netherlands' cancellation. They are people who no longer have faith in politics, who are no longer going to vote because they do not believe that politics brings them anything. And then we stand here all afternoon talking about ourselves. Yes, values in our Chamber and a well-functioning Chamber are extremely important and we would like to contribute to that because that is normal, because you are more than just that Member of Parliament who must also have good positions in the hope of voting for them. But it is precisely 'crushing pays' and 'crushing about the fuss also pays', that is how I see this debate and that is how the SP sees this debate. And we regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	There is no fuss about this debate at all. The fuss about this debate is actually being created. To be honest, I find this a little faint from Mrs Leijten. This debate was requested in November and it has already been resisted twice, one because of the illness of the President of the Chamber and the other because of another debate. I do not think we are standing here staring at the belly, because we are people's representatives. I see this debate as a reflection on our behaviour, actually as a kind of responsibility towards the citizens. We are here to tell citizens or to try to explain why we are doing things the way we are doing them and what we might do better. I think citizens are entitled to that. Citizens choose us. Citizens pay us. Like Mrs Leijten and many other Members of Parliament, we get a lot of reactions from people who are completely annoyed by the behaviour in the House of Representatives. Well, then I think it makes sense for you to have a debate on that. The fact that there is now that situation in Ukraine was, of course, not foreseeable in November, but there can always be something to explain why you are not holding the debate. Then there is my specific question. If Mrs Leijten is so bothered by this and thinks it is a bit nonsense, I would have thought: well, then I am not coming and I am not doing any of this, because I am going to do my parliamentary work. But you say you think it's bullshit and then you're standing here for five minutes telling me you think it's bullshit. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	When this debate was requested, we did not support it. When it went off the agenda, we said: "Take it off." We have made it very clear that we do not need this. At the same time, we have said that it is a good thing that we have a Van der Staaij committee. We've contributed to it. The debate on 'More than the sum of the parts' could also have been conducted by the Committee on the Interior or by the estimate. There are other times when the Chamber talks about its own activities and its own size. So we didn't have to do this. I also feel like a representative of the people and I like to answer for what I do. Only that what is shown in the "tiktokisation" as it was called today by the NOS is shown to a lot of people, also in videos of parties themselves, and the SP participates in that too, you know, is not our job. That's what I said here today. I'm actually not that gloomy about this new House of Representatives. Indeed, setting up that digital business committee was very nice with new members and there is now a good Chambers Committee. It is not the political podcast and fuss, but it is extremely important and it will pay off in the control function that we have as representatives of the people vis-à-vis the government, which may do a little more with digitisation. That is how I am doing my part, and that is how I see this debate. And because I think it is important to let that be heard, I am taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	I would therefore like to ask Mrs Leijten the following. I think that Mrs Leijten is very short of the House of Representatives by portraying this debate as 'everything happens in Ukraine while we are sitting here staring at the belly buttons'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	But I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	My question is then: do you not think you are failing the Members of Parliament? Mrs Leijten is actually making it seem as if we are sitting here debating a little useless and that nothing else is happening. Debates are currently taking place in all kinds of committee rooms. Every Member of Parliament here, I think, has been present today at one or more debates at a substantive level. And this debate is just one of the debates that are taking place right now. In fact, I think, and I hope Mrs Leijten agrees with me, that putting this debate down in this way is simply wrong and, in fact, a bit of a false picture of the work of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	I have just argued that I am not gloomy about the work of the Chamber. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that the Van der Staaij Committee has opted for the title 'the sum of the parts'. It annoys me that the moment the Chamber adopts a law, it says "the Chamber" because it is "the majority of the Chamber." It is often enough that a minority runs up against that majority. These are substantive debates. For years I have been disturbed by the fact that it is not enough about the content and only about the form and the image. If we were less concerned with form and imagery, not only in the Chamber, but also around it, in journalism, we would get much further on substantive issues. I'm sure of it. Let me make a final comment, if that is all right, Mr President. It is addressed to the President. She says in her letter that insults can lead to dehumanisation. That is, of course, right at the heart of the matter. After all, insults are meant to put someone away and make them irrelevant. But that can also happen in many other ways, for example if the policy only makes someone a number or an indication. In this society, do we no longer have much to do with dehumanisation by policy, not being seen by the government, by agencies? Doesn't that create discomfort? Isn't that inconvenience that we see in society and what we're all worried about, even in the end what you see in plenary? How does the President see that? You can say, as Mr Paternotte said, what is said here reflects on society. But it can also be the other way around: because things get stuck in society and people get stuck there, that reflects in this debate. I think that self-reflection is also important in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you. I call Mr Klaver. He will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr President, thank you. First of all, many thanks to our President. She stuck her neck out writing this letter. I will deal with the content of this in a moment. But also thanks to Mr Van der Staaij and his committee. Thank you so much for all the work. Actually, I'd like to start with that. I think it is very good that the various tasks of our House of Representatives are being separated. We are representatives of the people, about which I will say more later, but we also have a controlling task. I think that the debate of our people's representatives should be much sharper. The differences between the different parties should be much clearer on content. But in our controlling task, the difference between our parties should actually fade a little more. Then I'm referring to the time we spend on lawmaking. I believe that much more time can be devoted to this, both in the committees, which Mr van der Staaij also refers to, with joint rapporteurs, and here in Parliament. It shouldn't matter whether you're opposition or coalition. The legal technique is not just about the ideological preferences you have for certain policies, but also whether it is true what it says: is it really possible to implement them? I think it is very important to find each other as Chamber and see how the committee's report can help us with this. Most of my contribution today is actually about the role of the people's representatives. Thank God we live in a democratic rule of law. Every time I look at Ukraine, I think: how special is it that we are allowed to have debates with each other. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Hermans. I am delighted to be able to disagree with her on a great many issues and to have a strong debate on them, but within the rules of our democratic rule of law. We must accept the fact that at the end of the day there will be a vote and decisions will be taken. Eventually, here in the Lower House, the majority decides. My great concern, which I believe should be addressed by this debate, is that this democratic rule of law is systematically undermined here in this Parliament. I say to the President that if you say that you want to intervene more often to make the debate work better, then you have my full support. But my biggest concern isn't in the insults. My main concern is that if you claim that the law has been broken by ministers, you do not go to the police and you do not press charges, and you say that you have no confidence that this is going to a court because they are not trustworthy and part of the big conspiracy; that you say that there should be tribunals to prosecute ministers and MPs later. With that, you don't accept that there are rules of the game that we have to accept with each other. We're playing soccer together, but on one side of the Chamber there's a game of shuffling, and that's dangerous. That is why I would not just like to talk today about how we treat each other and whether that happens nicely enough. But this is the core for me. I would like to ask the President and call on him to intervene. Why? Because I am so anxious to disagree here with the CDA on the freedom of education and its importance. I would like to disagree with Mrs Hermans on whether we should tax rich people a little more in the Netherlands or not. I would like to disagree with the SP on whether or not Europe is a good idea. But I do not want to have the debate on whether the democratic rule of law matters. If the seat legs are cut from them, it is not just a question of a substantive debate. Every opinion is worth the same. If you say that you do not accept the democratic rule of law, then that opinion is not worth the same and then the referee of that debate asks you to intervene. I really want to call on her to do that. There is a lot more at stake here than the ways of dealing with it. Our democracy is being attacked from the outside, literally, right now, by Putin in Eastern Europe. But democracy is also under attack from within. That is why I have two additional matters. I have previously made the point that I believe that parties who make it clear that they are on Russia's side and do not distance themselves from what is happening there should be excluded from confidential information that is shared. I sent a letter on that to the Bureau. In the meantime, I understand that there is a real need for a Chamber ruling on this issue. I will table a motion on this later. Secondly, I would like to know what the Chamber is doing to do more research into the financial flows that exist. A motion for a resolution has been passed for political parties, but it also concerns MPs. There is currently a case about a Member of Parliament who has not given up income. That MP isn't cooperating with that investigation. How are we going to deal with that as a room? Are we just gonna let that happen or are we really gonna do some more research?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	I wholeheartedly agree with what Mr Klaver says about the rule of law. We can sometimes discuss the content more clearly, but we can do so within the rules of the democratic rule of law. Inside, therefore, the content can be sharp. I very much agree with that. Mr Klaver proposed that some parties should be excluded from confidential briefings. On what grounds? I get the sentiment. I understand the emotion. I have that emotion myself, too, if you look at what is happening in Ukraine now and if it is said to be a very mild reaction. I have the same emotion as Mr. Klaver. But then what's the rule of the game? Then what's the criterion? I find that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	I understand that very well. I've thought about that a lot and a lot. It is not enough simply to have a feeling or to disagree with a political party. But I'll explain to you where it's in here. At present, there has been the greatest war of attack on the European continent since the Second World War. The whole world community recognises that aggression comes from Russia and that Ukraine is the victim here. That's a convict. They're gonna get away from that. This is a conflict that is currently taking place in Ukraine, but which could be much greater and a direct threat to Dutch security. When there are parties in the Dutch parliament who do not distance themselves from what Russia is doing and use the same words as those coming from the propaganda machine of the Kremlin, I think that is sufficient reason to say that we are not taking the risk of sharing secret information with these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you. I call Mrs Hermans. It will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the President, today in box K, for having stuck her neck in writing the note, as Mr Klaver said, in order to give direction to today's debate, but also to tomorrow's debate and every day after that. That direction has the support of the VVD. Mr. Chairman. Today we are having a debate about our debate here. It feels weird to do that, while at the moment of speaking a war is going on in Ukraine, people are hiding in subway stations and people are massively fleeing war and violence. However wretched this situation may be, it shows all the more that it is a great good that we in the Netherlands speak freely with each other and that we live in a democracy in which different opinions and positions can exist side by side and in which we fight each other with words and not with weapons. Let us cherish that and be incredibly sparing of it. Mr. Chairman. We have all been elected to represent people in the country and to deal with their problems. All with the conviction that we have the best ideas for the future of our country. This sometimes leads to sharp and heated discussions. And that's good. In fact, we cannot live without that discussion and without that debate. But it must be done with respect: respect for one another, for our democracy and for the institution that we are here together. "I didn't know adult people could argue so uglylyly with each other," said one of the students at a Zoom meeting that I had last week with the class that sent an open letter to the Stentor and which, I think, also visited you, Mr President. I was touched by that statement. Because that class was watching and saw something happening here that undermined the dignity of the Chamber. That dignity is a responsibility of all of us. There are no rules or lists. It is the balance that each of us makes over and over again when choosing words and pitch. In doing so, we will all make different choices and the context will also determine what is appropriate and what is not. We all have a duty to address each other when, in our opinion, the dignity of the Chamber is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u87	I see that there is an interruption by Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u88	Mrs Hermans rightly says that democracy is a great asset; we should be fortunate that we are not at war and that we can have the debate. But how does Mrs Hermans look at the fact that this is democratic? Is it true that the coalition has recently stopped a debate that all the other parties had asked for? Then we are talking about the Wob case about VWS and OMT and the break-up of the coalition agreement, which I believe was also an issue. What is democratic about agreeing beforehand, with the coalition, to block a debate? To be honest, I found that rather disappointing. Or is it not tuned and is it a coincidence? Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u89	In this House of Representatives we have rules. We have rules about how we deal with each other and rules about what debates are taking place and when they are taking place. In the scheme, the parties can apply and then it is up to the parties to provide support or no support. The President then counts the number of seats, the number of votes. If there is a majority in favour of a debate, there will be a debate. And if there isn't, there isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u90	These rules were known to me. Thank you. This is what I'm talking about. Is that pre-conceived by the coalition? Does a minister have to be kept out of trouble and is it then placed on an agreement? Maybe it's the big boss and Mr. Rutte says so himself? Or is it a coincidence and are they all individual considerations? It's possible, but I don't believe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u91	I was just talking about how debates will or will not be on the plenary agenda. Now we are talking about whether there is any talk in the coalition. The answer to that is yes. The four chairmen of the political groups, as well as spokesmen from the coalition, are in agreement with each other. I also find that perfectly logical in a collaboration you have with each other. We're a team. We have made agreements with each other and we are also trying to implement them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u92	Mr Ephraim for his third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u93	I was already aware of that. I wonder if it is democratic, but fortunately the four coalition members who blocked the debate came to the microphone with their heads bent and shy. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u94	Does Mr Klaver also want to interrupt or is he just stretching his legs? Mrs Hermans continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u95	I was referring to the fact that we all have the task of addressing each other when, in our opinion, the dignity of the Chamber is at stake. But there are also statements that can't be, which simply shouldn't be. Insulting, threatening and intimidating are examples of this. You don't do that at home, not on the street, not at school, so I wouldn't really like to say: definitely not here in the House of Representatives. In doing so, the chairman can and may intervene and the VVD supports that. The same applies to calls about non-compliance with the law. If that happens very explicitly, it is obvious: then intervention by the President is perfectly logical. But the President is also right to say that there is a grey area, where although it is not literally called upon not to comply with the law, everything is felt to be a violation or undermining of the rule of law. My party believes that at such a time it is up to Members of Parliament to stand up and engage in the debate. But the VVD Group also supports the President to intervene in these cases. I would like to say here that, if there is any doubt about catching up, it is a motto. I would like a reply from the President. Mr. Chairman. We are also discussing today the report of the Van der Staaij committee on strengthening the position of the House of Representatives and how we can increase our strength together. It is a good report, for which my group would very much like to thank the committee. I'm not doing the report justice by highlighting just one thing, but time still forces me to do 24 seconds. A good substantive debate requires the right knowledge of the content of laws, of the legal history and of how a law or policy will work out in practice and in implementation. The Van der Staaij committee also points that out. What possibilities does Mr Van der Staaij see for giving this performance an even stronger place in our work? Does the President-in-Office see that, in this case, the President-in-Office of the Council also has an added value in having another debate with the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Implementing Organisations, which presented the Klem report between desk and policy last year around this time? Mr President, I am really finishing up. It is more important than ever that we allow the debate to be about what it is meant to be about: solving problems. For example, this is now quite evident in terms of ensuring safety and taking economic blows where possible. Let us listen to each other, bridge differences and find solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u96	Thank you. Mr Klaver has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u97	Many thanks to Mrs Hermans. She pointed out that she felt it was important for the President to intervene at those times when there was a grey area. I made a similar call and I want to see if we're talking about the same thing. On page 15 of the letter it was a heavy letter from the President about that grey area when it comes to statements that are a threat to the democratic rule of law. Is that exactly what Mrs Hermans is referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u98	I do not have the page numbers exactly in mind, but it does refer to Chapter 4 when it comes to calling for unlawful action. In the first part of that speech, the President refers to the very explicit call for a law not to be complied with or to be left behind. And then she says: it gets harder with those statements that are a bit in between, but where you can get that feeling. Those are statements that, because of the context or coherence of things that someone says, are actually going in the direction of undermining the rule of law and democracy. Given the reason for this debate, I would say in relation to that grey area: if there is any doubt, let us catch up and intervene. My group will then support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u99	I'm happy about that. I am thinking, for example, of all those cases where judges are suspected or where scientists are put in the dock. That is not only a debate between politicians here in the Chamber, but also as a Chamber we must draw a line together, as the President put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u100	I would like to respond to that very briefly. I agree with what Mr Klaver says. I would like to emphasise that I am speaking on behalf of the VVD Group that we will support the President if she intervenes in such a case. But I also think that all 150 of us here in the Chamber have the responsibility at that time to stand up and engage in the debate and dialogue on what is being said and why a border is being crossed as far as we are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u101	I would ask you to stand still for a moment, because Mrs Simons also wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u102	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u103	Of course I agree with Mrs Hermans. It is important that, whenever we observe abuses of any kind here in the Chamber, we all rise up together. Now, in my view, the problem is also a bit in the observation. I myself have experienced that a ruler here made statements that are intricate, racist or xenophobic. Nobody got up. That is why BET1 is in the Chamber, which is no problem, because we are getting up. But I have the impression that no one stands up at such a time, because they simply do not recognize what is happening at that time. Does Mrs Hermans think that there might also be value in developing skills in order to recognise the remarks that are undesirable, but apparently do not lead to action for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u104	At the beginning of my speech I referred to the importance of the dignity of the Chamber, the institution which we have to protect, cherish and defend together here. This is also about the way in which we choose our words here, about the pitch and about the way in which we address each other and treat each other. The context, the situation is all-enabled. In addition, I can choose words you wouldn't choose, and vice versa. But I'm always trying to balance that dignity and how I feel you should be seeing each other, talking to each other and talking to each other. If I use a word or an expression that someone does not feel comfortable with, then he or she can stand up and make a personal statement about it and appeal to me. I hope that happens, too. I'll do the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u105	I will ask the question again, because I have received a nice answer, but not to the question. The question is whether Mrs Hermans thinks there can be value in learning the familiarity when things are being said that cannot be accepted. A hypothetical example. If a ruler is in box K, well, it's not a hypothetical example at all, I'm just going to give a real example. If a minister is in Box K and says that we are certainly not a narcostate in the Netherlands, because, if it were, there would be an exotic ruler, then I hear very clearly that this is a racist remark. The question is whether Mrs Hermans hears that too. In such cases, it did not seem to be the case. So my question is whether Mrs Hermans thinks it can be valuable to learn to recognise that this is also an undesirable comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mrs Simons asks me if we want to develop skills. I think it is about being alert and listening to what is said and spoken against each other. And yes, it is undoubtedly true that statements have crept into the parliamentary debate in recent years and that the border has been pushed up a little. That is exactly why we are standing here now. That is also exactly why I am calling on myself, of course, and my group, where we have also discussed this as such, to listen to what is being said and listen to what is happening. If we feel that someone is crossing a line by our standards, according to what we think is normal and decent, or that someone is going too far, you get up and you make a comment about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mrs Simons, third question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u108	No, it's a personal fact. How many interruptions have we received from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u109	Well, about six, I said. But I'm not gonna let the CPB charge them. It also depends a little on the length of the interruptions, but in general it will not be seven or eight today, I fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to ask the question one more time, exactly the same question. Does Mrs Hermans think it would be good if 150 Members of Parliament were to teach the skills to conduct cross-border behavior verbally, as well as to learn to recognize their physical identity, even where it does not affect them themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u111	I'm gonna give the same answer for the third time. 150 MPs here have a responsibility to guard the dignity of the Chamber. 150 Members of Parliament have the responsibility to use language and words that match the position we have here. 150 Members of Parliament have the responsibility and duty to listen to what is being said. And if something is said, even if it is not about them personally, but about a colleague who goes too far and crosses a line, then they have the responsibility and duty to stand up and say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u112	Thank you. I call Mr Dassen. He will speak on behalf of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about ways of dealing in the Chamber. I stand here as party leader of Volt with a double feeling. Because you've all been able to read and hear why in the last few weeks. In our party, too, there is a matter of which the beating heart is the way of dealing with each other. Mr. Chairman. It is my belief that we cannot change the political and administrative culture that we have been talking to each other about for a long time, with words and debates alone. Talking passionately about the need for change does not change yet. I believe that we should act more firmly together and take action. The actions of the Chamber have an impact on society. At the moment when people in this Chamber tolerate or even practice insults, harassment and intimidation, that has an effect on the people outside this building. They can feel legitimized to follow that example. This puts more or less pressure on our collective freedom. In order to reverse this trend as quickly as possible, the Court must continue to make the highest demands on itself. The Rules of Procedure state: "Every member behaves in a manner which respects each other and does not prejudice the dignity of the Chamber." For the past year, I have often been surprised by this. Mrs van der Plas had a very nice list of these at the beginning of the debate. Inside, there is no form of intimidation, either within the Chamber or outside groups. That is why we must stand up when this happens, and we must support the President when she sets clear limits to it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij's report contains a lot of good recommendations to strengthen our position. This one takes Volt to heart. It asks us to deal with the content again rather than with the likes on Twitter and interruptions as speaking texts. Mr Van der Staaij also states in his report that the use of good practices also means that we 'do not debate through the second screen of social media'. Yet we see that scoring through cut films of contributions and interruptions is part of the daily course of events. That is why I am asking the President and Mr Van der Staaij whether it would be possible to allocate perhaps three minutes for interruptions rather than all kinds of interruptions. We in the Chamber must also think together about how we want to deal with this. I would therefore also ask Mr Van der Staaij, for example, how he views the joint drafting of a code of conduct for this purpose, which does justice to the naturally far-reaching freedom of expression of political officials. For example, you can think of sharing whole motions instead of just a screenshot of the texts. Or: don't share any wrong or half-information about colleagues we're debating with. Indeed, let's avoid that it's just about the fuss about the fuss. Finally, Mr President. I would like to call on all my colleagues to return to the heart of the debate and to fulfil our role as representatives of the people. We could bump into the contents. In fact, this collision is more than desirable in this Chamber. But that must be done on the basis of mutual respect and always with the thought that we are here to move this country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u114	Thank you. I call Mrs Simons. It will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is almost a year that I have the honour to call myself a Member of Parliament, a representative of the people. Like any person within this Kingdom who has a high regard for radical equality, solidarity and justice, I too have had to look at how in recent years the limit of what is still respectful or admissible has been stretched further and further. I've seen how the PVV set a standard and how the Chamber followed. How that party makes more and more shocking and xenophobic statements, which means that less radical but equally dangerous ideas are normally found by us here as members of the House of Representatives. You only have to shout enough often that the Netherlands is supposedly full, and before you know it it is an accepted fact that migrants bear the blame for the housing crisis. You only have to say often enough that foreigners are a danger to Dutch culture, and before you know it, compulsive corona tests are taken on refugees, to force them back to the country from which they had to flee. You also have to yell enough at women who wear headscarfs, and before you know it, their right to self-determination is restricted under the guise of security and neutrality in public space. Mr. Chairman. The stretching of the boundary of what is respectful or admissible has translated directly into a politics in which the other, the migrant, the Muslim, the immigrant, is always the scapegoat. This policy has become more and more reasonable, partly thanks to the long-standing parties in this Chamber, because there is a repetition of power. Repetition ensures acceptance: acceptance of racism, xenophobia, inequality. This is happening not only here in this Chamber, but above all in society, with all the disastrous and inhumane consequences. That concludes with regard to BET1, because yes, Mr President, I am speaking to the President of the Chamber. Or let me do it nicely: President, the President of the Chamber wrote that the parliamentary debate is also marked by a constant tension between the right to freedom of expression in the Chamber and the guarantee of an open and fair exchange of views. We also support and support this freedom of expression, but as far as we are concerned there is also a clear limit. That border lies with racism, fascism, sexism and validism. And, yes, one can either support freedom of expression or, at the same time, think that we need to step up our efforts against all that is being spit in society from behind this chair. The idea that these two interests are contradictory is therefore in his misconception that racism is an opinion and that sexism can be funny. I and others here in this Chamber have said it before: racism is not an opinion, sexism is not funny, validism is harmful and I can go on for a while. Racism is an objective reality. That makes the limit of freedom of expression very clear. Mr. Chairman. The role of the Chamber cannot be underestimated under any circumstances, because it cannot be accepted that citizens, fellow chamber members, political group members and other chambermates should be ridiculed for their faith, origin or colour. However, this is still allowed too often here. What lesson should society draw from that? That is why I asked the Bureau about the tools it has to evaluate a Presidency, whether this is actually being done and how often it happens between itself. Do we, as Members of Parliament, perhaps have a role to play in this? My party has also asked why there are no internal complaint procedures, especially in the context of the appointment of a government commissioner for sexual and violent behaviour. Isn't it strange that we invest in national frameworks, but safeguard ourselves from the need for such frameworks? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this house should be safe, safe for everyone, safe for everyone who is in the Netherlands. This house should be the example of the safe society in which we want to live and which we are trying to shape here. It starts here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u116	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I call Mr Segers. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't see Mrs. Van der Plas have another interruption. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mrs Simons, for this contribution. I'm gonna do my best. I probably also make comments that I really don't have the idea that they can't be or that people are hurt or whatever. It happens. I don't think that happens maliciously all the time. I would like to touch on what Mrs Simons said about a safe environment, because I do have a bit of a problem with that. Sometimes in a debate I or others sometimes make comments that Mrs Simons does not agree with at all. That's okay, because that's why we're in a debate. Mrs Simons is always laughing, and I have also mentioned this in my contribution. Personally, I feel like I'm in an unsafe working environment. That loud laughing then stops me from debating it further, because then I think: oh God, we'll have a whole thing in a minute; I don't feel like it at all, so forget it. I am opposed to that, because I believe that, in principle, you should be able to say everything to each other in all openness and in all freedom, within the limits of the appropriate. My question to Mrs Simons is: is she aware that she does and that other people in the debate can stop the debate from being conducted in a normal way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u118	Thank you to Mrs van der Plas for this question. You should know that I have developed a number of survival mechanisms. One of them is laughing not to cry. One of them is to assess a situation like this, in a way that's safer for me. For I will tell you, Mrs van der Plas: if I had to get hurt with every indecency, I wouldn't get hurt at all. So if you see me laughing, it's often because I think, "Oh, what a weird remark." Or I'm like, "Hey, here we go again." You suffer from this; you have told me this. I'll take it into account. I'd like to tell Mrs. Van der Plas that I've never laughed at her before. We've developed a respectful relationship. I do not blame Mrs van der Plas or others for sometimes saying something that can be difficult for me or anyone else. I do not think we are talking today about 'harassment', about uncomfortable remarks, about hearing things that you totally disagree with. In my view, we are talking today about structural practices, about the search for a way of living together here and getting parliamentary work done, so that the rest of the Netherlands will benefit. I think it's a good example. Because when we go to the core, when we talk about whether you can still laugh at a remark, I hope that we will eventually come to the real more serious abuses that happen here. So Mrs Van der Plas says to me here: I feel uncomfortable and I feel that I am being laughed at. I can say that I've never laughed at you before. In fact, I laugh with you a lot. A lot of people find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u119	Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yeah, a lot of people find that incomprehensible. Don't you get that feedback, Mrs. Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mrs van der Plas, I must point out that this will be your sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u122	Shall I finish, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u123	Well, you've already given a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u124	So the bottomline is: I don't think we're talking here today about the moments when people laugh because you don't have the room to react through the microphone. I think we are talking about structurally more serious matters here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mrs Van der Plas asks her sixth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u126	Sure. Maybe I misspelled it, but I don't feel like I'm being laughed at either. But there will be laughs out loud, and that will slow me down to go further into it. But we'll talk about it together. Mrs Simons and I do have a wonderful relationship, because we started a bit of a fight and now we are actually getting along pretty well. Only, I don't understand why people find it incomprehensible that Mrs Simons can laugh at me. I think a lot of people can laugh with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u127	The prejudice I sometimes encounter about Mrs Van der Plas is not that she has no sense of humor. People understand that Mrs. Van der Plas can be laughed at. However, many people find it difficult to understand, this is a serious topic that we are looking here in an area of such great political differences, also for ways of doing our parliamentary work together. That is certainly true when it comes to opposition within this Chamber, but also in the broadest sense. In the Chamber we must jointly check the cabinet. And I do hear people saying, "Hey, but this Van der Plas guy has very different ideas, don't he? Yeah, that's right, and a lot of those ideas I'm gonna fight with my hand and my tooth. I assume the same applies to Mrs Van der Plas. But I think we politicians sometimes fall into the trap of creating contradictions. This trap often arises around elections, such as the forthcoming municipal elections, but of course also around the national elections with which Mrs Van der Plas and I entered the Chamber. I think it is good to emphasise substantive contradictions in election time, so that voters know who they can choose and why. Here, in this room, we are one Chamber, one Opposition, one Coalition, and we have to worry about each other. A lot of people in this country don't always understand that. That is also the reason why they do not always understand that Mrs Van der Plas and I can have a cup of coffee together, that Mr Van der Staaij and I can have very good substantive discussions with each other, and for example that I will soon be a guest on a youth day of the SGP. These are all things where I think: we as politicians can explain this better too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u129	That was him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u130	I call Mr Segers. He will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u131	There are nice notes from the President and the Van der Staaij committee on the table here. I'd like to thank them for that. In fact, I agree with Mr Klaver that it may also be more acute when we talk about how we interact and how we debate. This certainly concerns middle parties, who are still in a coalition country and sooner or later come across each other again and have to work together. Then you may be able to keep each other a bit ideologically, while that is not healthy at all. For, Mrs Simons, we must not only distinguish between ourselves in election time, but also here in this Chamber we must show where the ideological differences lie. Then there are also parties who say that they are not aimed at a compromise at all and that they do not have to work together at all sooner or later. They can still be parties that are very respectful of others and still respect the democratic rule of law. The real problem lies with the parties that are outside the debate. I think that was what Mrs Leijten was referring to. This is a form of political nihilism, a form of politics of scorched earth, in which the focus is not on the content but on the persons, with an unstoppable hunger to constantly seek out and push forward those boundaries. This form of political enterprise is disastrous and radiates against all of us in a negative way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u132	I'm going to ask you about debates we're having in the Chamber. I hope that Mr Segers understands that I am not concerned with the question of why you supported or did not support this at the time; that is not at all the issue. What I often see when a debate is called for is that coalition parties say they have to wait for a letter from the cabinet, for example on purchasing power figures. While you're not the same, just as you're sketching. How wonderful it would be if, before the cabinet comes up with a position, you could have spoken to each other as a Chamber, if you had a solid debate on this. Then a cabinet takes a decision in all wisdom and then we see if there is a majority in the Chamber to support that policy. May I ask why I still hear very often, also from the coalition, that there must be a wait until the cabinet has taken a stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u133	The formal answer is: the government rules, the chamber controls. So: Cabinet, come up with your plans; we give the judgment. The less formal answer is that there are differences within that coalition. Sometimes you have to settle it before you have a direction where it could land, without being completely seared. Of course, we are talking about purchasing power and the energy bill. That's top of the line with all of us. At the same time, it is not entirely feasible to discuss everything in a coalition in the total openness of a debate. Moreover, there was broad support here yesterday for the request to wait for these letters to be debated. I believe that this debate should also be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u134	It seems to be this particular debate, but I am asking because Mr Van der Staaij or his committee indicates that it would be good if there were more major debates. We have agreed this very often, but these major debates always come after a letter from the cabinet. I understand the tension field. I am not saying this to judge you or the coalition parties, but I do see something here that I define as a problem: the Chamber seems to be able to debate only if there is a position of the cabinet. I think that the position of the Chamber will be helped if the differences here in Parliament are clear, even without the cabinet having taken a formal position on anything. So it is clear what we want and what direction we want to go; I understand very well that you do not agree on that. Then comes the debate with the cabinet. I think that is what the debate and the focus are for. I just really hope that at least you but also the coalition parties are more open to trying this out at least. That is my specific question. That also lays down a responsibility to the opposition not to say, when you say something else, where has the unity gone? That's exactly what we don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u135	Yeah, we got that feedback once in a while. I do not want to fail myself, because there are already motions on the energy bill that say: look at the low incomes and the middle incomes. There is a motion from the coalition without any plans: look at the purchasing power, especially the purchasing power of the elderly. So those motions are already there. A motion on defence expenditure has also been tabled recently. Thus, the Chamber has already made guiding statements on major issues without a proposal from the Cabinet. In that sense, therefore, there are those opportunities and we are also aware of that opportunity. At the same time, I share Mr Klaver's hope of having more directional debates or more policy debates. That's actually still the hope I have. With new and emerging rulers, we now have major debates: which direction do you want to take? I see Mrs Leijten shaking her head a little skeptical: that is not the main thrust. But that is at least the hope I have: that those are also opportunities to really put your cards on the table. We are also doing this with the APB, the General Political Reviews, and the debate on the government statement. Then I think I should have the freedom, or perhaps the duty, to explain, perhaps I say it a little bullyingly why I am not a liberal and why I really have other ideas, but in that cooperation I come to agreements and try to do something good for the country. Indeed, we should be able to have more freedom in that. I would like to look with Mr Klaver for those possibilities. Mr. Chairman. I have three points. I don't want any threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u136	Oh, Mrs. Leijten has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u137	Oh, Mrs. Leijten. I hope it's not a threat!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u138	Well, Mr Segers, I don't think that's the issue between us. I think we feel the same way. But you just said, in a sense, that these are, in my opinion, the parties Mrs Leijten was referring to. I wonder what exactly you meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u139	You said in your contribution that there have been incidents that radiate into the entire parliament, which is not the whole parliament. A lot of MPs are doing their job seriously. I was referring to the politics of the scorched earth, a kind of political nihilism. That only plays on the person, seeks out the boundaries to push them only and does not, in my perception, make a constructive contribution to trying to make this country a little better. I thought you were referring to those incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u140	I've certainly said that, but there was also something behind it. That fuss pays off, but the fuss about the fuss also pays off. In fact, I find both of them detrimental to our Parliament, because the fuss about this kind of political blimp makes us only talking about ourselves and ultimately not about the problems that these parties address. We do by ridiculing some insertion... Threats aren't part of it, are they? I myself have gone too far in a debate. I'd love to take something back if I did. But I think by saying "but that's wrong" you also exclude noises from society. That's dangerous. That was my last question to the President. We say that when people say something here, they say it in society, but the opposite is true, isn't it? The House of Representatives is a mirror of society itself, so it's no wonder that that gets there. I think that we should be able to reflect in a debate of reflection like this. I think you have heard me correctly, but I did say something after what I think is important to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u141	Yes, I think that's a very good point. Why do I sometimes say some of the fuss about the fuss? Because it has a size, a form and a societal impact that directly leads to threats and that is really potentially socially disruptive. If we don't say anything, we'll actually say, "Oh, go ahead, go ahead." I don't want to say that. Where things are going so badly, I don't want to watch. So I'd like to say something about that. Mrs Leijten is quite right in saying that we need to look at what is the discontent behind it. There are people who can't tie their ends together anymore. There are people who don't have faith in politics. There are people there, Mrs Leijten, who know them very well, who have been hit by an affair in which the government stood against its own citizens, and who have lost confidence. With a fuss about the fuss, we will not get those people back, but we will get them back with fair policies and with a government that is serviceable. The atlas of the Netherlands that has left, I will not say that it has been framed above my bed and was at the heart of my contribution and in Mr Heerma's debate on the government statement. If others read it, they'll recognize it, too. Because then we see the map of the Netherlands in front of us with ink black edges. There's no bad people there. Those are people who have lost hope and trust. I want to win it back, but not just by looking away from fuss that's nothing but political nihilism that destroys something I don't want to break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u142	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u143	In order to prevent people from thinking that I have a solid debate with Mr Segers, it is not. I would like to make the point that I do not share Mr Segers' party with the parties that are organizing the noise or the fuss about the fuss. In addition, I had other parties in my head. Just because Mr Segers said 'the parties that Mrs Leijten designates', I wanted to make clear what he meant by that. But I think that the questions that Mr Segers has just asked about what you do with excluding political parties and whether you can do that with elected representatives of the people, is important in our democracy. I'm very much on that trail. So for anyone who thinks we disagree now: I think we are much more in agreement than it seems. But you might have known that. I just wanted to make sure you heard right that I said something after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u144	After my call for a much more focused debate on content, Mrs Leijten comes forward specifically to say that we are in complete agreement!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u145	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u146	I had three points. I can be brief about the first. I would like to join Mr Paternotte when it comes to crossing the border in the event of threats. That is the first point. And to include this explicitly as a reason or reason for the President to say: but now I want to intervene; this really goes too far. Hence the D66 proposal to give that power to the President. Because it affects freedom of speech. People feel less free to say something, where we stand here in a place where you should have all the freedom of speech, within the limits of the law. Two, I'd like a better room. We've been debating ourselves too much. We've been too busy with ourselves for the past year. And it's all not pretty. But now we need to work on a better parliament. I have five points which I would like to draw from both documents, which I would like to put to the President with the question of how to respond. That regular day of legislation appeals to me. We are co-legislators; we must take this seriously. That's gotta be better quality. Would it indeed not be good to have a special day for that? Making greater use of the rapporteurship. Especially now that we have more groups, and smaller groups, we should not all invent the wheel, so that could indeed help. I think that's a good proposal. We need to be able to value commitments better in debates. So we often very much want a motion to have only one motion, so that we have recorded it in black and white, while in an AO we all note those commitments neatly. Could this not be done in a plenary debate too, so that we really deal with commitments much more seriously? Sometimes I really have the fear: well, that is said so loosely now, "I tell you so." Well, then you better hope it happens. But if we record it in black-and-white in a register, and I think that register is going to be there, then we can fall back on it, and then we also have to make fewer motions. I agree with Mr Hermans' question about the Bosman Committee. It is very uncomfortable that we have a committee for this implementation and also for the quality of legislation, which has done a good job, but we have not been able to debate it. Shouldn't we do the same with the committee? Can't we organize that? Then the final point. We need to assess the value of interruptions. I do not really want the President to be there just to count the number of interruptions, but I do want the President to ensure that the three interruptions we have are enough to really get an answer to the question we are asking. For now a ruler can give a weak answer three times, it is said "you are through your interruptions" and he is gone. Finally, Mr President, if I may. An open question to my colleagues, and perhaps also to society behind it. If we look at the way in which we also represent the Netherlands quantitatively, the Netherlands is actually dangling at the bottom of the line in European terms, if you look at the number of MPs per 100,000 inhabitants. We simply have too few Members of Parliament from a European perspective. The Dutch electorate is quantitatively the worst represented by all voters in Europe. The last enlargement of the Chamber was in 1956, when the Netherlands had 11 million inhabitants. We have almost 7 million now, and still 150 MPs. In the meantime, we are seeing an increase in the number of directors and the number of officials, so the power ratio varies. And especially if the number of political groups increases once again and the size of political groups decreases, it is helping. It's an open question, but it's a question we need to ask now. We're in the middle of a renovation, so if we want something, I'd say we should do it now. If you want to add 50 seats... Well, there's got to be an architect somewhere. But I'd like to ask that question anyway. And it has been asked now, but it is an open question. It's a real search for me, too. Wouldn't it be good to look at that, too, and to weigh that up in all seriousness? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u147	Thank you. I call Mr Heerma. He will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for her letter and for the fact that she has put her neck behind a subject which concerns us all, I think, and which is difficult to get moving. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and his committee for the report they have written. I agree with the comments that have been made explicitly on that legislative day. In fact, Mrs Leijten did it implicitly, with her almost out of her toes coming frustration about the fuss about the fuss, while there is so much good work. I also agree with Mrs Leijten's remark that the report also deserves to be discussed further in the BZK committee. But I would like to focus my contribution mainly on the letter from the President. Our democracy and our rule of law are the foundations of our freedom. They are thus also the foundation of peaceful coexistence, in a society without fear and oppression. But that's not self-evident. So democracy also requires maintenance and respect for the opinion of the other, which has also been discussed here, in the truth of the theories that we are discussing here. It also requires the responsibility of all of us in this house to contribute to a just and peaceful society. When preparing this debate, I also had to think about the Atlas of Afraid Netherlands, which shows that confidence in politics and the rule of law is under pressure and 15% of the Netherlands has now completely dropped out and feels that politics is no longer there for them. In 1934, Menno ter Braak wrote that resentment in society will be stirred up if democracy does not live up to its promise of equality. There is also a cause for polarization and hardening at this time. The discontent that exists in part of society is also a loud cry for greater solidarity, community spirit and solidarity. I think Mrs Leijten is right: we should not forget that this is our mission. At the same time, I also think this debate on ourselves is important. What happens in society, you hear back in this parliament. That is why we must be careful not to stir this up. Once again, it is not about the whole Chamber, but part of the Chamber can be used by the expressions that stir up discontent by the tone chosen and the techniques used. The hardening of social debate in society has been visible on social media for some time now. In corona time, we've all seen that. This increasingly leads to intimidation and even to threats of violence, against politicians, against administrators, but also against scientists, journalists and others who interfere in the social and political debate. In addition, it seems as if the proverbial short fuse can become a little shorter over and over again. The derailed hardening sometimes of the debate here is not only undesirable from prosperity and civilisation, Mrs Van der Plas started with it, but also contributes to the uproaring of that resentment. We all have to be alarmed when we hear that one in eight council members now indicate that they are threatened, that in some municipalities there are no aldermen left from their own congregation, because of fear of that threat, and that there are permanent police houses in front of the houses of directors, or that there are now people with torches at the doors of politicians. At the end of her letter, the President writes that security services have also indicated that the way in which the debate is conducted here has a direct relationship with it and that this contributes to the atmosphere of intimidation and violence. I would like to give a further explanation from the President. What exactly is she getting from the security services? It also states that it considers that further investigation is necessary. What kind of research is that? Is that running? 'Cause I think everyone understands that this isn't possible. Intimidation and threats smother the democratic debate. If scientists and journalists no longer dare to express themselves because dog whistles are being expressed here in the debate, it is also bad for the democratic rule of law and its functioning. I see, in addition to the good proposal of D66 and the Christian Union, that the Rules of Procedure should be adapted to this, i.e. to include as an explicit ground in the Rules of Procedure the inciting of threats and intimidation, which incites democratic debate. However, if the President wishes to examine this further first, I would like to provide a further basis for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u149	Mr Klaver has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u150	The Rules of Procedure actually give quite a lot of room to intervene. This debate is also intended for the President to listen to how much room we give the President. The VVD colleague mentioned that grey area. And you're actually saying it now; it's about that dog whistle with which there are suspicions towards scientists and judges, suspicions that incite violence; even though it's not explicit, we all know it because we hear it ringing in our ears. Is that also the time when you say: if the President intervenes, then that has our full support?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u151	I have a short answer and a long answer and I'm going to give them both. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the grey area. The answer is yes. I have expressed my support for the letter and I believe that the President should be able to intervene if there are limits to be exceeded and that the President should have the confidence to have the support of the Chamber. I believe that, in recent weeks, we have seen a number of examples of this somewhat tighter approach in both the President-in-Office and the Vice-Presidents in debates. I welcome that. However, I am also in favour of explicitly codifying a number of matters in the Rules of Procedure, because I also know ourselves. I also want to prevent it from becoming part of the discussion. I'll give you a fictional and a real example. The fictional example is that in a heated debate Pietje is going to say at some point that the President of Klaasje should take the floor and that the President will be supported in advance if she does so, while Klaasje is going to say that Pietje should be taken away, which is supported in advance. I think that is the first risk, because we all know that debates sometimes derail from both sides. I have another specific example, which is also about the SGP. Mr Van der Staaij is now in trade-K, but I remember that Mr Bishop was the spokesperson for the SGP in that debate. That is a debate that we held a few years ago in a committee room on the defenceable democracy, on the concept of George van den Bergh, in the sense that in a democracy you must not accept that it is being abolished democratically. That's what this is about. That debate therefore focused on the question of where the limit lies with regard to Article 2:20 Civil Code and which organizations you may ban if it is their objective and action to overthrow democracy. This was therefore about extremely nationalist organisations, in particular Hizb ut Tahrir, which wanted to overthrow the democratic rule of law. But what happened in that debate? Several groups said: if we have to ban anti-democratic parties, then we have to start with the SGP because of the women's position. I believe that in such a fundamental debate there is a mistake, because it is not about the SGP when it comes to overthrowing democracy. I see that Mr Klaver disagrees with me on this. He may explain that in such a way. Then it is perhaps strange that he has agreed that Mr Van der Staaij is running this committee. Although I agree that we should also give the President that confidence in that grey area, the fact that these debates can be derailed means that I would prefer to look at these very fundamental things as well as whether we should not include in the Rules of Procedure any more specific rules that might fall back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u152	I do not know whether you agree, but at least your question has been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u153	I'll give you another answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u154	I have a long answer and a much longer answer. No, very clear. What I really want to make clear is this. I'm fine with saying we're codifying a little more. However, I do not think that waiting for that is enough, because the situation is acute. In the meantime, we're in a situation that we have to deal with. For that period, I say we need to intervene. I understand Mr Heerma too, that he is prepared to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u155	Agreed. I'm glad we can find each other on this because I think the need is great. Then let us avoid, as I pointed out in my first example, calling here for the interrupting microphone 'President, you need to intervene' and 'President, you need to intervene', otherwise we are going to start on the wrong side of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u156	Thank you. Mr Eerdmans has the floor and he will speak on behalf of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the note and the report. We read it with attention. In this Chamber, we have an example. We're being watched. Whether you are left or right or somewhere in the middle, a debate can be firm and hard and basically everything must be able to be said. When colleagues are attacked personally or when a direct call for violence is made, the President may, as far as we are concerned, give a warning. On repeated occasions, the President may turn off the microphone if necessary. But we should not ban words here or subsequently remove them from the Acts, because it is strange to ban words such as 'criminal tribunal', 'do normal' or 'civil disobedience', whereas you do allow words such as 'racist', 'fascist' and 'xenophobic scum' to exist here every week. The question is, of course, whether you want to say everything to make your political point. We like to stay above the belt with JA21. A party calls it "racist" or may your colleague "stupid," we think, but usually it says more about the sender than about you. We regularly see heated heads here at the interrupt microphone in response to an input. Then there's a half an hour of pastries, and eventually no one takes a word back. Then there is a roaring movie with accompanying lyrics on YouTube. It often happens here that a speaker is asked to take back words in a high tone, and whether it is true that he has said this or that. That is then confirmed, and then the world is too small again because it should not be said. The continuous reaction, the demand of apology, the suspension and so on, is precisely choir on the mill of parties who would like to shock it. And that really isn't just FVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u158	I thought Mr Eerdmans was from the party JA21, but he mentions FVD here. Anyway, that's my confusion. But I'd like to talk to Mr. Eerdmans about those roaring movies. For example, videos are recorded during a committee debate. Relevant context is then cut out. Then it is roaring, covered with roaring lyrics and design, for example on TikTok. Is that the kind of video Mr. Eerdmans is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u159	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I would also like to make one comment. I said "FVD." I was not talking about ourselves, but about the fact that there is always a lot of attention to FVD. That is sometimes justified, but I think that many others in this Chamber are doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u160	I think that Mr Eerdmans' party is doing the same thing. I refer to a committee debate in which Mr Eerdmans said that he had an understanding of employers who did not want to hire people of Moroccan origin, because they have had an annoying experience with such a person. I replied to Mr Eerdmans that, according to that same logic, it would be perfectly normal and logical to send all white men into politics home, because what goes wrong in politics so far often happens under the guidance of white men. It was a sarcastic projection, to make Mr Eerdmans realize that his logic does not make sense. What happens next? The roaring videos that Mr Eerdmans so glowfully rejects here were used to make the viewer believe at home that I claimed without any context that all white men should go home. During that debate, we made it very clear that my reaction reflected Mr Eerdmans' statements. So I think it is wonderful to reject, in a debate like today's, roaring videos and quotes taken out of context, but should Mr Eerdmans not start with his own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u161	Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u162	I'm not done, Mr. Chairman. I ask that all the more so because this kind of video for many people in this country is a reason to threaten, to send death threats to my home address, to harass people who are dear to me. It has a lot of implications when you put that kind of roaring movies online.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u163	I don't mind movies getting loud. I shall return to that debate in a moment, which I remember very well. I think it was on the fourth floor in the lodge. But I don't have a problem with movies. I have something against the fact that a whole circus is being set up here and people are blaming each other, with which they think they can solve a problem, after which it continues cheerfully on YouTube, because in this case it was FVD in the interest of extrapolating that on Twitter. I find that difficult, because then I think: what are we doing here; it's actually just a play. We were both in the video you're talking about. It was absolutely not without context. We were talking about racism, about discrimination in the labour market, I thought. In five minutes you dragged white, black, all the colors of the rainbow again, while it was not about that at all. You came up with the point of white men. Yes, I made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u164	Well, I'm not, am I? I'm the chairman. Mrs. Simons came...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u165	Yeah, sorry. Mrs. Simons showed up with the white men. Indeed, they should all be removed from important positions and then we would see the difference. That's what brought you up to speed. That was crystal clear in the video. You're gonna have to do it with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mrs Simons, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u167	At least I'm not standing here lying. I know the Acts and the videos can confirm that Mr Eerdmans had something to do with his understanding of the fact that if people have become disappointed in someone belonging to a particular group, they will not want to have anything to do with other people in that group; that makes perfect sense. That's for him to find. That's his political opinion. It belongs to Mr. Eerdmans. That's not what I'm talking about. I am talking about the innocence... I am talking about the fact that Mr Eerdmans is here today saying that he rejects that kind of behaviour, especially when it comes to other parties. He explicitly mentions FVD, but that he ignores the fact that his own party uses that kind of practice and places that kind of video, with all the consequences of that. I would like to ask Mr Eerdmans whether he might still want to reflect on the consequences of such a film, as I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u168	It's about shocking the shock. We're not in on that. We relentlessly expose what you have said to me here in a debate on the fourth floor. I thought you crossed a line there, putting things on my mind, namely white-black thinking, racist thinking, while it was about the causes of discrimination. That's what we were talking about. I thought that was a good discussion. That's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. That's what I've just started. But you put me in the position that I'm trying to extrapolate that into an account. So that's not true. It is true that you must stand before your words, Mrs Simons. You blame me for all sorts of things, which I try to make clear to you. The fact that you sometimes drive a crooked skate in a debate, which I am now trying to finish my point is indeed made clear, yes. As JA21, we will certainly do the same. Are you not going to tell me that we're trying to twist things or that we're lying, because I'm just trying to tell you that I think it's under the belt. We'll expose things, yeah. We will continue to do so and not just with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u169	You have had six questions, Mrs Simons, but you were addressed, so I will give you a brief opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to make a point of order or a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u171	That's okay, too. You can do both. I'm gonna judge what it is. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u172	If Mr Eerdmans speaks to me very directly here in this debate, in this tone, in this context, then I certainly take that offense and I am very annoying to say that I am not even threatening to say that. I would therefore ask the President to remind Mr Eerdmans to speak through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u173	I just did, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u174	You forgot about it once, and that's why I'm pointing it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u175	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We're all doing our best, Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u176	It is not a reproach, but it is a request, Mr President, precisely in this debate, in which we talk about ways of dealing. That Mr Eerdmans here denies that such a video is cut, taped and placed is up to him. If we are having a debate like today, I would ask Mr Eerdmans to do it purely. Otherwise, we will have had a very nice debate and we will have had some nice riots, but we will not be able to move on to the next stage, in which everyone in this Chamber treats each other with respect. In that context, it is at least my party's policy not to put that kind of videos, but just to make the contribution, so that people can choose for us on the basis of the content. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u177	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u178	Yes, the contribution is usually underneath it, I must tell you. Then we cut a video up there, in which we sit the headlines. That's exactly what everyone does, I think. In this way, you make it clear what is at the heart of an argument. Sometimes you show a clash, because we sometimes have one, Mrs Simons. I don't think that's a problem. I can enjoy it, too. Mr. President, where was I? In the President's note, it happens to be seen that rude language is the cause of the withdrawal of people who are following our parliamentary debate. I can imagine something about that in itself, but it should not be too boring and too clean here either. However, we would like to see a bit of bold politicians, mostly with the British House of Commons as an example. I think that, in addition to our forms of association, there are other reasons for disconnecting in the living rooms, namely the ex ante exclusion of parties from a formation, the absconding of simple questions or the systematic blocking or ignoring of debates that the opposition requests. Mr. Chairman. We are certainly concerned about the increasing intimidation and threats of politicians. It is not normal for all group chairmen to be monitored at their homes at this time. So times have changed quite a bit and the limits of the immoral are further stretched. However, in this context, too, I think we should simply ignore many of the trolls and snunks that send us inflammatory emails or letters, or perhaps send back a friendly thumb or thank you, but certainly not reveal it on our Facebook or Twitter account, because that will feel like an encouragement to most of these idiots. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the role of the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I am looking at Mrs Bergkamp, but also at you today, because she is not enviable. If you intervene, it is not good and if you do not intervene, it is often not good. So how do you normalize the debate? I think everyone in this Chamber is setting the bar at a different height. For example, if someone accuses me of xenophobic dung or something like that nonsense, I personally do not care about Siberian, but that could be completely different for a colleague. In short, setting frameworks and standards for what can and cannot be said is almost impossible. That is why we say: let everyone speak, do not forbid words, do intervene in direct personal attacks and calls for violence and leave it to the viewer and the electorate to judge the behaviour of all of us in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u179	Thank you. I call Mr Bishop. He will speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I hesitated for a moment about how I'd start this contribution. I have decided to take the risk that I will be blamed for playing down things very badly. We're going back to 1854. In trade-K, the Secretary of War was called "Forstner," a general at the time. At the interrupting microphone even though they didn't have it at the time, the MP Van Zuylen of Nijevelt stands. He treats the minister in a way he doesn't like. He speaks words such as "the Minister makes sure of mystification." General Forstner doesn't change his mind for a moment and pulls the sword half out of the scabbard and demands that satisfaction be done. The only way to do that is with a duel on a gun. With a lot of pain and difficulty they have calmed the both heated moods. It didn't come to a duel. Why am I telling you this? To indicate that all kinds of fierce and inappropriate debates in the political arena are actually of all times. But I'm also telling it to add another story to it. That is Thorbecke's performance. He was then outgoing minister, Prime Minister we would say now. He then discussed in the Chamber how to act as a Member of Parliament. He advocated that Members of Parliament should be parliamentary gentlemen. He apologized for the use of that English word, in a good tradition by the way. Today, of course, you would add "parliamentary ladies" to it. I think it's good to underline that. As parliamentary ladies and gentlemen, you do indeed have an example. You can't exactly pin it down and limit it, but it's very useful. He added something to it. He also said: because of the controlling task, words should not be taken personally too quickly. So it does work both ways. For example, the accusation that someone cannot be trusted has a different load in parliament than in the street, than in society, than in social relations with each other. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the President, the President of the Chamber, has looked again at the rules. It is perhaps more important that she insists on each of us being aware of that particular responsibility that you have as a representative of the people. Colleagues have already referred to it. I agree. Can we promote this more through, for example, more rituals, customs or symbols at the time of accession as MPs? You would also almost want a classical monarch's mirror, as in the past was raised as a prince to later become king, but then for parliamentarians. Instead of focusing on borders, there should be more attention to parliamentary virtues and etiquette. For only setting boundaries could give rise to the suggestion that if you name everything exhaustively, it is neatly arranged. No, it's a lot more about the spirit you hang out with. How, for example, can we have a sharp debate without really seeking the limits of freedom of expression? The SGP does not want to reopen the discussion about the body register, but I would argue for an intermediate route. My specific question to the President-in-Office of the Council: does the President think that vulgar language and curses do not belong, for example, in the parliamentary business and the parliamentary books, the report? As far as we are concerned, the President is indeed sending out the signal: that does not give us a pass, so there must be room for it. Let me now turn to the results of the Van der Staaij working group. It's a good report. My question is short: can the President-in-Office indicate how and when the specific points that are to be made in it will be taken up? Mr. Chairman. I also have a question for Mr Van der Staaij. It may also be good to give more weight to the Presidency of the Chambers. That sounds like an interesting thought. Will Mr Van der Staaij give a little more colour when it comes to the question of what this role might look like? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u181	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg. He will speak on behalf of the Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all: it is a privilege and extremely important to be able to speak freely here in the Dutch Parliament. The terrible war against Ukraine shows that this is not self-evident. My group cherishes the democratic rule of law, because these citizens give a voice, because these citizens protect against the government but also because it is the most important condition for a peaceful society. We see that the rule of law is also under great pressure in the Netherlands. This was done, among other things, by the cabinet, which seriously violated citizens' rights, including in the surcharge scandal, but the rule of law is also under other pressure. Politicians are threatened and intimidated. That happens on the street, that happens in their own house, that happens on the social media and that happens here in the House of Representatives. Journalists are threatened and even attacked. We also see that the House is being used to undermine the foundations of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party wishes once again to express itself clearly and explicitly in favour of the democratic rule of law, and for everyone in this Chamber that should be absolutely self-evident. Each Member of Parliament has said at the swearing-in that it will abide by the Constitution and has sworn allegiance to the Constitution. Thus, for example, every Member of Parliament has sworn allegiance to Article 1, the prohibition of discrimination. I would also like to mention Article 4, which states that every Dutch citizen has the same right to elect elected representatives of the people and to stand for election as a representative of the people. It is clear that not only in this Chamber, but also outside this Chamber, on the streets, there can or may be threats, discrimination or racism on the social media. That is always, in any circumstance, unacceptable. At the same time, Members of Parliament have the constitutional right to make their points. That is extremely important and, of course, it will continue to be so. But some words are not acceptable. In doing so, our Rules of Procedure are the constitutionally established possibility of guarding and maintaining order in the Chamber, as the rule book to which we, as Members of Parliament, must adhere. I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and his committee for their contribution. My group supports the strengthened interpretation of insult and intimidation which the President is about to use, but we do have doubts about other points in those notes. In the note, racism and discrimination are implicitly regarded as something that may be unnecessarily grievanced, but discrimination is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. And making statements about which Members of Parliament would or would not have the right to sit here in Parliament are contrary to Article 4 of that Constitution. So this kind of thing is much more fundamental than just the question of whether or not something is grieving. That is really of secondary importance if you put it next to the Constitution. My question to the President is as follows: does she consider it her task not only to allow intimidating statements, but also statements that thus go against the Constitution or undermine the rule of law? And does the President agree with the Animal Party that statements that undermine the rule of law fall outside the scope of the debate? The President himself gave a few clear concrete examples in her note. Mr President, I will conclude. The democratic rule of law is above all else. That is where my group draws the line. Calls in the Chamber that undermine the rule of law, which are discriminatory, are by definition out of the order of any debate. My group supports a chairman who, on the basis of our own Rules of Procedure, does not tolerate the use of the Chamber to undermine the democratic rule of law or to make discriminatory statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u183	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, who will speak on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u184	Mr. Chairman. In February 2022, Putin brought the war to Europe with his invasion of Ukraine. The survival of the sovereign country of Ukraine is at stake. It is an attack on the democratic rule of law, on our way of living together, on freedom. Against that reality it felt rather uncomfortable to prepare this debate. However, like many colleagues, the Labour Party may think it is time for this debate to take place now, because this debate is also about how we defend our democratic rule of law against attacks from outside and within. Mr. Chairman. In this house too, there are attacks on democracy, the distrust in society between people is fed. Journalists, justice, science: their sincere intentions are questioned. The elected representatives of the people are intimidated. Groups of Dutch are excluded. Mr. Chairman. That is why I do not think that the main problem of this Chamber is the lack of decency or of manners, because the real problem is not the problem, but the meaning of words that are sometimes expressed here. It is not a question of how some parties express themselves, but of what they say. It is not the who they choose but the where they carry. Our response to the intransigence that autocrats want to impose on us is to strengthen the free debate, democracy and parliament. That is why it is good that you too want to have this debate. But a debate only on forms of communication does not do justice to the seriousness of the threat. The debate and our democracy deserve a better defence than a ban on words such as 'blasted fool' and 'idiot', although I will not use them so easily myself. That is why my question to the President-in-Office of the Council is: what does it need? Of course, she has already written a note, but what more does she need, except for our explicit support if she intervenes when the democratic rule of law is attacked, in order to prevent these attacks? The best answer to discontent and mistrust is better politics. That is why I am very grateful to Mr Van der Staaij and his committee for his report. I share his analysis that this Chamber should pay more attention to the quality of legislation. I have three questions for him. How do restrictions on the submission and introduction of motions and amendments relate to the constitutional position and task of individual representatives of the people? Does Mr Van der Staaij recognise that debating serious incidents can be valuable, because in this way we can improve the quality of implementation? Does he share the premise that the primary responsibility for providing good information rests with the cabinet? Mr. Chairman. I told you how important the answer to anti-democratic rhetoric is, not just procedural. It is up to us, democratically elected representatives of the people, to defend democracy better. It starts with a more resilient democracy. In better politics, with binding Swiss referenda, we can give people the confidence that their voices are being heard. With the granting of voting rights to young people from 16 years of age, the sound of the future sounds more invigorating in this Chamber. Our constituents expect us to respond to the greatest challenge of today: the deep division in our country. On a breeding ground of inequality and insecurity of life, discontent and mistrust can spread. It is only when we offer progress to all of us that solidarity can return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u185	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Van Dam Committee concluded that the fundamental principles of the rule of law had been violated and that this also affected the legislator. We have made a number of laws around 2002 and in the years after that, which have been worked out very hard for tens of thousands of parents. We've failed in controlling the government. I say "we" because I was in the Chamber at the time for 20 years. If we are talking today about our own functioning as a Chamber, that should have been the starting point for the debate. Are we, as a Chamber, capable of carrying out our core tasks, making laws and, when something happens, controlling the government? There are other questions. Do we have enough MPs? That question was just asked by the Christian Union. Is it better to work with rapporteurs if you have 19 or 20 groups? Those are very relevant questions. But I'd like to take a step back. I would like to ask the two people in Box K whether it would be time to have a group of former Chamber members and current Members of Parliament, with perhaps one international expert, see if we are able to carry out our core tasks. Because if such a tragedy and such a scandal can unfold for ten years, something is going to go terribly wrong in our democratic rule of law. The second problem arises in the control of European legislation. The person who saw this morning how the European corona evidence was doing saw that we were just too late. Whatever else you think of that corona evidence is irrelevant, we are unable to control what our government decides in the EU on behalf of us. I would have liked to have seen a little more reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the honourable Member who spoke about speaking time for splitters. I'll just say that we're having a very ugly event today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u187	I am really curious how Mr Omtzig, whom we know as a very experienced and passionate Member of Parliament, has found it as a person to be the subject of debates himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u188	I have found it extremely painful to see, while I was sick at home, twice a debate of more than 12 hours in which I was freely spoken of. A number of high-ranking people haven't had the guts to call me personally to this day, even if they've been lying in the Chamber, like the current Secretary of Defense. I'm just using these heavy words because they know damn well. It's no fun being a subject of debate here. It is also extremely inappropriate that the government itself, as is clear from the Cabinet minutes, said that I had to dim down, with the result that I cannot work in that group anymore and must continue here with half the speaking time and a quarter of the support. I have been banging on the door of all of you, group chairmen, for six months to say that this is not an honest way of dealing with my speaking time and my support. You defy 350,000 voters, but you've spent six months thinking about this, I'll tell the rest of the Chamber. I have found it painful and would like a reflection of the two people in box K on how they look back at it, because it is now said that there should not be talk of someone who is not in the Chamber. I was not in the Chamber at the time, and it was not just a single remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u189	Mr Omtzigt, like us, has split up. He asked me the question, and now he gets the question back from me. You have even less support than we do; at least we still have each other. How do you deal with that, as a loner, as a single pitter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u190	Well, it's painful. I have experienced it as very painful that I have contributed to the laws that have not worked. I was here to deal with the supplement laws. Right now, I can't hire policy staff. Those of you who have read laws know how incredibly difficult it is to go through all the details and how incredibly important it is that you have good support for them. I don't think I can do that core job. So I'm not saying I have to control all the laws, because you shouldn't want that as a loner; then that's just gone. But I believe that, like other Members of Parliament in one or two committees, I could participate properly in legislation. This is not possible with the current support. Everyone knows it here and everyone dives. Why did that become an important thing today? Because the judge has just decided that one of the groups sitting there should not throw another member out of the group, but that it has already been decided in the Bureau that it has been removed from the group. We have allowed it to come to the point that our rules are now so inconsistent internally that the judge decides that a member of the political group should return to the group and thus receive more support. That's how bad the rules that have been laid down here are. I have found it painful that in both reports I have seen here nothing has been said about split-ups, although I have, of course, raised it in the discussions I have had. You don't have to agree with that, but if you write a 50-page report, you could say that a number of Members of Parliament "have found something of this passionately."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u191	Thank you. Mr Segers also has an interruption. I am presenting this debate as, I believe, the fifth Vice-President, because the others were prevented and the President is sitting here. But I'm a member of the Presidium myself, and we haven't decided anything I know for sure about the split-off or anything like that. I haven't seen the judge's ruling, so I'm not saying anything about that either. I'd like to straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u192	I do know that Mr Omtzigt is very high. I get that. He is right to say that he has received a number of preferred votes which have given him a broad mandate. There is indeed the inconvenience, so that you have to do your job here with so little speaking time, with all kinds of limitations and with little support. I share that inconvenience. I'll jigsaw with that, but I'd like to present my dilemma. Where the Chamber has previously decided that we should deal critically with division, because they were people with a much smaller electoral mandate or almost no electoral mandate, and this measure has been taken, it is also uncomfortable to say that 350 000 votes is a reason to deal with it differently. Then you get a distinction between A- and B-Room members, where the one who leaves from a group has more right than the other. There's my inconvenience. I do not think it should take six months to discuss speaking time with each other and to deal with it in a generous manner. At least that would be my personal opinion. Around this split, we simply have a dilemma, namely that the Chamber said not so long ago: we have to deal with that critically. There was a proliferation that also caused a lot of discomfort. The solution of saying 'I have a broad electoral mandate' would once again make a distinction between one Member of Parliament and another. That's uncomfortable. I'm just sharing the dilemma. I would like a reflection from Mr Omtzigt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u193	If there is a distinction between A and B room members, I am currently a B room member. I have two minutes to speak. I am also trying to take part in a whole debate. But this debate should not be about me and certainly not in view of the Ukraine crisis and what is happening. But at the moment I cannot carry out my legislative task. That's the point. It's harder for me to control laws. It went wrong in the commas of the supplement law, in which there were far too many harsh penalties. You can't find it until you read a law like this for ten hours and see if it's true when this happens, what's happening in that law, what's the sanction that's on it and how it goes on. That's specialist work we're doing here. We don't show them enough. I also think that the way I left the group was not quite standard; I think that the Member who addressed me has said a few words about this and had great difficulty working with a number of others afterwards. If the cabinet is meeting over me to get me under it and these people were sitting in the Chamber as MPs at the time, then you cannot tell me that I could have functioned here in a normal way. For me, there was no other way but to get out of the group. I did everything I could not do. I hope that will be taken into account. I am just telling you that the judgment of the Court of Justice has just given rise to this, because now the judge is giving a ruling on who should be in which group. That has to do with things like speaking time and support. So the judge has said that Mrs Gündoğan should return to the Volt Group. That means she's getting double support again. That's what happens when we have rules that don't work. If rules don't work, then this is the body to correct those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u194	I do not go into the reasons why Mr Omtzigt left the group or the debate that preceded it. That's very painful, but I'm gonna leave that for a while. The question is indeed: can he function as a Member of Parliament? We have Mr Omtzigt high as a now independent MP, but also as a critical MP who is always focused on the content and in the past has more than fulfilled that role in many ways. Where there was a risk of a premium being split up, namely that you would get better support, there is now actually a punishment. The point is that the first is also a problem. Only, I understand Mr Omtzigt when he says: no, but the second is a problem, because now I cannot fulfil my role as a Member of Parliament as another Member of Parliament can. I understand that very well. I do think that something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u195	Thank you for that support. I understood that procedure at the time. I didn't quite agree with it back then. You used to get more support per person when you split up and the Chamber lost more money. I understand that this was abolished because it gave small groups a little advantage over large groups. I also understand that you do not completely reverse that and that no bonus is given that you would have as a one-man group. But I now get a quarter of what the Den Haan group gets and half the speaking time. That hinders me in my functioning. Now I've never been too miserable to work an hour extra, but it hinders me in making good laws. I even lie awake at night sometimes. That may sound stupid and more than dramatic, but I want those laws to be good. I have learned from the surcharge affair, from the surcharge scandal, that we have not done our core task. That is why I want to talk today about how we are going back to that core task. I would like to discuss whether we are doing our core job properly with the current resources and working methods. And I think I'm already answering the question. But the fact that, following the Van Dam Committee, we did not put that question here in one of the reports the following year is an omission. That is an omission that I would very much like to correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u196	Thank you. Mr Van Meijeren has the floor. He speaks on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Mrs Leijten has something to say first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u197	This is a debate on manners. We started this debate here at 1.10 p.m. There have been some exchanges of views and there are some different flavors. The Group of the Forum for Democracy is absent all afternoon. That group shows no respect by listening to what other Members of Parliament have to say. Two minutes before time Mr. Van Meijeren comes in to light what is likely to be his tirade. I'm not gonna listen to that. I find it disrespectful of him not to engage in the debate with us. And I actually think that the President should say something about that. But we are also discussing in this debate that we should not leave it in the hands of the President, but that the Chamber should appoint it itself. I think this is really weird. Five minutes, two minutes before time, they walk in. Members of Parliament who are in a much smaller group, or who are only in a group, are here all afternoon. I think you should do it that way. You don't have to participate in a debate, but if you sign up for a debate, you're there. I would like to point that out in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u198	That's clearly indicated. As President, I also agree with you that it would be good if you attended the whole debate and participated in it. It is also true that smaller groups can sometimes participate in several debates at the same time. I can't judge who's doing what, so I'm not gonna do it here either. I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren to make his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u199	Thank you. I shall come back to this point. So I will be happy to respond to that later. Mr. Chairman. While millions of Dutch people are deeply concerned about the war in which we are being messed up, do not dare to turn on the heating because of fear of the energy bill or have been on the waiting list for a home for ten years, while our country is in so many areas in a deep, deep crisis, today it is not about the content but about the tone of the debate. It's a mess that we have nothing better to do. FVD has long been planning not to participate in this debate because we can spend our time in so many other ways. At the same time, there is something at stake today, namely the freedom of expression of the parliamentarians. I wrote a thesis on it and I graduated on this subject. What has kept me most of this is that there is no place in the Netherlands, nowhere, where freedom of expression is more important than here in Parliament. That is even apparent from the Constitution. Rule 71 on parliamentary immunity states that we cannot be judged by a judge for what we say here in the House of Representatives. The reason behind this is that it is right here, where legislation is being made and where the government is being controlled, that all ideas can be discussed, that all arguments can be exchanged, that all information that may be relevant can be put on the table. The general limits on freedom of expression, as set out in the Code of Criminal Law and outside Parliament, would be too restrictive for us as representatives of the people to perform our function properly. The free parliamentary debate, this fundamental starting point of democracy, is under serious pressure, because since the new President took office, less than a year ago, there has been less and less talk here in Parliament. Of course, debates must be prevented from turning into chaos, blasphemy or screaming. The President has powers to maintain order for a reason. But the current President is using those powers to ban statements and to silence Members of Parliament because it does not like the content. An uncomfortable truth is that it is no longer allowed to express certain opinions, arguments or ideas in this Chamber, whereas those outside this Chamber are allowed. This therefore concerns statements which are not offensive or which are not punishable in any other way, but which are considered inappropriate by the President. In order to express different opinions and to really say what we think of something, we are slowly but surely forced to move to rooms in the country or to stages at manifestations, because that is where it can be said. This may sound like music to some people here today: the House of Representatives as a safe space where you no longer suffer from feelings of discomfort due to conflicting opinions that are too far from your opinion, never again shivering over your back, never again having to say a bad taste in your mouth, never having to say "I distance myself" again, just not getting into touch with views that you no longer want to hear. It is so easy, but I hope you realise that you are finally burying democracy with this dangerous development. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with a well-known quote by George Orwell: "If liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people things they do not want to hear." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas made a point. She has already had six interruptions, but I give her the opportunity to make a brief point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u201	Yes, I do have a point, because I hear Mr Van Meijeren say: while the whole world is on fire and no one can pay his bill, this is about the tone of the debate and not about the content. Well, it's been about the content here all afternoon. I would therefore like to know from Mr Van Meijeren what this debate has actually been about, because you seem to have followed it elsewhere. Mrs Leijten is quite right. I do not often step forward with your party, but I fully agree. It is simply insane that your party, not only in this debate but in several debates, does not show up to your own input. Then you guys pick up the stuff and walk away. Then you'll be back for a while when motions are filed. You'll run away again. And then you'll be back at the votes. When we talk about honesty and transparency, I would very much like to, and you may say what you want in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u202	Mr Van Meijeren can say what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u203	...I have no problem with that at all. But for the sake of honesty and transparency, I would like Mr Van Meijeren to say and explain why this party is hardly ever in a debate and hardly ever participates in the debates and their content. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u204	I would very much like to answer that. As I have pointed out, I have not been here today on principle to listen all day to many parties who are all trying to be as indignant as possible about the tone of the debate. Mrs van der Plas points out that it is indeed about the content. But to prove that I have followed your speech, you yourself stated that, for the first time since parliamentary history, we are discussing the form of the debate and the way in which the debate is being conducted, and not on matters of substance which are so much more important. We are here almost every week in the scheme to ask for debates on immigration issues, climate policy, you name it all. We are always told: oh, oh, oh, the plenary agenda is so full. I prepared other debates this afternoon. Moreover, it is also wrong that we should come here just to finalise a text of the agreement. I'm practically always in the plenary. It has never happened before that I was not in the Chamber at the beginning and that I did not come in here until the last moment. I challenge you to give one example. It's just factually incorrect. You also ask why we are so little at debates. We are trying to spend our time as efficiently as possible. In 90% of the cases, the outcome of a debate here is already established in advance and everyone is just performing their play. We are the only party that is in close contact with citizens outside election time, who are constantly entering the country. We are incredibly busy with the way in which we complete our popularly represented work. If you or other people disagree, everyone is free to vote for other parties. We have a lot of people in our constituency who have voted for us, so we are very grateful for the way in which we have implemented parliamentary membership. Every Member of Parliament, all 150, is free to decide for himself how it will implement the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u205	I'm going to see Mr Paternotte. Mrs van der Plas, you have made six interruptions and made a point of order. So that's seven already. They weren't all short either. I want to see Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u206	Yes, but it was a personal fact, because Mr Van Meijeren also speaks to me personally. He's asking me personally if I can prove that. Mr. Van Meijeren, I'm sitting next to the Forum Bank. I'm in two to three debates every day. I'm just... I'm just... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... Those tables are just empty! They're nine times out of ten empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u207	It's been noted. You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u208	That's the case until there's an input. You mustn't lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u209	No, you speak to me. This is simply factually incorrect. And if Mrs Van der Plas finds it useful to listen to pointless debates here 60 hours a week, that is her right. If you think that's the way you're best placed to work for your constituents, then Mrs Van der Plas should do so. We have a unique form of politics. We are much more than just a political party. We are a social renewal movement. We organize events, we organize lectures, we organize debates, we organize events. We're in the country every night. And we choose the debates where, in our opinion, our added value is greatest, in order to be as effective as possible in filling in Parliamentary membership. We all get our working hours, so you don't have to worry about that at all. And everyone is free to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u210	Mr Paternotte, for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u211	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meijeren said that freedom of expression is under pressure in the Netherlands. That's right; in recent years, the number of threats against journalists has increased. We've seen people invade the G.D.D. to threaten them. Scientists got people at the door last weekend, at their house, to intimidate them. And for some ministers, when they walk out in the morning, the first thing they see is a police station, because someone was at the door with a torch that made the same texts as Forum for Democracy in this Chamber. So yes, freedom of speech is under pressure. And Mr Van Meijeren and the Democracy Forum contribute to this by threatening to "there will be tribunals if you continue to do so." Mrs Gündoğan came forward here, I was at that debate and said that she, not only herself but also her mother, is getting intimidating e-mails and mail from the supporters of the Forum for Democracy. And what did Mr Van Meijeren do when he walked forward to say that he encouraged his supporters to continue to do so, to do everything possible to change Gündoğan's mind? Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks indicated that because of all the hatred she gets over her through videos from Forum, she does think twice before she walks to the interrupt microphone. So yes, freedom of speech is under pressure. And that's because of threats and intimidation in this room. My question is: why does Mr Van Meijeren do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u212	Well, Mr. President, I hear ten to twenty reproaches, so I hope you'll also allow me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u213	No, just a brief and concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u214	But there are a lot of different aspects in it. To begin with the GD staff who would be attacked: that's what I'm being set up here. Mr Paternotte is probably referring to the investigation that I have carried out, which shows that there is unlawful action by GD staff, that children are being put under pressure to be injected with experimental gene therapy. That does piss people off, that's crazy, of course. We have focused our efforts not on those employees, but on the policy. We have guaranteed the privacy of the employees as much as possible by making them unrecognizable. And if after BOOS Ali B.'s documentary gets a threat because it turns out he raped children, then it's not the documentary maker's fault either. If Peter R. de Vries makes a documentary about Joran van der Sloot because he would have killed a girl and Joran van der Sloot then receives a threat, it is not Peter R. de Vries' fault. We expose wrongdoings, and they can possibly piss people off. Then there is the point about Mrs Gündoğan, because once again disinformation is being disseminated. Mrs Gündoğan did not say at all that she received intimidating e-mails. Mrs Gündoğan stood here the day an e-mail bomb was sent to all Members of Parliament, in which they were called upon to vote against the 2G Act. And we also call on our constituents: mail the MPs and convince them to vote against that law. Then came Mrs Gündoğan, and she said that she received annoying e-mails and that that would not change her views. Then I walked to the interrupting microphone and said: I am proud of our supporters, who are trying to convince you to change your policy. That's what I said. There has been absolutely no question of intimidating or threatening e-mails. We condemn any form of threat, intimidation, violence. We call for peaceful democratic resistance. And writing down MPs is a wonderful tool for citizens to express their discontent. And that of intimidation, that turned out to be only after. After that, she said somewhere that she would have been intimidated. We weren't aware of that at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u215	I will give Mr Paternotte the floor in a moment for an interruption. But not on this issue, because the colleague himself is not here. Mr Omtzigt has also just mentioned how annoying it is when you are being talked about. I understand that this example is cited, but you have both given your views on it, so I am now giving the interruption to Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u216	Yeah, but about that violence, that we'd be violence...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u217	I give an interruption to Mr Paternotte, but not again on this issue, about a colleague who has not been there. But he also had a wider interruption, so that's what Mr Paternotte is going to do. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u218	The point is that what happens here in Parliament has its impact in the Netherlands, but it is also about what it does directly with our colleagues. What Mr Van Meijeren is doing here is purely forgery of history. Mrs Gündoğan mentioned Forum for Democracy and DENK. Mr Kuzu then came forward and said that he was sorry that his supporters were sending such intimidating messages and that he called on them not to do so. Mr Van Meijeren then came forward to call on his supporters to do exactly the same and, above all, to continue with it. That happened right there. And of course it's not the only example. Because when you say "your time will come; there will be tribunals," what a group member of yours did, it is also meant to say that someone should stop what he thinks, that he should not stand here without a burden and that he should keep his mouth shut. Yes, freedom of expression is under pressure, and it is under pressure from Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u219	Mr Paternotte has fallen into the trap of fake news. Apparently, he's looking at the NPO too much. I also saw on Op1 that Mr Kuzu walked from DENK to the interrupting microphone and shouted that he would distance himself from it if threatening e-mails were distributed. I also saw myself walking to the interrupting microphone and saying that I encouraged our supporters. But what Mr Paternotte didn't see, because he wasn't in the room here, but based purely and solely on the fake news of the NPO, is that there was cut and glued in those images. In reality, I did not go to the interrupting microphone after Mr Kuzu, but before that, when there was no mention of intimidating e-mails.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u220	I was sitting there during that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u221	I'd like to respond to the previous accusation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u222	Mr Van Meijeren finishes his final sentence. Then Mr Paternotte gets one last...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u223	Well, I still have a few sentences, because Mr Paternotte also indicated that violence and threats against Members of Parliament are taking place, by words spoken here in the Chamber or elsewhere by politicians. Once again, he is trying to frame us here in a nauseating way that we would be responsible for violence or threats. We never call for violence. Of course, words that politicians use may incite violence or hatred. But it has never happened that a sympathiser or someone from the FVD's supporters has used violence against any politician. If you could give me one example, I hope you will succeed. If we want to see such examples, we need to look at politicians who have said in the past: I hope that Mr Fortuyn is bleeding. Then a sympathizer of GroenLinks walked with a gun to Mr. Fortuyn to put five bullets in his head. That's violence. Those examples are there. But that people from an anticorona angle may use violence against politicians, we totally reject, at all times, in the most definite terms. But it might be more obvious that this is because these people have been deprived of their freedom and fundamental rights for two years, under the guise of lies, because they are being harassed, or because they hear the Minister of Health say about unvaccinated people: I know where they live. Those people feel intimidated. Could it perhaps anger them instead of calling for peaceful action here, such as civil disobedience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u224	I am trying to listen very carefully to what is happening in this debate. You have just said that left-wing parties, Mr GroenLinks, were specifically mentioned as responsible for violence and also for a bullet. I don't think that's acceptable. I'm not gonna let you do that here. Everyone has an opinion on everything. That is what this debate is for. That's okay, but I won't let you do this. I give the floor to Mrs Hermans for an interruption. No, you can't respond to it either. I won't let you. Mr. Omtzigt wants to go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u225	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. How does Mr Van Meijeren view that I was attacked on the Square together with one of the staff of the CDA Group a year and a half ago? Did he ever find anything public about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u226	Of course, I find it horrible, horrible, if any politician walks out here and gets attacked. Let's be clear about that. We have always spoken out against this in every way possible. So I'm judging that. It's horrible. I am happy that concerned citizens make a strong statement or address politicians in harsh terms, but the limit is always violence, calls for violence, threats and intimidation. Keep it peaceful, keep it loving. That is what we are calling for. If someone goes beyond the limits and thinks he has to resort to weapons or other means, we naturally reject that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u227	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u228	Well, I've got three or four more. I'm glad to hear that from Mr Van Meijeren. However, Mr Van Meijeren, for example, met one of these attackers on the terrace here on Prinsjesdag. They are also regularly present at FVD meetings and they all distribute FVD campaign material. Did Forum ever talk to these people themselves that they were allowed to do so, that they didn't like the way it happened? In fact, one of them was convicted. So did you talk to them personally because you met them personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u229	I have no idea who these people have been. I meet a lot of people at the Square. I shake hands every day. I honestly have no idea who attacked Mr Omtzigt. I'm always very careful. The person who walked with a torch to Mrs Kaag's house was also directly associated with FVD, which after all turned out to have nothing to do with FVD and even turned out to be active for another political party. So no, it's completely unknown to me. We always call on our supporters to engage peacefully and lovingly in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u230	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u231	That's clear. Then I hope that Mr Van Meijeren, when that becomes clear to him, will also dare to say to his supporters during a demonstration, so not only here in the Chamber. I'd appreciate it if if there was such a demonstration, he'd have the guts to say, you can say anything and find everything, and you can also use a swear word when you talk about a politician, but don't do this. Don't just say that here, but give it back to those fierce rallys. That would be awesome to him. But I see willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u232	In fact, we have done this a great many times. Only, those are not the fragments that then circulate on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u233	We are having a debate today on the manners and the position of the House of Representatives. Mr Van Meijeren said a number of things on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I think it's a lot of things, but I'm gonna leave that for now. There is one other element in his speech that I would like to make a comment about, and that is the remark that the President shuts us down if she does not like the opinion. We are discussing this when we set limits in the debate, we as MPs, but also the President of our Parliament when it comes to threats, intimidation or calling for unlawful action. This has nothing to do with an opinion. No one's ever been silenced here before to vent their opinion. I would like to emphasise this once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u234	Then I will respond briefly. It is true that this is based on the content of opinions which are not offensive or threatening, which do not incite violence or call for unlawful acts, and which silence people. I can also give an example, although I have many more. When I found here, in fact, in the preparation of the legislation on the corona ticket, that it was the first time since the Second World War that legislation was being prepared to exclude people from social life, the President of the Chamber expressed the microphone and said: you cannot say that here, because I can imagine that people at home find this offensive. The President then goes along with that under the heading 'Bagatellization of the Holocaust', which she refers to in her note, and she now nods in agreement, but I am not playing down the Holocaust at all. In fact, I note that we are on a path that was also followed in the run-up to the Second World War. Of course, I have said this very often too, and the current situation is in no way comparable to the eradication of population groups. If I am not allowed to express that opinion here, I think that is a very bad restriction on freedom of expression. In fact, even if there was a member of parliament who trivialized the Holocaust... I won't be, but even if there were a Member of Parliament who says, for example, "in my opinion, only 300,000 Jews were murdered," I'll just mention something...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u235	Then that would not happen and certainly not under the presidency I held today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u236	...then, in my opinion, a debate on this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u237	That's your opinion, but I won't allow it. Mr Klaver has one final question, because he has already had six.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u238	It just happened again. It happens all the time. On all these demonstrations and on all those videos, you have an incredibly big mouth and we see tough stuff. Thierry Baudet says: I do not believe that ideas can change the world, but violence can. Here it was said again: the NPO is all fake news. In the meantime, we'll see what happens. Scientists are being visited at home. Journalists of the NOS can no longer do their job without security. I cycle here regularly through The Hague and then I see stickers from Forum voor Democracy that say it's fake news what's in the media. There are Telegram groups, of which Forum people are just the leaders, in which addresses are shared by politicians. You are contributing to a spiral of violence in this country, I say through the chairman. Then be a man. You're in the middle of something. If you're so tough out there, come out here in Parliament. But please accept that you will find a united chamber opposite you here, because we do not accept you bringing forward this kind of undermining of the rule of law. Not now, not ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u239	The selective indignation is truly appalling. I should like to mention five minutes ago the example of a Green Left politician, Mr Rosenmöller. Prior to the 2002 elections, he indicated: I hope that Mr Fortuyn will bleed. Then someone who can be proven to be connected to groups linked to GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u240	I'm going to take the floor for this. I also said just now that I will not allow it to be linked. There's no evidence of that. So I'm not gonna let you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u241	Then may I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u242	No, you may not. A point of order is made as an interrupt. You're on this side. I'm guarding order here. Mr Heerma will be given room for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u243	In his speech, Mr Van Meijeren referred to parliamentary immunity. He thinks that everything here should be able to be said. That is part of parliamentary immunity. But there is also a responsibility in how we Members of Parliament deal with it. That is restricted by the Rules of Procedure. That's always been the case. Is the consequence of his speech that he actually believes that all restrictions should be abolished from the Rules of Procedure? Should we delete all that because it is a restriction of freedom of speech? And if he doesn't think so, what is the essence of his speech? I would also ask him to respond at the end of the President's letter, which states that the security services link the way in which the debate is being conducted here and what is being said here with the increase in threats against MPs and directors. I myself added: journalists and scientists. Is what the security services say according to Mr Van Meijeren fake news? Or does he say: unfortunately peanut butter, that is the consequence of the unlimited freedom of expression we have here in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u244	I note that there are, as it were, two points to which I must respond. First of all, can everything really be said here in the Chamber? No. I made it clear in my speech that it is right for the President to have powers to maintain order. Article 72 of the Constitution indeed states that we have a Rules of Procedure, but this must be seen in the way in which this Chamber operates, is set up and is organised. If a majority of the House were to decide that certain opinions would be prohibited, that would be contrary to the Constitution, if interpreted in that way. The Rules of Procedure should not therefore simply stipulate that certain views should not be expressed here. How would it go in my opinion? I do not think that the Rules of Procedure should be removed. I think that very cautious use should be made of the President's powers of order. They must be pulled out of the closet as soon as the order is disturbed here, for example when people start yelling at each other or start yelling at each other or if chaos arises in any way. Then it is up to the President to maintain the order here and to ensure that we can normally debate here with each other. If I put forward a certain position here in a calm, calm manner that may be offensive to people at home, then the President should not intervene. Then the whole Chamber here is full of Members of Parliament, who are all allowed to walk to the interrupting microphone to contradict that and to say that it is the greatest possible nonsense, whether it is a bagatellization of the Holocaust or a comparison with World War II or whatever. Then it's up to Members of Parliament to distance themselves from that. You're all very good at that. However, the President should not interfere in the substance of opinions or views or views of the parties, as they may, in the opinion of the President, be offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u245	There is a follow-up question from Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u246	Well, there was a second aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u247	You've had plenty of time. Oh, Mr Heerma would also like to hear the second aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u248	The second aspect was that there would be more violence and threats towards parliamentarians or other politicians. I say that, in my opinion, there is not so much news going on at the moment, because threats are unfortunately of all times. Mr Baudet's front door was already painted with slogans as "fascist" in 2017, all of which are also used by politicians here in the Chamber. So I hope that if you think that we should start weighing words, you will look in the mirror yourself. It is about the rhetoric that is being used here. If Members of Parliament call us "racist" or "fascist," we immediately notice that the number of death threats is increasing. The powder letters are flying through our mailbox. At the beginning of this year, a group of masked extremists wearing ski masks, all dressed in black, committed another attack on our party office. Where was all that outrage back then? Mr Baudet can't leave his door without security. Unfortunately, this happens. To this day, there has never been one member of the Forum who has used violence. They're nasty e-mails I hear all about. So let us be realistic. If you think these words are so important here, please keep a mirror in your mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u249	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u250	The end of the answer really fascinates me. I'll start at the beginning. Mr Van Meijeren pointed out that there was no need to amend the Rules of Procedure, that nothing had to be deleted. The Rules of Procedure are full of points on which a president can maintain, if things happen here that cannot be accepted. I think that the Chamber is very much in favour of the fact that these things, which have been in the Rules of Procedure for many years, will also be applied. Then I'll go to the second part. My question was about the fact that security services indicate that there is an increase in threats, as a result of what is being said here in the debate. An increase. Does Mr Van Meijeren think that fake news or does he say that this is part of it, that this is the result of it? If he doesn't say both, he says that we may have to normalize what is happening here in the Chamber, if, according to the security services, it would lead to an increase in threats and intimidation, which would just smother the free debate in an open democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u251	I shall return to both points briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u252	Yeah, it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u253	Short, this time. The first item concerned the Rules of Procedure, which are sufficient to limit the debate. There are a number of grounds on which the President, if he is talking about it, which is, for example, in the event of an insult, you can call it on the grounds that he may decide to take the floor from a Member of the European Parliament. You don't have to; you can. I see that it is now being used in a way that has never happened before. A few weeks ago, even for the first time since parliamentary history, for the first time since we met here, the President refused to allow a parliamentarians to table a motion here. That's never happened before. Then there's the comparison with World War II. It does not fall within the scope of the Rules of Procedure on which it is possible to take the floor. These are grounds that see on form and order, but not on content. That is a very important distinction. At the moment, in my opinion, we are quietly exchanging thoughts. It would be very undesirable for me to put forward a certain position here and then say to the President that that should not be a position, while there is no interference here. Then there's the question of whether it's fake news that there's been an increase. First of all, it is very interesting to see exactly what there is an increase in it. Is that about declarations or about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u254	You promised to keep it short, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u255	...a certain sentiment on social media? The debate has been seriously hardened and brutalized. Tensions in society are increasing very much. So I can very well imagine that on both sides... we are indeed also seeing a great increase, even now, in the number of threats that are coming towards us, around the Russian-Ukraine debate. It's very sorry that that happens. I don't call that fake news. I have just said that there is a kind of debate here of 'all arrows on Forum', when I say that violence comes from all sides, but incredibly little from our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u256	Thank you. Mr Heerma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u257	It is not a question of pointing all the arrows at the Forum, but Mr Van Meijeren comes into the debate, stands here and says: what nonsense; everything must be said here, otherwise we will restrict freedom of expression. He is here now, in his second answer to my question, turning around a bit, because he says: it is very unfortunate that it leads to more threats. That is precisely the case when there is tension in society; it goes far beyond security services. Several scientists and journalists say that they feel a threshold to participate in the free debate, because the result is that they are mentioned here in plenary, sometimes by name, with repetition of the name, which means that they are threatened and that they cannot bring their children to school safely. Then there's something wrong, isn't there? Then we'll have to make rules, won't we? Then we must say: we do not want to contribute in this way to further escalation and polarisation, which may eventually end in violence? Mr Van Meijeren says: that has not yet happened. But should we wait until it's done and then say, okay, now there's a line crossed and now we're going to normalize? For that would be the consequence of Mr Van Meijeren's reasoning: waiting for it to happen and then saying that it may have gone just too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u258	No, the boundaries are very clear. Calls for violence and threats are not allowed. That's obvious. If it happens here in the Chamber, you may not be convicted by a judge, but the current Rules of Procedure offer sufficient opportunities to intervene. At the same time, when we express opinions that may be offensive, it is very difficult to say that a threat that a politician gets is a direct consequence of that. A group of extremists with ski masks has attacked our party office, so 18-year-old employees with tears in their eyes were sitting behind the glass. We note that these extremists choose the same words as those used here by a number of politicians, but we do not blame them directly, because it is very difficult to recognise a causal link. At least I can see that tensions are increasing. People have been illegally deprived of their freedoms. Children are injected with a high-risk liquid outside the eyes of parents. People get angry about that. We must prevent this from leading to violence, but not by smothering the debate in the bud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u259	Finally, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u260	It is good that Mr Van Meijeren at least acknowledges that the Rules of Procedure give the President the means to intervene. It is also a good thing that the President makes use of it, even in this debate, if that is the reason for it. But Mr van Meijeren always says in his answer to the questions: when it comes to opinions causing people to get hurt... I am not talking about that at all! I am talking about security services indicating that the debate here in this house is leading to an increase in threats of violence. My question is this. Does Mr Van Meijeren share that there will then be a limit to intervention? Or does he say: no, this is collateral damage in the debate; that is part of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u261	Well, when it comes to non-punished expressions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u262	They're statements in parliament. You'll be inviolable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u263	I know, but that doesn't matter. These are expressions that are punishable if they are done outside parliament, such as threats and calls for violence. If such statements are made, I fully understand the President's intervention. It's not something I'm turning on. This was part of my speech. I have a paragraph in my speech which states that it is a good thing that the President can maintain public order and have powers to do so. When it comes to opinions, I have mentioned a number of examples of this, such as the fact that a particular policy may be punishable or that it is unlawful, the President said that it does not allow it. When it comes to comparisons with the Second World War, I believe that this should not be a reason to stop expressing those views. So that's where I'm bordered. The border lies with calls for violence and threats. But if an opinion, a view, a position can be potentially offensive, which then leads to violence being used, that is no reason to ban that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u264	You're talking past each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u265	Thank you for this review of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u266	I didn't mean it like that. It's my job to see if you get an answer to your question. I note with you that this is not exactly happening. Maybe I'll give it a try, because it's the fifth time this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u267	Thank you for the coloring of the review. I'd still like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u268	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u269	Insult is also punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u270	Group insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u271	Offense is also punishable. At the same time, we have recently, a few years ago, now come into the domain of criminal law, an imam who made statements about the mayor of Rotterdam who were not directly threatening. But the consequences of the statements were indeed that it created the context of threat. There are many more examples of this, but this is one that made the news a lot. At that time, therefore, direct expression under the rule of criminal law is not punishable, but by the glorification of violence it does lead to the threat of a mayor, who may be more difficult to carry out his duties. Does Mr Van Meijeren say: is that okay? Or does he say that criminal law may need to be adapted to that? How does he respond to that? You see more and more of these expressions, in this case of the imam about Aboutaleb.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u272	This is a very interesting question, which is currently also part of a legal debate in literature. When is there a call for violence? In the United States, this will only be punishable if that violence actually occurs. In the Netherlands, of course, it is very difficult to say, when someone makes a call or a statement without violence following it,: yet this remark encourages violence. This violence does not occur at all in practice. This seems to me to be an interesting question. Does the Code of Criminal Law need to be amended? We believe that the restrictions on freedom of expression in the Penal Code are already too great. We believe that there should be more room for debate, more like an American model. In our opinion, freedom of expression is the foundation, the cornerstone, of a democratic society. Yes, when it comes to collective bargaining, we are indeed in favour of deleting that element. But inciting violence, for example, we want to keep it criminal. We can continue to do so in a debate on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Law, but that may be too far for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u273	Mr Van Meijeren says that there is polarisation on both sides. There is a threat on both sides if you reflect a little bit and look back on the past two years, the corona time, which has also been an important period for Forum for Democracy. If he then indicates that the party office has been threatened, that people came in ski masks and that there are threats now, including in the context of the Ukraine war, I am very sorry. It's not right, it can't be right, and it can't be right. He says this could possibly have a relationship with some of the expressions here. I don't know, but you always have to reflect on that. The other way around, I would like to ask him for a reflection, looking back at the other side of polarization. If it is stated here that scientists have been threatened and that politicians need to be protected, we have seen the incident of someone with a torch in front of the current finance minister, Mr Kaag, at the time. Is there any reflection at your side?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u274	Well, I make mistakes every day. And every day when I walk out of a debate, I think "hey, I should have reacted differently." That's right on the conveyor belt. I try to learn every day from mistakes I make. I am glad that Mr Segers has come forward to talk about threats to us, which I have said might be related to the behaviour of politicians in this Chamber. Last week, someone was in the Op1 programme proclaiming that Mr Baudet is making statements for which he should actually be executed or hanged. Mr Segers sat there and looked at it. This has a direct impact on Mr Baudet's safety: powder letters have been delivered to us at the party office and slogans have been written on Mr Baudet's front door. I do think there can be a link between that, but we should be reluctant to suggest such a causal link directly. I think we should all think about that. As far as we are concerned, the border always lies with any form of violence, the call for violence, and the threat. We call for loving and peaceful protests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u275	It's interesting. I'm asking for a reflection and I'm getting a you-bowl. I'm gonna have a seizure right away. I do not think anything should happen to Mr Baudet. It wasn't a serious proposal, which I didn't have to go into seriously. But if Mr Van Meijeren wants to hear that, I would like to say that. It's really off topic. Mr Van Meijeren says he makes mistakes every day. If we look back for a moment and look at the two-year period in which Mr Van Meijeren said that he no longer recognizes this government, that we should no longer acknowledge this government, that this government is a regime and that we must resist, what mistakes has he made in those two years in terms, debate contributions, and speeches during demonstrations? What mistakes did he learn from?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u276	I am not taking a word back from Mr Segers' examples. That just happened to be a moment when I wasn't making any mistakes. Furthermore, it is my own process to learn from my own mistakes. I think it is unnecessary to comment on the question at what time I said something and I should have said something else. I have no need to comment on the substance of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u277	Thank you. Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u278	Finally, one final question. The question of how Mr Van Meijeren reflects on words, about which quite serious people say that there is a link with words that have also been chosen here, including from the Forum side, which have led to threats to scientists and politicians. Mr Van Meijeren says in general that he makes mistakes every day, but that is very gratuitous. It would be so strong if that reflection were to speak clearly after two years. In those two years there has indeed been ugly polarization and there have been really nasty moments, from all sides. And I say it again, in all clarity: if there are threats to Mr Baudet or to the Forum Party Office or if powder letters are sent, then that is not possible, because that is terrible. I mean, we need to talk about that in full clarity. My question is on the other hand: isn't there a beginning of reflection because it's been so public? Are all words well chosen, did I choose the right words at the right moments, when there were a lot of angry people standing before me? Was that the way I was supposed to talk about tribunals, arrests, detentions and trials? I would love it if something of reflection would take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u279	In my opinion, the examples that have caused a fuss in the media do not contain any statements that would be cross-border. For Mr Segers' assumption that these statements would lead to threats and violence, I have not yet seen the beginning of an ounce of evidence or strong evidence. I think it is much more likely that many people are at an end and frustrated because their freedoms and fundamental rights have been unlawfully taken away from them, whether that is a man who goes to Mrs Kaag's house with a torch or a man who attacks Mr Omtzig on the street. Again, we also make mistakes. We always look critically at ourselves, but I fully support the examples mentioned by Mr Segers. These are substantive views on which we need to debate the substance here. I'm not taking back a word of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-09-tweedekamer-5.u280	Thank you. We have come to the end of the first term of office. A suspension has been requested to prepare the response. That's gonna take 45 minutes. We will continue at 5.20 p.m. with the answer of Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the Committee on Reinforcement Functions Second Chamber - More than the sum of the parts.
