ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35671, Amendment of a number of education laws relating to adjustments in the field of the transfer of primary education to secondary education and amendment of the system structure of flow tests and tests associated with apprenticeship and education follow-up systems in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Fiers of the Labour Party, who will also speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr President, I would indeed like to say that this contribution is partly on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. This is the first time for me. I think that's kind of special. Thank you for the trust of colleagues. Congratulations, Minister, of course. Welcome to this special room; we were just talking about it. We look forward to working together. Mr. Chairman. "If spirit and hand do not merge, there will be no art." With this statement by Leonardo da Vinci, the opinion of last June's Education Council on combating inequality of opportunity in education, entitled: Select later, better differentiate. This statement by Leonardo da Vinci reflects the core of the opinion of the Education Council. Da Vinci was an artist, scientist, philosopher and inventor. According to the Education Council, he saw the importance of interplay. I quote: 'For the true art is to see different abilities not as stand-alone talents and not to express them in isolation from each other, but to allow them to develop optimally in conjunction with each other'. The opinion of the Education Council "Select later, differentiate better" was obtained at the request of the previous cabinet and based on an earlier study by the Education Council at the end of 2018 entitled: Advanced differentiation in the education system. The Education Council notes that the way in which the education system is organized in the Netherlands lacks talents. According to the Education Council, this is not enough for young people, but it is also a missed opportunity for society and our economy. Last year the ESC also issued a similar opinion: Equal opportunities in education. The board advises to invest structuralally in equality of opportunity for all and proposes a comprehensive package of measures. The ESC also advocates later selection as a standard and early selection as an exception. So, selecting later, everyone seems to agree on that so that each student has more time and the ability to develop himself. In other words: the later it is selected, the more the genes, the abilities of the child themselves, play a role and the less environmental factors, such as your home situation, are decisive. Scientists say that's not crazy. After all, when you are 12, there is still a lot to be done in the development of brain capacity. By selecting later, children have longer time to develop. This applies both to the more gifted, early-age and fast-learning children as well as to the less fast and well-learning young people and the late-bloomers. According to the Education Council, it pays to allow children to learn longer from and with each other, so that each student can develop his or her abilities on his or her own. The Council therefore also recommends better differentiation by offering education more flexible and tailor-made from primary school onwards. Thus, the different learning needs of the pupils are better addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u4	The Education Council will find something. The S.E.R.'s gonna find something. Do you know what the field of work is like, the teacher for the class? Do you know what they need? The workload is high. They have to differentiate a lot in class. They have clearly indicated that smaller classes would be more effective. How do you feel about the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u5	Very important, of course. I come from an education family. You might be surprised. So in that sense, the conversation at the kitchen table is often also about education. I totally agree with you. Of course, it is not just the Education Council that should be declared sacred. In the end, the field also has a very important voice. I do not remember exactly when this was a debate on the abolition of the teacher register. At that time, it was also about whether we need such a bureaucratic instrument that nobody is waiting for at all. So I share that opinion that we need to look at what teachers need to be able to be a good teacher for the class. On the other hand everyone also seems to agree on the later selection, agreeing that it is wise not to put children in a booth too early. That's actually what I'm trying to say with the first part of the argument, but there's going to be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u6	That's the theory, but in practice it turns out it doesn't work. The educational union, the AOb, has also expressed his scepticism. It would be nice if the Labour Party and GroenLinks in particular had more attention to this. That's the plea. Can you imagine me as a former teacher drawing attention to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u7	Sure. Now I find it special that you mention the education union, because in the last interruption we had with each other, you said to me: you should not follow the education union blindly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u8	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren. Would you both like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u9	I've been for almost 45 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u10	Sorry, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u11	Go and try it again. You're both educators, so I think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u12	I have been a member of the AOb trade union for almost 45 years and I think that too much has been politicised administratively, but the officials in the workplace are of course doing a very good job. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u13	Okay, well, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u14	Mr President, I would like to ask through you whether there has been a study by Radboud University that a subsequent decline in Cito tests will not lead to a change in school advice. That's what we've been investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u15	A lot of research has been done into what is and is not effective. I also hope, in my debate with the Minister, to find the basis for what is effective in combating inequality of opportunity. I think everyone agrees that we are pursuing this with each other. The question is, of course, which measures are effective. I shall go into this further in my speech. This may have been a bit of a long introduction to what clubs have said about this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u16	I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u17	Will you continue your speech, Mrs Fiers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u18	I'm afraid to say it, but I'm moving on anyway. The Education Council recommends that the school advice be dropped into Group 8 and that the selection for the specific form of education be postponed until after the first three years of secondary education. Students therefore continue after group 8 without selection and with a warm transfer to secondary education, as it is called. Secondary education then starts with a three-year bridge period with pupils with different capacities in education. And then we'll be back at Leonardo da Vinci. The outgoing cabinet has left the position on the opinion of the Education Council "Select later, differentiate better" to the new cabinet. We are therefore very interested, of course, in what this new minister thinks of this concrete but nevertheless fairly basic opinion. We ask the Minister, when he responds, of course, to go into the passage in the new coalition agreement. I quote: "We are improving the transition from primary to secondary education. We encourage broad and extended bridge classes with an eye for each student's talents." We would like to hear from the Minister exactly what is meant by this stimulating text in the coalition agreement. It's a very nice ambition, but the big question is, of course, how? Can the Minister indicate how he is going to stimulate these broad and extended bridge classes? Because in recent years, there has been quite a bit of effort and encouragement in the fight against inequality of opportunity. Think of the Action Plan on Equal Opportunities, 2016, and the Equal Opportunities Coalition, 2020. Unfortunately, the social problem of inequality of opportunity is still considerable. Solving this is very urgent. We'd like to hear from the Minister if he shares that great urgency with us. The groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA are also curious about the personal ambition of this minister. What exactly is he going to do to make a difference? As Da Vinci once put it, there you have him again: "Successful people rarely sit back and let things happen; they step forward." A successful minister is therefore taking action. We are looking forward to what he thinks should be the result of his policy. When will he be satisfied? Can he give us a concrete indication? The proposal that we are discussing here today also aims to increase equality in education by allowing one national entry point for children for further education. This national registration moment arises by adjusting the test time at the primary school in conjunction with the school advice. The groups of GroenLinks and the PvdA assess the effectiveness of this proposal with the analysis and the far-reaching advice of the Education Council in mind. A central login time certainly has advantages, but we are going to select more with this proposal than is currently the case. This raises questions about the effectiveness of the proposal. That is why we have the following questions to the Minister. In his view, what concrete effect does this adaptation of the registration time give in order to counter inequality of opportunity? Does he see this proposal as a drop on a glowing record or a serious first step? Can he indicate on what basis he arrives at that conclusion? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the modification of the notification time, the GroenLinks and the PvdA groups wanted to raise two other points. First of all, the cabinet's original proposal to abolish the central test offered by the government is now referred to as the flow-through test, and only to work with the tests of private providers. One of the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives prevents the abolition of the public flow test; from now on I will only call it 'the government test'. The PvdA and GroenLinks groups consider this amendment to be an improvement on the original proposal. We are not in favour of completely privatising the flow tests. Why, after all, would you abolish a valued and widely used test with child and bath water? The Council of State also advised the Cabinet not to abolish a government test, since it is not yet clear whether these private tests are comparable and have the same quality. That is the letter from the Minister that we received yesterday or this morning, when was it? Got it on the e-mail. This shows that the different flow tests are indeed not comparable. Perhaps, with the science of today, the Minister can reflect again on the advice of the Council of State and the original cabinet proposal. Furthermore, we believe that the role and responsibilities of quality assurance in this proposal are better regulated than is currently the case. It is not, of course, impossible for the cabinet at any time to come forward with a proposal to abolish that government test. That is why I am looking for concrete arguments and the underlying analysis on the basis of which the cabinet wanted to completely abolish that government test. What exactly is the problem with this? Figures show that at present about half of primary schools use that government test. From answers to the PvdA to written questions we have asked about this, it is not entirely clear why schools opt for a private test, or for the government test. Does the Minister agree with us that it is necessary to have an understanding of that motivation in order to reach a weighted judgment on whether or not to abolish that government test? And if not, why not? Finally, Mr President. I would like to address a potential and perhaps less visible risk of private tests. For this I draw the parallel with a practice revealed by a NRC journalist with publishers of teaching methods. Many major publishers appear to be open to the sensitivity of orthodox-religious schools to an all too mundane and/or non-traditional presentation of things in their school books. Because these publishers want to have as many customers as possible for their books, it seems worthwhile not to include the offensive examples or illustrations in the school books. Evolution theory is sensitive, just like short skirts and so on. This form of self-censorship is, of course, difficult to discover. "You often don't know until you figure it out," I thought next to Da Vinci, we should quote Cruijff. This type of self-censorship can also be addressed in the various private flow tests. The moment you show only one standard in the tests, for example, think of women and men in traditional roles or only heterosexual perspectives, which gives a distorted picture of how society actually works and can make children feel that they are not part of it. It is important that children at school also get things that they may not get at home. School is the social place where everyone gets in touch with each other. This is how you create understanding, respect and acceptance for people who are different and think than yourself, something that will benefit the rest of your life and your career.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u19	Will you finish your story? You're almost done, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u20	Yeah, it's a very small piece. Can I do that for a second? The PvdA asked questions about this in the written pre-consultation. These were not answered. That's why we're putting them here again. To what extent is a sufficiently complete picture being assessed? And how is it prevented that certain subjects are not addressed or are reduced by consideration or otherwise systematically? We look forward to the Minister's response. Someone's in front of the minister now, but I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u21	Thank you. I am indeed giving the floor to Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u22	I hope Mrs Fiers is also looking forward to my response. I fully agree with Mrs Fiers: in tests and in teaching materials you must guard against political influences. What does Mrs Fiers think about the fact that Black Piet is omitted from testing and learning content and that the climate obsession is glorified in it? Does she think that it should be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u23	I am in favour of a broad perspective. All kinds of perspectives can be addressed in schools, and people and children can learn about them. My concern is in it, and that is what we are here for today, which is that if you let the tests be carried out by a lot of different parties and then you have an institute to see if it's actually right, then of course certain things can be deliberately omitted. And I don't think we should want that with each other. The question is, do we have a visual on that? Can we get a visual on that? How do you get a look at that? This is a serious matter of concern to me. You are referring to a very broad public debate, and I think we can talk about it for a very long time. But here I try to point out that it must be well-recorded that things are not systematically omitted when testing and in all these tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I now give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome the new Minister to our home. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, every child should have equal opportunities to go to secondary school of his or her choice. The VVD believes that equality of opportunity is so important for two reasons. One. Individual self-development is important and is mainly designed through appropriate and challenging education. Two. The secondary school to which students flow often determines the further school career and opportunities in working life. That is why we need to be extra vigilant for fair opportunities for all. Mr. Chairman. In today's law, there appear to be processes that need improvement to ensure that equality is guaranteed. Under the current law, pupils are disadvantaged in their choice of school if this choice of school is adjusted after taking the final test. These students can only report to the secondary school of their adapted choice later than the other children in their class. This legislative proposal provides that, after receiving a school advice and passing a flow test, all pupils from the 8th grade will receive a final school advice, allowing them to apply to secondary education at the same time. In addition, the current legislative proposal seeks to remove some tension surrounding the final test in primary education by not speaking of a final test, but of a flow test. What the VVD considers more important is that under the bill there is one registration moment for secondary education for all pupils. That's gonna give you a chance to get into the school of your choice. The bottleneck in the current law for children with an amended opinion has thus been removed. Under the bill, the period between the school advice and the taking of the final test is shortened. The VVD Group is not against this either. This will ensure that there are as few gaps as possible between the school advice and the flow test. Mr. Chairman. In the school years 2019/2020 and 2020/2021, our country was dedicated to the corona crisis. In particular, schools had to adjust all sails, and they did. The VVD Group asks the Minister to reflect on this and then focus on whether children in primary education have passed on to the appropriate level of secondary education for them. And how is the tests and a possible learning disadvantage dealt with at the moment because of the pandemic? The College for Keys and Exams now has a supervisory quality. In this respect, the VVD asks whether an evaluation moment can be built in on how these two, the CvTE and the CITO Foundation, function. That's what the VVD would like to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill that can promote equality of opportunity in education. Equality of opportunity is central to the coalition agreement. It must be an honor for Minister Wiersma to give shape to this in the coming years. This certainly applies to a minister who is a real stacker and who has experienced how important it is for the school to do everything in its power to give children, who are not fully supported from home, the opportunity to make the most of their talent in any area. D66 wishes the Minister every success. Mr. Chairman. The passing-through of primary education to secondary education is an important moment in children's careers. Before the test, the school gave an assessment of the school type best suited to the student. After the test, which is still popularly referred to as "the Cito," this judgment is confirmed or updated. However, in recent years' results, it is striking that primary schools have to raise their assessment of pupils from families belonging to the lower social environments far more often than the assessment of children belonging to the higher social environments. This also applies to rural children in relation to urban children. In both cases, these children receive too little school advice. This bill now seeks, by setting the date of application for secondary education on 1 April, to prevent pupils whose choice can be adjusted upwards from being able to attend the appropriate school because the schools are already full. They then fish behind the net, which is completely unfair. However, in order to remove this imbalance, the final test must be brought forward. We believe that there is an objection to this. What are the chances that the period after the test will not be fully exploited? After all, the tension is finished, both for the school and for the child. According to the research conducted, teachers believe that this will not occur. They say, "No, we are going to make the most of that time." However, it is unknown how students will react. You can of course reason that when the tension has passed the students can prepare themselves optimally for the school transition. But you can also reason, for example, what our House of Representatives did, that students themselves will become easier. After all, the school advice is already known. Our students need all the time in elementary school. For many subjects, the final level has come under pressure in recent years. Two years of corona crisis have only made the learning backward greater. The time available must be used to maximise the transition from primary to secondary education. This transition is not easy for many children. In this respect, we are concerned about the implementation of this proposal. We recognize the underlying idea of coming to the proposal, but doubt whether it will have the intended effects. Can the Minister reassure us on this point? Can the Minister promise that this law will be reviewed and that the inspection will also monitor the learning effects of children after the test? Mr. Chairman. Then there is another aspect of the law. First it concerned the complete privatisation of the final test and now the partial privatisation of the final test. Now the schools are already allowed to take a test that best fits their educational background. Slightly more than half of the schools use that. We had a great deal of difficulty with this measure, because we have reason to believe that the tests are no longer comparable. That view was confirmed in the letter you sent us yesterday. Luckily, you're correcting that in this bill. Moreover, the fact that this partial privatisation was carried out naturally also had to do with the mistakes made by the CvTE in the past. That is what created this new practice. You now offer the CvTE a new task as supervisor. All keys, the Cito and the other keys, of all providers, must be validated by the CvTE. We think that is a very good thing. Moreover, these tests are only about Dutch, mathematics and mathematics. These courses give the best chance of a good follow-up to high school. That, too, is a plus. If the CvTE is also entrusted with the evaluation of the various tests, I ask the Minister. It is important that the different providers in the diversity we have now can continue to learn from each other. Mr. Chairman. Parents who have the means often prepare their children very well for the Cito test by all kinds of tutoring. Other kids will have to do it all by themselves. It's a form of inequality you can't take away. But what are the chances that commercial parties who offer the new tests will also offer a support package aimed at the parents of the pupils, for a fee of course, to prepare their children for the tests? D66 does not consider this opportunity to be imaginary, but at the same time does not consider it desirable. The school has the task of preparing the students well for the flow test. You can't stop parents who can do that from helping their kids. Of course you don't want to; I've always done it myself. But you don't hope that there will be several commercial packages on the market, which for a fee better prepare students for the test their school offers. Have they been agreed with the various commercial parties? Mr. Chairman. This proposal could be a very small step towards equality of opportunity in the transition from p.o. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is based on the Commission's proposal for a Much more we see in the government's agreement on the weather stimulation of the extended bridge classes, with differentiation within them, in addition to education in the p.o. to strengthen much more for disadvantaged students. In recent years, we have also had a lot of children with bicultural backgrounds, who have to take additional obstacles. That's what education needs to prepare for. Education is already doing a great deal about this, but we also believe that the schools that accompany these children should have support. In addition to this broad secondary class, it is a rich school day, with homework guidance, sport and culture. Whoever knows me knows I have a past in it. Education renewal is slow. Forty years ago I started as a teacher together with a colleague at a newly formed broad school community in Groningen for mavo, havo and vwo. The old HBS was merged with the Mavo, the Cort van der Lindenschool. Yet another liberal sound. That's how a new school community started. We, as teachers, at least part of it, because another part of it did not feel like pioneering in an experiment, namely the experiment of offering, within a broad secondary class, differentiated education for mavo, havo and vwo, to postpone choices. It was quite a job, also a very nice job, and the experiment succeeded. It was guided externally. Now what? We hardly see any more broad bridge classes. Differential education within those bridge classes is gone. It also has to do with the funding. As the government called for faster flow, the schools became more reluctant with these broad bridge classes. In this way, they also partially eliminate equality of opportunity. The coalition agreement is now revitalising it. It stimulates broad bridge classes and promotes differentiation. The coalition agreement also puts a lot of resources aside, finally. We expect the Minister to make haste to come up with new proposals to fill this out, because that will really promote equality of opportunity. Mr. Chairman. I am waiting with interest to see Mr Van Kesteren's broad back for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u29	I would like to ask Mr Pijlman the following. Look, the experimental phase used to be a great project, but how big were those classes? Can you imagine that the educational field, the teacher for the class, is not waiting for this kind of experiment at all? Can you imagine that they'd rather work in a smaller class? Can you imagine that being much more effective in the eyes of a lot of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u30	I talk to teachers a lot, and so do you. There are teachers who look up to a lot of changes. I can very well imagine that they say that this is how you also argue that the circumstances must be such that you can make it happen. That's why it's so good. You don't solve all the problems from today to tomorrow. That's why the coalition agreement now wants to use resources to make this possible again. And yes, small classes, that's one of those circumstances. It is very difficult to differentiate by content in very large classes. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you. Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u32	Mr. Chairman. I, too, welcome the Minister for his first debate in the First Chamber, not to defend his first own bill already. That would have been very quick, but to defend one that he inherited from his predecessor. It is a small legislative proposal, but one that touches on a very important issue: that of inequality of opportunity in education and how to reduce it as much as possible. Much has already been said about it by my predecessors. The question is to what extent this bill really makes a substantial contribution to reducing it. My group believes that the government's choice to introduce in future only one registration moment for all pupils passing from primary education to secondary education is logical and sound. For example, we remove the inequality between students who later apply with a revised advice based on what is still called the final test, on the one hand, and the other pupils on the other. Furthermore, it is the question, if you choose a central login moment, what time you choose. The previous government has chosen to solve the problem by adopting the final test, which will henceforth be called "forward test," from April/May to the first half of February, in order to allow a central check-in in March. As far as we are concerned, we have already heard this from other groups. A later registration time reduces the loss of effective education time in the 8th grade and, above all, it postpones the extremely early selection in the Netherlands and thereby increases the equality of opportunity. How does the Minister view this? How is he going to implement the motion of Van Meenen, Bishop and De Hoop adopted in the Lower House that asks for a central registration moment as late as possible? That motion, which has been widely adopted, is actually in a very crazy relationship to the bill; it is actually going against it. How's the Minister handling that? We are very curious about that, so please have a comment. Mr. Chairman. Apart from re-doping and moving the final test in order to allow a central registration moment, the original legislative proposal sought to leave something else, namely the testing in primary education entirely to the market. My group has never understood this choice, but is pleased that this proposed entire privatisation has been withdrawn from the legislative proposal with the amendment adopted almost unanimously by GroenLinks and the SP in the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. All in all, my group does not have a great deal of enthusiasm for this proposal. That is also because the previous government has failed to tackle the inequality of opportunity in our education system much more thoroughly with this bill. I am also talking about the inequality of opportunity that is linked to how we have now arranged the transition from primary education to primary education in the Netherlands. It has been said many times, by the previous speakers but also by various parties in the discussion of the bill in the House of Representatives: if you really want to do something about the inequality of opportunity, then you have to look at how we select students in the Netherlands at their eleventh or twelfths, much earlier than in many foreign countries, and then put them in boxes where they are difficult to find more, but which are very decisive for their further opportunities in society. Many children we select far too early and too definitive. Last year, the Education Council argued this convincingly. This has just been referred to in detail by Mr Fiers. She could also have spoken on behalf of the SP Group in this respect, but perhaps it is a good thing in this case that the message is repeated again. Because, yes, there are also students who are already clear in the sixth or seventh grade that they are best served with mainly academic education, whereas it is clear to others that their talents can be developed mainly with practical education. That's why customization is needed. But there is also a whole group among them that would benefit from broader bridge classes where the moment of choice for mavo, havo or vwo would be postponed for a few more years. And when it comes to customization, why couldn't children also take some courses at Mavo level and others at VWO level? The Education Council states that we need to select later and also to differentiate more internally rather than externally, as we do now. Mr. Chairman. We really need a new vision of our entire education system as far as my group is concerned, especially if we want to give all children maximum opportunities for passing on p.o. to vo. Is this government, this new minister, going to come up with such a vision? The previous government has done too little about this. In the coalition agreement we are now reading some encouraging words about encouraging broad and extended bridge classes with space for a customized diploma. However, it is not more than two sentences in the coalition agreement. There is not yet a detailed vision, let alone legislation. We understand that this minister has just arrived, but can he say anything about the implementation of this part of the coalition agreement? That's what they were just asking about. How is this going to take shape in the only three years this cabinet has? What legislation can we expect to reduce inequality of opportunity, especially in the flow of p.o. To vo? Is it more than just a few minor changes, minor repairs? Or is every conceivable and more fundamental change being moved to another cabinet again? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. When it comes to increasing inequality of opportunity in education, perhaps the biggest problem is the commercialisation and privatisation of education and the way in which it undermines education as a public good. Once again, the Education Council has warned strongly recently about this with a very thorough recommendation. My group is also interested in the Minister's response to this report. Does he share our concerns about the progressive commercialization of education? Even if this bill is adopted, the school advice will be given before the final test, then flow-through test and not after; there will still be more wealthy parents paying for commercial training for their children in the hope that they will score higher on that new flow-through test. This also applies to previous tests in the apprenticeship follow-up system. The commercialisation thus contributes to a division between pupils with parents who want and can pay extra private education for their children, and parents whose wallet is not thick enough for that. Now, that's odds. I would ask the Minister if legislation is not necessary to counter this development. Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech, but only after I have said that I am very much looking forward to the Minister's reply in his first debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u33	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mr Doornhof has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. When proposing education legislation, you tend to think back to your own school time. When we are talking about how to improve that route from elementary school to high school, I should not leave the name of Master Foppe Witzel unnamed. I'm talking about the former director of my former Elementary School C.J. not so long ago. From Rootselaar. Maybe you should say that he was also mayor of the village of Nijkerkerveen in addition to that position. His life wasn't just about school, it was about that whole Venean community. He knew practically everyone and there were often children at his school whose parents had also been in his class with him. All in all, with everything he knew about students, in combination with his educational skills, he was able to judge, like no other, where in secondary education a student could best pass through. Based on the commitment and professionalism of such a person as Master Witzel, one can only welcome the fact that it was said in 2014: let's make the school advice lead and use that final test only as a correction. This does not, of course, mean that all these objective measurement data were simply thrown overboard. They still play a role in the school advice, regardless of the final test. But if you do, the CDA also thinks it's smart not to change the whole order of things with the proposal we're discussing right now. You leave it at that: first the school advice and then the final test as a correction. Of course, an amendment has been tabled in the House of Representatives which states that if it turns out that you have a higher score in the final test, it must automatically mean that the school advice is adjusted upwards. Several colleagues have pointed out that, as a student with an adjusted school advice, you are lagging behind in applying for your secondary school in relation to students for whom that is not the case. The proposal is then to opt for one application for students whose school advice has remained unchanged and for pupils with an updated advice. Of course, that's only fair. If you rely on educational legislation based on the involvement and professionalism of teachers, you must of course remain able to rely on it. My question is, can we just do that? Shouldn't you be making some comments? You can think of the popularity of the profession of teacher. You can question the lack of teachers and the level of students at the pabo. You can question the scale increase in education. And, of course, we're dealing with a new minister. From this point on, I would like to wish this Minister every success in his new job. Perhaps the Minister could say something about these problems. I don't want to piss him off. I would ask him to do so, of course, in the light of the proposal we have before us. Are there still enough masters as Master Witzel in the country who can guarantee high reliability of school advice? Mr. Chairman. Let me make another point. The College for Keys and Exams will no longer offer the final test, but will only recognize the flow tests. It was the intention of course not to provide an "old Cito-key" at all. The Lower House wants to retain that government test and it must then be offered by the Cito Foundation. The starting point is that the position of that foundation when it comes to the substantive requirements in the standardisation process remains the same. Then, of course, the question and the bottleneck that was experienced is: what about this financial imbalance, the financial imbalance in the playing field that was at the beginning of the legislative proposal? Maybe the next thing is important. Surely the Cito Foundation is to advise the College for Keys and Exams on the recognition of these tests? The bill still seems to assume that the market players are also advised by that foundation. But they're going to compete with that foundation in a way. Now the government has acknowledged that you must have a proper separation between the role of the provider and the role of the consultant. Let me just quote the government: "This means that the employees who develop the government test cannot be involved in advising the CvTE on the quality of all flow tests." But the question is, of course, how is that guaranteed, other than just talking about a difference, may I put it that way? In job descriptions. Shouldn't you be talking about real Chinese walls? And shouldn't you also answer the question how to guarantee it? I would like to make one final point. In recognition of the separation of roles and responsibilities, the government does not yet talk about the question of advice to those market players, which I have already said: they are going to compete with the foundation in a way. How does it all relate to each other, I would ask the Minister. Perhaps the Minister also knows how the market players themselves feel about this. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Finally, Mr Van Kesteren has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Welcome, Minister Wiersma, a minister with affinity for the MBO. I was able to experience this during an interview when you arrived, in which you were passionately ventilated. I was glad to hear that. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet strives for equal opportunities in education. The so-called flow test, introduced in the present legislative changes, could help in this. However, the flow test is nothing but the advance of the decline period of the final test. The cabinet wants to shorten the time between school advice and flow test in primary education. School advice and test results thus become available earlier, so that there is still a generous time for all primary school pupils to make a choice simultaneously for the secondary school that follows. Equal opportunities, perhaps on paper. Mr. Chairman. The present legislative changes in which the flow test is introduced would nullify the odds of students, but the Cito final test shows a clear final level of the primary school student. The Cito final test provides an insight into the level of secondary education at the end of Group 8 at which the student can further develop his or her talents and interests at his or her level. Moreover, the Cito final test has long since ceased to lead the school advice. This change is already an improvement in itself, especially for the position of the teacher; an improvement that does justice to his professionalism, his authority and his expertise. The results of this test allow the school advice to be increased further afterwards. Mr. Chairman. Then there is something about being able to choose from different flow tests, from companies and one from the government. Public authorities and market players therefore provide the flow tests. The PVV Group has reservations about this. Let me explain to you why. This can lead to a proliferation of recognised flow tests, thereby increasing the risk of government becoming too dependent on commercial parties. We must avoid this dependence, especially as we have seen from the recent past that market forces do not always work out as well, as you can see in the healthcare sector. That is a poignant example. As far as our group is concerned, therefore, health and education can be seen as sectors of public benefit providing services of general social interest. For this reason, it seems to us better that the flow test remains in the hands of the government. So not everything in education has to be done for the PVV group. Not every change, not every education renewal is an improvement. Something that is good, you should leave it that way; so should the central final test. The PVV Group fears that the abolition of the central final test is a prelude to the eventual establishment of a broad secondary school, or the re-launch of the failed middle school. We must really avoid this, because this development of later selection and differentiation in practice has a levelling effect on the level, and that this is precisely the reason for the inequality of opportunities. Potential gymnasians are malnourished and the more practical pupils are hardly given the opportunity to learn a craft. This is very detrimental to the further development of the talents and interests of the different students. In practice, it means that it is hard for the teacher in a wide class to do justice to all those different levels. It's beautiful in theory, but impossible in practice. The central final test is therefore of added value and we should not abolish it and exchange it for a so-called performance measuring flow test. The aim of equality of opportunity is generally to give pupils the opportunity to obtain the highest form of general education, because general education seems to still have a higher status than, for example, vocational education. The Minister recently said in that interview that he particularly cherishes the MBO. That is an encouraging position, my group believes. The PVV Group is therefore in favour of maintaining the central final test in primary education. Keys give insight into the educational quality and the level of knowledge and skill of the students. The Cito entrance test, which is part of the apprenticeship tracking system, and the Cito final test, which provides insight into the final level of the primary school period, are excellent tools for this. I would also like to return to Mr Pijlman's speech, in which he made it very clear that if you advance that period of tests and advice for the school advice, the motivation of children will be removed. That's true. I've had that experience myself in the past. I fully support that. You must ensure that the period following that early review becomes a lost learning period. That's what I agree with, and I agree with it. I experienced that myself in my practical situation. The PVV Group advocates a reduction of a central final test prior to final school advice. This will prevent pupils from knowingly or unconsciously receiving too little school advice, for example because of prejudice. That has already been mentioned by a number of speakers. As far as PVV is concerned, the central final test is an integral part of the school advice. The abolition of the central final test is therefore unwise. Mr. Chairman. Then there is also criticism of practicing or training Cito keys, the so-called teaching to the test. There is criticism of this test training or exam training because of alleged inequality of opportunity. It would favour students with high socio-economic status. But in practice the absence of test training gives the opposite result. In my opinion, training and practicing for the final test should even be part of the regular curriculum. Then all these homework and further education institutions would be superfluous. If parents need to arrange further training for their offspring to reach a level, this means that the quality of education needs to be improved and that teachers in particular need to be better facilitated, so that they can focus on teaching without unnecessary ballast. Education is teaching, I have already said it in several speeches. In fact, testing stimulates good content education. Keys guide certain cognitive skills and knowledge and skills that are important and help young adults find their way into society. It is about knowledge and skills that children and young adults can maintain. The student's importance could be endorsed by the final test: students know very clearly where their talents lie and which type of school fits in. A broad junior class only ends. Practically established pupils must learn a course and those who are theoretically set up can then further determine their own direction in general education. We are therefore opposed to the abolition of the central final test, which in our view undermines the quality of education. The Cito final test gives a good picture of the development of a child: of the level, of strong and less strong points in which it can develop, of where it may need additional support and of which school and which form of education are best suited to it. I would like to close with a few questions. Can the Minister indicate the importance and opportunities of the primary school child in the current situation, i.e. with the central final test, which can be harmed and how? What's the harm in that? We are therefore concerned with the opportunities, the importance and the way in which that interest is harmed if you maintain the final test. Finally. The PVV Group wants the central final test to be taken before the school advice. This will prevent prejudices from giving too low school advice, either consciously or unconsciously. For the PVV group, the central final test at the end of the primary school period is an integral part of the final school advice. Last question: can the Minister indicate whether the introduction of the so-called flow test can be seen as a way to introduce an extended secondary school, or worse, for the possible re-introducing of the middle school? Of course, we must never experience that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the sitting for a break, partly in connection with a number of committee meetings that are to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u38	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35671, Amendment of a number of education laws relating to adjustments in the field of the transfer of primary education to secondary education. We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u39	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the members of your Chamber for their congratulations. They're very much appreciated. I am here today for the first time as Minister for Primary and Advanced Education. That is a very special and, above all, honourable moment for me. It's nice to be able to experience this so quickly in my career as a minister. Since my arrival, more than three weeks ago, I say the following, which is a bit of my motto. I want to see and hear a great deal from education, so that there is not only the feeling there, but it is also very clearly seen with them, from the ideas there, that we are shaping the policy here, not the other way around. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to all those contacts in the field, but also to the cooperation with you, with this Chamber, and to an especially productive time with each other. Having heard all the speakers today, we have a lot to do. There are a lot of wishes, by the way, also in the coalition agreement. If it's okay, we're gonna see each other a lot for that. I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. I say to Mr Van Kesteren: it can also be done from a broad junior level. Here is also a child from a broad junior class, and that also looks nice here. Then the final test. It's been a while for a lot of people, including me. That is the subject we are discussing today: the annual final test in primary education. In the future, we're going to call that flow test. I'm sure you know from the past that this is such an exciting moment. 'Cause, yeah, you have to learn something for it, and it depends on it for your gut. Anyway, a new future beckons: to seventh grade and then the basic road for your future. That's exciting and very important. It is very important that everything around that test is very well arranged, that you can trust that it is well arranged and that every child, every student, who is given equal opportunity to then flow into a beautiful school that is most appropriate. Mr. Chairman. The reality is that it can do even better. That's why we're here today. I would like to say that it has to be even better. That's what we're doing with this bill. In fact, that lays the foundation for a clearer, better, perhaps even more honest final test. I'm just saying you can still go a lot of directions from there. So this bill lays the foundations and takes a good step. I think that's a necessary step. I'll say something about that in a moment. I say to reassure Members of Parliament with a number of different perspectives that there are still a lot of choices to be made from there, and that they need to be made, how to shape even better the equality of opportunity. So, no, unfortunately, after this bill, it's not over. In fact, maybe it won't start until then. With this legislative proposal, we will create a future-proof system of credits and thus lay the groundwork for equal opportunities for every student. That's important. Before I go into the details of the questions asked, I will first briefly outline what this proposal is intended to provide a solution for. This concerns the context. Firstly, we have seen that the current system of the final test is actually unnecessarily complex. This has also been demonstrated by evaluations. That makes it vulnerable. I'm afraid we've seen the same thing. Sometimes it even leads to incidents. In 2019, for example, 20,000 students received incorrect test advice. With this bill, we solve these vulnerabilities and ensure a reliable, comparable and high quality review for all. That's important. That's one pile under this bill, you might say. The second point. In the current system you can see that for some students the chances are indeed less. To make it concrete: every year about 16,000 students receive a revised advice after their final test. Of this group, about 2,000 students do not end up at the school or the level of their choice, because, for example, there are no places after the updated advice. Of course, that's something we shouldn't want. That is why we also use the flow test in this bill to ensure that every student has an equal chance of going to high school that best suits him or her. Of course, I am aware that this is not going to solve the inequality of opportunity in education at once, but inequality of opportunity is a multi-headed monster and this step is very helpful. We must seize every opportunity to counter them. Mr. Chairman. I will now go into some of your Chamber's questions in detail. I appreciate that very much, by the way, because it promises to be a very nice discussion of the substance. That seems to me to be a good kick-off from cooperation on this in the years to come. I have two blocks, first of all the measures to make the system less complex and vulnerable, and then the measures on equal opportunities, on which many questions have also been asked by your Chamber. That's what I'm gonna come up with after that. Finally, I have a number of other questions that I will be passing through. I come first to the system and immediately begin with the questions that have been asked about it. Mrs Fiers asks: can the Minister reflect on the Council of State's opinion on abolishing the central final test? That is a fair question; I also like it. The basis on which we look at this bill is that we want to make the comparability of flow tests as solid as possible, because it will ensure equal opportunities for every student as well as possible. The Council of State is actually saying that you can only abolish the central final test if the various private tests are comparable. I share that point of view. The quality must be beyond doubt and the comparability must be good before you can do so. The introduction of the joint anchor............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As I informed your Chamber last Friday, improvements are still possible in the area of standardisation. Therefore, from this year onwards, all test providers have the same standardisation process. But it does show that sometimes it's quite a challenge. That's why this bill is all the more necessary, you might say. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA and also Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP asked about the government test. It's being offered. In doing so, we address the fact that schools always have the option of choosing the test offered by the government and meeting the same quality requirements as market tests. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were asked about the concrete arguments for abolishing the central test and the underlying analysis. The answer is that with this legislative proposal we organise the quality of the tests, including the government test, under one responsibility, namely under the CvTE. That's different now. The CvTE is independent in its task exercise, but will also be responsible for monitoring the quality and reliability of the content of flow tests, as well as ensuring a uniform, thus comparable standard. That is a major change from now on, because now you actually have two separate legal procedures. You have an expert group and you still have the CvTE, and that leads to several incidents. That is not desirable; that is what we want to combat. That is why we can better replace the central final test to the idea of the cabinet with this flow-through test. This is also an improvement on the current situation. Moreover, the amendment tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld has led to Stichting Cito now also offering a public test. I was asked to reflect on that. Let me say that I understand that lock on the door very well. We can hope for good market tests. We must also do everything we can to recognise and monitor this. At the same time, it is up to the government to always guarantee a basis, and that is this test. So I am pleased to see that this amendment is moving forward. Then the PvdA asked: does the Minister agree with us that it is important to have insight into the motivation why schools use a different flow test than the government test? It is good to realise that the opportunity to do so comes from an amendment from 2013 to the legislative proposal that we are now discussing and amending. That is an amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Schouten to allow multiple providers of the test, for which all parties in the Chamber have voted except the PVV. So it is not a hobby of someone in the cabinet who thinks: we are going to bring in the market parties. It was then the express wish of CDA and Christian Union, supported by the entire Chamber, to create that possibility. That is what this proposal provides for. By the way, the arguments for such a test, but also for several providers, stand in the final evaluation carried out by Oberon. It was discussed with the Chamber in June 2019. That's actually the basis for this bill. It has also shown that aspects of the test that motivate the choice of schools, such as the method of purchasing, the duration of purchase and the adaptive character, can also be very well regulated in private tests. This is evident not only from research but also from practice. 60% of schools offer one of these tests. In doing so, schools themselves show their choice and appreciation for these tests. As we have seen, the evaluation of schools towards suppliers is also very positive. At the time, we took this very strongly into account in the evaluation and weighting of this bill. At the same time, we guard the freedom of a school to choose a test, but also the basis that must be there, in any case, from the government. That combination strengthens this bill, partly through treatment in the Chamber. That is a good example of how this can be done between cabinet and chamber. The CvTE is also entrusted with the evaluation of the various tests, is a question from D66. It is important that different providers in the diversity we now have can continue to learn from each other. That is actually also a question of reflecting on the tasks of the CvTE. Key providers can learn from each other. This is also important, especially in the current system. Advice can also be requested in a moment, so quality assurance and quality services are also improved. Due to the work on the joint standardisation of the tests, there is in any case close cooperation between the various test providers, the CvTE and the Ministry of Education. There's a lot of cooperation in that triangle. This keeps each other sharp, despite the individuality in form and content. This leads to a process in which both sides learn something from each other and keep each other sharp to ensure the best test quality for students. Moreover, the CvTE may include a certain feature of a test in its assessment framework for the authorisation of the flow tests if this is also valuable to other providers. With this the CvTE also keeps a grip on the learning aspect, which we want to integrate with each other. Mr. Chairman. I have questions from the CDA about what happens to the financially unequal playing field between the provider of the government test on the one hand and private providers on the other. Schools pay nothing for the test they take. That's important to realize. That's true now, but it's still gonna be. There is therefore no competition on price. Schools apply for a test of their choice and can also base that choice on substantive and didactic considerations. That happens a lot. That is precisely the subject of Article 23 of the Constitution. So the freedom of education comes very clearly to its right here. This also applies to the government test, which is exactly the same as the other tests in terms of content requirements and process. So the quality is not less, but equal. Hence the guarantee in this bill by the CvTE on all keys. In this case, this will be a statutory public task for the Cito with cost-covering funding through the SLOA Act. Thus, the public test is also a guarantee from the public authorities for a high-quality offer of tests in case the market is no longer able to provide them. By the way, the government test will have a number of elements which make it possible to say that it is somewhat more sober. That's a good thing to say. It will therefore only contain the legally required parts and be taken digitally. There's no extra marketing going around. We're not gonna bring that government test to the attention of advertising. Of course, this gives market players the opportunity to choose a good profile for such a test and to distinguish themselves, whereby content and form are, of course, controlled by this structure with the CvTE. I understand how we can ensure a good separation of those roles and responsibilities within Stichting Cito. The CDA asked that question and several questions touched upon it. I understand. In general terms, it is good to mention that the responsibility for assessing and recognising all tests lies with the CvTE. The Cito Foundation only has an advisory role. In addition, the CvTE has the scope to use additional expertise, in addition to that of Stichting Cito. So it doesn't just depend on Stichting Cito. Within Stichting Cito, the various tasks are arranged in such a way that there is a clear separation of people, resources and processes. The Cito Foundation did not develop these frameworks itself. That's also important to say. They are frameworks used in the assessment and standardisation. This responsibility also lies with the CvTE. The CvTE has previously asked other third parties to support this at this stage. There was a Chinese wall in the advice at that time, you might say. In addition, all market players are involved in the consultation, including on the assessment framework. It is good to realize that between Stichting Cito and Cito B.V. there is also a Chinese wall. They both have different supervisory bodies, which also supervise that. The question of the CDA was also how the advice of Stichting Cito to market players relates to the self-offending of the government test. Does the Minister know how the market players feel about that risk? The Cito Foundation can also provide psychometric advice at the request of test providers. Key providers do not need to use this. This advisory task shall be carried out by employees other than the staff engaged in the public test. So that's where you see the divorce. We are also in close contact with the market players. So we are also monitoring this in this way, but they support the line of the proposal and are pleased to be able to make use of the support provided by the Cito Foundation. There is a lot of knowledge and experience that they like to use. The CDA also asked whether there was a risk that Stichting Cito would receive in any way a preferential treatment vis-à-vis market players. The views of the market players on this point were also sought. I mentioned Stichting Cito and the subsidiary, Cito B.V. They're strictly separated, so that's where the Chinese wall is. All keys go through when assessing, allowing and normalizing the flow-through keys the same process. So also Cito B.V., who has also indicated that he wants to take a test, is part of that same process of quality assurance. Since the responsibility for the assessment lies clearly with the CvTE, which lies very clearly there, not with Cito..... we do not see any risk of preferential treatment. But it's a point that we're on alert. If this is going to play, then of course we want to be there in time. Several questions have been asked about evaluations. I will say a little more about this later, but I can easily imagine that this point will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u40	I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answers, especially as regards the relationship between Stichting Cito on the one hand and Cito B.V. on the other. It's also good to hear that the Minister is a little bit broader when you're talking purely about Foundation Cito. That is perhaps the crux of my question. You have one foundation and you still have the e.g. But there is one foundation in which that offer function is added to the tasks that that foundation already has. My question to the Minister was to clarify whether we are talking only about the different types of people involved in these different tasks. Or are we talking about the width of that Chinese wall, like I said? And should I say that is the specific question I would like to put to the Minister that the Minister really wants to extend it beyond the personal separation? And two: what is his opinion on how he can guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u41	Two aspects. There's a divorce between the Cito Foundation and the Cito B.V. If a commercial key is offered, it is based on the e.g. Those are other people and other responsibilities than those who advise the CvTE. The responsibility for recognition lies with the CvTE. That is important to realize, because that is what the recognition for all tests does and that makes use of advice from Cito. That opinion is not necessarily only from Cito, as I said; they can also seek other advice. But with that, that guarantee was initially realized, and also with the fact that there is a Chinese wall between Cito B.V. and Stichting Cito. However, that is without prejudice to the fact that from market players you may get the blame on which that is based and whether there is not too much leaning on the knowledge of Stichting Cito. That's why I'm saying I think it's important to keep an eye on that. At the same time, it would be a shame if we did not use that knowledge of Cito. We must use that knowledge and make it available to other parties. You could say this isn't settled properly right now, and it's very neatly dealt with in this bill. In addition, part of the review is now using the Expert Group, which is actually a much smaller quality framework, because it is a much smaller gremium. The Expert Group itself has said that they do not know whether they can do this well in the future and guarantee the quality. On the contrary, they have explicitly called for additional aid and better quality assurance. We find them in this combination of advice from the Cito Foundation and recognition by the CvTE.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u42	You say it's settled properly. I'd say that's true if you start from the original proposal. But of course that's just... I do not want to call it a looming error, because we also do not need to judge the amendment and its quality. But the House of Representatives has said: Stichting Cito is also going to get that offer function. In essence, therefore, the Minister is right, only the various functions that have now joined the foundation create an additional complication. I understand what the Minister says about the fact that, on the one hand, the committee remains responsible and takes care of that recognition. But then it stays, and that's what my question was that you need Chinese walls, as far as the CDA group is concerned, in the foundation. The question then is how to guarantee it, and that is what the Minister is shooting at in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u43	Mr Doornhof mentions complications. If I could translate it freely, you could also say it could be a risk. Then how do we deal with that risk? That's how I understand the question. I would like to say that I think that in this legislative proposal we are dealing with that risk well, also because ultimately the real competence lies with the CvTE. They lend knowledge and use knowledge, but of course they make the decision. That's important, too. In addition, there is the Cito, which indeed has multiple faces and multiple roles. You have to distinguish it clearly. The commercial role and the foundation are clearly separated with a Chinese wall. But precisely because of the risk that Mr Doornhof sees here, I say that we want to include this in the evaluation. You have to look very clearly at whether this is going to work out in practice as we now think it is going to work out. Do the private parties benefit from the advice, and are the independence and recognition from the CvTE strong enough? Isn't there an interaction between that you wouldn't want and that undermines quality? There could be that risk. We think that we are dealing with it this way, but we need to see if it works in practice. Therefore, this bill will not have an impact on the review until 2024. In the run-up to that, we must continue to have this discussion with these parties. We are already doing that, because we have very strongly involved the market players and they support this model. But we need to continue the conversation in order to avoid the risks you pose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u44	Then I'll ask you again, if you don't mind. If you're going to evaluate, you need to know what the criteria you're testing are, how it actually went. That's why I'm asking the Minister. If, on the one hand, it is said that we are going to pay a little attention to it, because that risk is in it, which people are working on this advice to the committee and which people are engaged in offering it but also advising the market players, we are going to keep an eye on it, what is being done in addition? It occurred in a passage of your primary response. And two, how do you ensure that that broader organisational separation as that state................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because then we also know what we're talking about when we start evaluating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u45	That is in the combination of the questions put by Mr Doornhof. So it is right that he should highlight this, because it will also give us a clearer idea of how to take that point into account in the evaluation. This is partly due to the separation of these roles and responsibilities: how does it work in practice? So we do have that responsibility, also for recognition and assessment: it lies with the CvTE, not Cito. Cito has the advisory function. In the near future, therefore, this will work as well and will also be seen as advice. In addition, Cito has the function of advising the market players. How is that experienced? That is an actual assessment, but also an evaluation by those market players. Moreover, these market players have also been involved in the consultation on the assessment framework, so it has also been considered whether they consider this workable, including the model we choose for this. The double answer to that is yes. But then, of course, we'll ask again what the experience is with this way of working. The same applies to Stichting Cito. Is that divorce very specific between Stichting Cito and Cito B.V.? The question you are asking is whether these different tasks are designed in such a way that there is also a clear separation of people, resources and processes in that Foundation Cito. So that's an evaluation question: is there a clear separation of people, resources and processes? I hope that is the answer. Otherwise, I will see that we still have room for further clarification after this debate. Mr. Chairman. That was the block about the system. Let me see if there are any other specific questions about the system; otherwise I will come to equality of opportunity. Then we'll go to equality of opportunity. A number of questions have been asked, including the question of the Minister's personal ambitions, and that is perhaps the best one. Of course, the questions not only focused on my ambition to end up in the First Chamber, but I think they were mainly focused on my educational ambitions, so I will limit myself to that. What am I gonna do to make a difference? First of all, I like this debate, which shows how important opportunities are in education, and also how important it is, for example, a test and all those moments in education where you want to take someone further with it. I myself mentioned at the beginning the broad seventh grade. That's one that helped with me, I'm just saying. In my time I did not have a Cito test but a JRC test, which was later called CEDIN; that was a different type of test. I don't know if it was better or less. I wanted to tell everyone that I had that Cito score, but I couldn't tell you. That shows that you have to be clear what kind of test you get, what the benefit of that test is, why the school chooses for it and whatever it means for the way parents think about advice. Some of those checks in the box I have experienced less, including the role of my parents, but that also comes back to the questions you asked about that role. In my opinion, Mr Pijlman said about under-advisation that children of parents who have not studied, for example, often receive under-advisation. You can see that also spread regionally. I came from the north, you see that's even more the case, so it really matters where your crib is, so that motivates me enormously. Specifically this theme, review, is quite decisive, but also the time in which you test, the way you test and the age at which you test. Opportunity equality, in addition to strengthening the basic quality, is simply able to learn how to read, compute and write, a very important spearhead of the cabinet in the coalition agreement. Of course, we all want to increase this equality of opportunity, but we must realise that sometimes investment must also be against it. It's not gonna happen by itself. For me, it is divided into two elements. On the one hand, that's the home environment. I have an affinity with that myself. For example, Mr Pijlman mentioned the rich school day. So it matters where you live. That's what we saw in Corona time: if you live in a small house with a lot of children, you don't have a place to withdraw. The teaching materials are also dependent on the wallet. So it matters. It doesn't matter what kind of delay you're going to have and what kind of delay you're going to have to deal with. It's up to us to make sure it doesn't matter. For this equality of opportunity, we have an additional billion in the coalition agreement. That is one aspect. The second is to improve the system. That's a little more boring sometimes, but at least as important, I'd like to say. That's relaxing and allowing the flow between p.o. and vo. Sometimes we have to choose different forms, so that education is better suited to a student. Sometimes we have to improve the differentiation. If you get the mind at a later age or are more ready for certain substances, you should have the opportunity to learn at a later age. You don't have to be dealt with automatically at a young age, so your fate is already hanged on it and you have less chances of flowing through. A few of you called it stacking, like I did. We still see it a lot, but I hear from a lot of people who e-mail me that people who work in education have once stacked themselves and become very motivated to help young people in education, that they have the experience of stacking themselves and less and less through those young people. That's a motivation for me. Regardless of the background, you must have the opportunity to develop and develop yourself. That's my personal ambition, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. Then the advice of the Education Council to select later and to differentiate better. Some of you have asked questions about this. The improvement of the transition from primary to secondary education is a spearhead for the cabinet. I told you. A start has already been made, for example with "chance to advise." That is a campaign that we are campaigning to pay attention in schools to the question of how to do it in the best possible way. We do that through hand-outs and helping the parents. In addition, there are also grant schemes for the heterogeneous secondary class, for example. From the National Education Programme, we are now also making money available for this. 500 applications have already been made. New applications will soon be available again. It is being used massively within the framework of that programme. The Education Council also proposes a further change in the system. In the transition of p.o. The Education Council wants to make changes which have very serious consequences if you implement them fully according to that idea. This requires a number of debates in this Chamber, I should like to say, because these consequences affect very strongly the establishment of secondary education and also the connection to subsequent education. This bill already removes some of the bottlenecks, which is the good news, especially in the procedures and timetable surrounding the school advice. This also contributes to a system in which the final test can continue to fulfil that important guarantee function, which is called the second objective. This guarantee is again important for many pupils and also contributes to equal opportunities in the transition from p.o. to vo. How to weigh this bill, was asked several times. It is a step in the right direction, I would say. The bill doesn't stand in the way of future changes either. That's important, too. We're not gonna go down a path that can't do anything else anymore. It leaves room for other, sometimes more radical, changes in the future. I would like to comment on the content of this report. That's good for the room. I'll send the report to the Chamber. I also include it in a somewhat broader outline of the ambitions in the coalition agreement. At some point, you also feel like and need to know how the cabinet is going to shape the coalition agreement. I'll take that with me in that reaction. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Fiers also asked the question about the heterogeneous and prolonged secondary class. How do we stimulate that? I mentioned the subsidy scheme we have introduced for introducing or extending or extending the wide secondary class. We have this regulation very clearly and it is being used. The National Education Programme has also given us the additional possibilities for this. We also see that this has led to more questions from schools about this. By the way, in the coalition agreement, we also emphasised that ambition. It is, of course, in there, and we will see how we can further promote it, in line with the coalition agreement, so that we can allow as many students as possible to enter such a type of junior class. We're going to inform the House of Representatives about that, too. So I shall come back to that, also in the development I have just mentioned of a number of elements in the government agreement on equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u46	Good to hear about the Minister's personal ambition. In carrying out this personal ambition, he will receive all the support, at least from my group, but also from several groups in this Chamber. We also look forward to the response to the opinion of the Education Council on later selection and internal and better differentiation. Specifically, when can we expect that? As I indicated in my first term, the cabinet only has three years to achieve something concrete of these ambitions. I don't want to pressure the Minister, but I was just wondering when that's about to come our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u47	That is a decent way of Mr Van Apeldoorn not to put pressure on me, but to put pressure on me; for which in itself much understanding. This is right, as I said to Mrs Fiers: it is clear that there is a government agreement full of ambitions, but it is about achieving them. Then we will really do something about the important challenges. We are in the process of responding to that opinion, but at the same time I would very much like to include the question you have asked; I would also like to make a commitment to that. You are asking for this to include the vision and development of the cabinet's plans, and at least to indicate a process or a line: what can you expect and what can you expect? Then that is also the time when we may, later, be able to exchange this with each other. We can do that in an acquaintance with your Chamber; we have not had it yet. In any case, as far as I am concerned, this could also be done informally. But at least we are preparing the response to the opinion. I will involve the ambitions in the coalition agreement. Then it comes to the Chamber, and we can look at it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u48	My second question was indeed: can the Minister also undertake to give a broader view on the issue of reducing inequality of opportunity when it comes to the flow of p.o. to vo. What does that mean in terms of concrete legislation? It's nice that the Secretary of State has agreed to do so. But my first question still stands: what is about the timeline? Are we talking about this year, before the summer, after the summer? Are we talking about next year? When can we have that broader vision plus the response to the advice of the Education Council, which is also there for a while now, I think it is expected from the spring of last year from this minister and from this government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u49	That report's been there for a while. I think that has been deliberately postponed to wait for a new cabinet. That's what's happening now. The new cabinet is working hard to draw up a vision on this. So, yeah, we're gonna send that. I also understand the question when we're going to do that. That's always a bit of a tricky question, because the House of Representatives has asked us to. There we come within three weeks of this being only two weeks now or perhaps a week later also with an overview of how we are going to shape all these plans. But the sooner you want to get it, the less there is; that's also a risk. We are making a thorough substantive reaction and thus also making the connection with the coalition agreement. In any case, the House of Representatives will receive a very short-term letter on how we view this process globally. I imagine that, certainly in the spring, at least before the summer, we can, of course, send that reaction here as well. Let my ambition be that that is fast, so in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u50	Good. Then that is noted. We very much look forward to the Minister's thorough response to the report, including the broader vision, around spring. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u51	I do not know if the issue will be raised, but otherwise I will put forward my question. The coalition agreement says we're going to stimulate. In my contribution, I said that a great deal has already been done in recent years to stimulate and try out. So I'm actually looking for a response from the Minister to the balance between stimulating and regulating. How does he look at that, also reflective of what happened? Together, we have not yet managed to achieve this equality of opportunity in education. So I ask the Minister to zoom in a little bit more on that passage in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u52	I'd like to take that from what I just promised. I understand Mrs Fiers wants more, but I also need some space to put together what the experiences are. What she's saying is true, but before you know it, you're going to have a whole container debate on equal opportunities. For example, that rich school day is something quite different than offering more opportunities to be able to pour in at different times with a broader advice in a broader junior class in a way that suits you. We can really see examples of that. At the same time, the examples I have experienced in my time are now less. It is also a list of what we do: when are we going to select and what does that mean for the more? I think the sooner you select, the more you have to differentiate. That is exactly the essence of the opinion, but there are also a number of ambitions of the coalition agreement. So I'd like to get that straight. I would like to make a very large visionary argument here about how this has been related to what we are about to do over the past ten years and whether it is going to work, giving us the guarantee that it will work now, but I think we need some more debates in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u53	One more follow-up question. Okay, the ten-year reflection may be a little too much to ask for this debate, but I'm sure there's been a lot of talk before the coalition agreement about how that should be written down. It could have been there in a lot of different ways. It says: we are going to encourage that transition to be better. I assume that something of an image has emerged between the parties about "how then?'. So I'm still looking for a little more explanation of that one sentence in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u54	I understand that question, because of course there is a bigger thought behind it and an interpretation. The bigger thought behind it is what we were actually talking about, which is that it really matters where you come from, which is your background for the odds you get next. It's incredibly hard work in education not to let that matter. Let that be clear, because I can only stand here because of the opportunities I have had and because of the support in the back of good teachers. It happens every day. So every day teachers do this. The question is: how can we help them even better to make that even easier? As you make that more concrete, you'll end up in a political debate, but it's the first thing we want it to get better. That's the big story. That is the almost Dutch promise that you will move forward with hard work and good education and that you can trust that you will build a bright future. Both when it comes to reading, calculating and writing basics and about the odds and the odds and the odds where you come from, we see that that is not good enough. So that's where the great ambition is. Then you have the fill-in. Which buttons can you turn on? You've got the perimeter. I mentioned the home environment and as an example the rich school day. But it's also about the moments you select. So then it's about the broad middle class, about allowing multiple moments to differentiate in education. Those examples are there. Nor was it for nothing that I mentioned the broad secondary school as an example of what we are already paying extra money for in the National Education Programme. 500 applications have already been made for this scheme, because it also provides for a need for schools. The schools often see what is needed or do it already. The best thing would be if we could help make that bigger faster. There are a lot of good examples, but we sometimes have to give them even more space and sometimes also make them bigger faster. So I'd like to try that with those examples. Some of them are in the coalition agreement, but I will go into more detail in what I have just promised. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV asks: can the Minister indicate whether the introduction of the flow test can be seen as an up-to-date measure for an extended secondary school or, worse still, the introduction of the middle school? There is a tension on this theme in the Chamber, I notice here. Let me say first of all that the introduction of the flow test now removes bottlenecks in the procedure and in the timetable for school advice, in the take-off of tests and also in the transition from primary to secondary education. There are a number of bottlenecks there, and this bill does something about that. That just makes it better. This is how you lay the foundation. This is without prejudice to the fact that you will then have to look at the further details and that you may differ on what is wise in them or not. I just said to Mrs Fiers that the coalition agreement does choose some of those options. I just said something about the plans for, for example, the broad junior level. That's what this bill leaves room for. It's not automatically a consequence of this bill, not at all, so you can look at it in isolation. It is without prejudice to the fact that, as a cabinet, we are going to develop a vision and take great steps towards equality of opportunity, and that in some cases this issue can lead to more opportunities. That's why I started it. If that's what it leads to, it's okay. Then we'll have to look at it and not shove it aside. If it does not lead to this, then it should not be some kind of ideology in education: it has to be this way. It's not automatic; it's not a mold that always works for everyone. It's a way of looking at who does. I would like to fill in that space and then discuss the details with your Chamber. Mrs Fiers asks: what concrete effect does a central reporting moment have on combating inequality of opportunity; is this a drop on a glowing record or is this the first step? I just said it's an important first step. First of all, in the new system, the final test contributes to equality of opportunity, because of the fact that such a test exists. It gives an objective second fact in addition to the school advice. We often see that that helps where the odds may not always lie. At the moment, students with an updated advice have a seven-fold less chance of attending school but also at the level of their preference. This bill now proposes a central registration moment in the week before 1 April. This equalizes the student's chances of entering the class of preference for everyone. This reduces the odds gap. I told you before, he's a very stubborn monster. Is that enough to reduce it? No, of course not. Never, I'd like to say. In the future, we will have to constantly, perhaps much more than we do now, be aware that the world will change, how the world will work on you, what it will do for your parents, for their work, for the opportunities they will have, and that it will do something for the opportunities you will have as a student, as a child of those parents. Those circumstances... I was Secretary of State for Social Affairs before that. For example, we saw working poor, a lot of poverty, great poverty among children. That makes me think that it will be even more relevant to work hard on this in the future. Let me put it this way. Mr. Chairman. Equality of opportunity is a complex problem. The cabinet will present further plans for this. At least it's a no regret, you might say, to take this step together. This is a step in the right direction, but it does not make other future steps predestined, I also say to Mr Van Kesteren. We can further elaborate on that with each other. Then why can't the central registration moment be later in the year, Mr Van Apeldoorn asks. The central login moment takes place in the last week before 1 April. The research firm I mentioned, Oberon, has carried out an analysis of the desirability of a central registration moment and what is the appropriate time. A later login moment creates a number of problems as we saw. One: the secondary class layout and the drawing up of the formation plan do not always come about. Two: there is no room for a possible lottery process. Three: there is also no room for collecting an educational report. And four: the warm transfer in decision-making on the placement of pupils can no longer take place properly. A later check-in time ensures that parents and students only get a decision about the vo-school where the child goes during the summer holidays. The question is whether this is the best way to prepare for new students. The question that comes with this is that of Mr Pijlman of D66: what are the chances that the period after the test will not be fully exploited? And is the inspection going to supervise that? The name "throughput key" indicates that the time when the key is taken is not the end point of the development. Both in the months after the final test in grade eight and in secondary education there are still a lot of opportunities to develop. Research that we have had done earlier, for example by the Kohnstamm Institute, shows that the earlier taking of the final test has no effect on the actual teaching time of pupils. Education professionals have also indicated this themselves. They also see it as their core task to provide the best preparation for secondary education. This sometimes gives a little more space to do it right. Then you can even better match it to what is needed after that, in secondary education. I do think it is important that the inspection should also monitor the quality of the education that students receive afterwards, that we should explicitly look at, monitor and include in the evaluation the moment after the final test has been taken. It is good to realise that 80% of schools are still well ahead of that April 1. I shall come back to the motion that was tabled on that later date, but 80% of the schools are already late than it actually is today. It can be done now from January, February, but you already see schools much earlier. This clearly affects people who in one way or another are under-advised and then do not have sufficient guarantees for a good place in the school of their choice. Now it's not settled, but with that April 1, we're gonna settle it right in the law. Then you can then disagree on whether it should go further backwards or not, but at least it will be settled where it is not now, in current practice, settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u55	My question was why the central login moment can't be delayed. That question also lived with the groups of GroenLinks, PvdA and D66. The Minister said that it had been investigated and that it would have caused all kinds of problems. I know the problems the Secretary of State is putting forward. At least I have already noted that this is seen as such, but that is particularly seen by the vo-schools. Primary education sees that differently. It is a problem that has to be dealt with by the warm transfer, with formation and so on. I can get into that, but I'm also from the school that problems are there to be solved. If there are good arguments to plan that login moment and with that also the key a little later, then you could see if we can solve those problems? In my opinion, there has also been an exchange in the House of Representatives that this is not such a problem for a lot of vo-schools, that she should not know about the placement in March, late March or before 1 April. So that's where we're going. In the past, the login time has also been a bit later. Has the government also considered to see if they can solve the problems that might be linked to a later notification, in order to realize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u56	Yeah, we've considered that. That was looked into in Oberon's investigation. I mentioned all the problems that emerged from that. Those are not problems the Ministry has invented, but they come from the schools very clearly. But there has also been a study of the effect of the Kohnstamm Institute if you do this earlier, also after that on the motivation of students. I think this is a point to take, because the Chamber itself asked for it, but I would like to say that we need to separate that discussion. On the one hand, this bill sets a date where there is currently, in practice, no date. For 80% of the schools, April 1 is already a later registration moment. Many schools are well ahead, sometimes already January, February. By marking a point in the law now, we are improving that moment for a lot of students. So it's not like we don't want to move that login point back. We'll move that backwards if you compare it to current practice. That's important to realize. In addition, the Chamber asks: is that maximum or can you add anything to it? I'll follow that request. I also follow that request for two reasons, also because this draft law will not have an effect on the pupils until 2024. Over the next two years, we will have to deal with the current legislation and we will have to make efforts to make this notification as late as possible. We have developed material from the Ministry for this purpose. There is information material and advice for schools. We really stand in the direction of schools, too, to do so as late as possible. But we are a little disappointed because we have not highlighted a very clear moment in the legislation. We'll do that with this bill. Of course, you can still believe that it should be even further in time. Then we got at odds with the practical implications, which we also found in the investigation. You can then wait a while with the entry into force, or do it this way and take this point very explicitly, including in the evaluation. The latter is the cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u57	I hear the Minister's answer, but there are two different points. It's about the login moment. If we adopt this bill here, it's gonna be in the law. Of course, it's also about the flow-through test. These subjects are of course interrelated. That test is now also planned in a certain week, in the second half of February. That's for sure. Well, there's been a lot of talk about that investigation. What effect does it have if you take that test sooner or later? But have you also looked at the effect on students? In my opinion, it is very logical that a certain tension falls away from everyone when you have had that test and that a certain incentive falls away. What is the impact of this on the effective research time? The minister just mentioned the following. There is a ruling from the House of Representatives to put the central registration moment as late as possible. The minister says we're going to investigate. Is the statement that that is being examined the way the Minister intends to implement that motion? What can we really expect from that point of view? Behind that motion, the message is that the House of Representatives doesn't think that central registration is ideal right now. I agree with that from the First Chamber on behalf of my group. As far as we're concerned, it could have been better later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u58	Mr Van Apeldoorn himself mentioned in his speech that you could say that there is a kind of double message in that motion and the bill. At the same time, this double message is partly there and partly not. I'm honestly saying the motion wasn't clear to me. I wasn't at the filing. After that, of course, I did read the motion. Did the motion go over the period until the new bill, or exactly over the period from the new proposal, or over both periods? We have interpreted the motion as the challenge of trying to do so in both periods. That means now, in the current way of keys... For example, we also made an infographic for that. We have discussed this very strongly with vo-schools. We've drawn attention to it in communication. We're looking at it. We are discussing with school leaders and with a number of organisations the possibility of acting in accordance with that motion over the next two years. In addition, this legislative proposal sets a date that is later than the date that exists in 80% of the current practice. In this way, the legislative proposal meets the wishes of that motion. But I also hear the concerns about what this means for motivation. The organization should actually be a subordinate reason in choosing the moment. It's really about quality and motivation. I understand those concerns. We have dealt with them here, because it is already an improvement on the current situation. We base these motivational aspects on that Kohn stem research. We also say that this is not a given. You have to look at that. I would like to make a firm commitment here that we will again, through an investigation, understand the answer to the question of what such a registration time is doing for motivation. That could be a basis for saying together: that means that we need to adapt something to that. But for that we will have to do more research in that direction. We are going to keep an eye on that. I think that is a relevant point, because it is in accordance with a motion from the House of Representatives, but also because I do not hope that it will work out that way in practice. When research says it's gonna be okay, I think it's something to keep the finger on the wrist. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in 80% of cases, this is a real improvement on the current situation. In that sense, therefore, this legislative proposal is a good step towards further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u59	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u60	Thank you for the commitment. I think it's a good thing the Minister keeps monitoring that. Perhaps this will allow us to look again at the discussion about what is really best and about that central registration moment. So that discussion is not over if we adopt this bill here later. By the way, I am still very interested in the Minister's response to the opinion of the Education Council. If we are going towards a more fundamental revision of the system, then perhaps that notification moment will end at all or will come in another way, with a different advice. So hopefully we will come back to that again with this minister in the next three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u61	That's always the struggle. You're gonna start something. In that sense, that is a good step. Before it's introduced, we're gonna be two years away. Then we'll have another discussion. Then we're back to business. But before that is in policy again... You know more about it than I do, but it's all pretty incremental. It is a great thing in the Netherlands that we take it one step at a time. It's not revolution, it's evolution. But that leads in education, I think, to us shaping it very well with each other, but sometimes the steps are a little less large. That's what you can see from this bill, but that doesn't make it any less necessary. I would like to emphasise this here, because I believe that this step will help to ensure that both equal opportunities and the quality of pupils are better guaranteed, in order to also maintain the motivation of pupils. It is therefore a good step, but this is without prejudice to the fact that there are more wishes here and that more is probably needed. But at what level, we will discuss this with each other in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u62	I asked what this bill means for the attention that children will have after that test. I think you have given a satisfactory answer. You are also prepared to review it over time. Then you say: it doesn't go in until 2024. You said that a few times. Why is that? That's my question. I certainly assumed that we could make use of this at the next test moment. Why does this have to take so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u63	I said it explicitly a few times, because I had that thought myself when I was reading this. I thought: it's probably next year; I understand that it won't work this year, but next year... It has to do with the following. The material you are preparing for this and also the structure you are putting in place for this, with the advice and everything that is put in place at the CvTE, have a lead time, so that you can finally start with this in September next year. This means that the bill in this sense will partly run from January next year, but for the actual preparation afterwards you will automatically come out on February 2024. After all, the law will enter into force on 1 January; we are still examining the legislative proposal. As far as I am concerned, this could have been done more quickly, but I think it has been given a lot of thought and it has been seen that this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u64	If you're assuming 2024, then you have to do this for a few years, and then it's 2027 or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u65	Then you're all still here; we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u66	Not here, I hope, but where we're supposed to be. But what's the point of this? That's all I care about. Can't we just speed up this entire trajectory? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u67	The point is that we are aligning a number of things that have grown so much. So we're making one oversight of the CvTE. That makes it clearer. That makes the comparability greater. We're gonna take care of the login moment. The meaning of this should therefore not, as far as I am concerned, be called into question. I think it's a good thing that D66 is encouraging us to speed this up. In the Lower House that was even less, so I put it in my pocket. I get it; if we're going to make improvements with each other that do something with the status quo that makes it better, but that doesn't automatically solve everything that we want to make better, then you also want to get it in as soon as possible. I get that. I can't do magic, I tell Mr. Pijlman. I'd like to. If I had magic, I'd have done it faster. I'm definitely gonna see what's possible, but I think we should be realistic. I've seen the schedule. It's also in the bill. It's pretty solid. In the end, we do not want to make mistakes in final tests and in what is now called the 'flow test'. So we have to do this carefully. We have to give these parties room for that. You know that answer, but it is part of the legislator's job to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u68	Absolutely. I have referred to the fact that I may have intended to take a different position from that of the House of Representatives. You have also convinced me of the 80%. Honestly, I didn't know that. I'm telling you the truth. Then you have an additional argument. I would, however, like you to look again at whether you will not be able to deal with this in 2023. In 2025 we probably started those follow-up steps by now. It could be very helpful if we made a little bit more speed. I think it should be possible. I would also recommend challenging the private parties and the parties that supervise the whole system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u69	That's the encouragement I always take. In the second term, I will come back specifically to what is realistic and what is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u70	Mrs Fiers on behalf of the Labour Party and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u71	Yeah, that's it, Mr. Chairman. Just a few words about the concerns that have been expressed about the test period going to 1 April. That's when the students can hang back. We now come to a question of time: when will it be introduced? Then we're going to evaluate it. Ten years later, we might find out that it was. I'm looking for if the Minister has thought about that. It has just been said that attempts are being made to draw all schools as close as possible to 1 April, because then we will have that out of the world. That's what infographics are made for and all kinds of advertising campaigns. Is there any action towards the schools to see if this is a risk? Several people indicate that they are concerned about that moment. Is the minister looking at the schools to see if there's anything we can learn from each other? What can we do to ensure that this risk does not occur? We can start evaluating, but it's a bit of a shame to find out later. Maybe there's something you can do preventively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u72	That is how we understood the encouragement of the Chamber. We've already taken some steps. I mentioned earlier the promising advice. This is such an example that we are trying to provide assistance to schools and teachers who are involved in this, but also to parents who also need to know how this advice goes. We are very much trying to bring that to the attention of the House. That is also the message of the motion: make that notification as late as possible. That is an explicit appeal. I'll do that here, too. We offer all kinds of materials to do that. We have shared this message in many ways. With the PO-Council, VO-Council, the Teachers' Collective, the school leaders: with these parties we have picked up that message. We're gonna see if it lands right now. I understand that question very well, because it is a valid point. By the summer we will see if it is possible for the school year after this to work with this in the run-up to the entry into force of the central registration moment. Then you anticipate, as Mr Pijlman almost suggests, at the signing-in moment of April 1st. Then that 80% comes back, for which this is an improvement. So I am trying to anticipate it explicitly, just to make an advance on the formal question that I am going to answer in the second term. This is already helping, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u73	Maybe I haven't been entirely clear with my first question. I understand the stimulation and sharing of knowledge on the way to April 1st. But the concern is also that if the advice is there, in that last period only the school musical is central and little else happens. Those teachers are obviously motivated to make all kinds of things out of it, but perhaps the students are less so. The question is whether we are thinking about what we can do, the field of education with all those creative teachers first, to make sure that that period does not go away. I am particularly looking for that period after 1 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u74	Clear. Thank you for this clarification. I also have to clarify myself now, I fear, because I meant earlier to say that we want to do that type of research again very clearly on this point. Research has been done by Kohnstamm, for example. It is about looking at what current practice does for the motivation of students and what a later moment does for the motivation of students. We also want to know what else to do, or what more to do in education to guarantee that. I would like to make that very clear. So that's a commitment I thought I just did, but maybe I didn't make that clear enough to re-examine it, take it and monitor it, so we can keep track of the effects. In addition to the insights on which we have based this bill, we also gain new insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u75	Communicating remains very difficult, doesn't it? Actually, my plea was: we can investigate that. Maybe it'll take until 2027 to get an answer. With a bit of a healthy sense of farming, we may also know that this is the issue. The plea is then to see whether smart things can be said about this sooner, at the same time as the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u76	I understand that wish, but then I'll take one step back, I'll tell Mrs. Fiers. That is, of course, why we base this bill on research, precisely on this point, for example, from the Kohnstam Institute. Some MPs say: yes, but is that absolutely true? One study doesn't make a summer either. How does it work out in practice? I am convinced that if we continue with the investigations we have carried out, such as those of the Kohnstam Institute, this will not affect the motivation of students. It is the education professionals' honour to not do everything they can to prepare the students for secondary education as well as possible after that test. I find that this requires a little faith in them. They're not gonna do school musicals for two or three months. If we're gonna tell them all day, maybe they're gonna. Let us then tell each other that we think it is so important that you do a good preparation with your students for the follow-up. Research shows that it is not at the expense of motivation. I get the question, is that so? This is partly a political wish, but partly a concern. That is why I undertake to carry out further research into it and to include it explicitly in how we are about to look at this law. I hope that will be possible with the approval of Mrs Fiers, Mr President. Then I have one more question in this block: how big does the Minister consider the chance that commercial test providers will also offer support packages for payment to prepare children for the test? Are agreements made on this kind of probability inequality through preparation for private tests? It is also a question of making teaching packages available or not to practice with them. There are currently no indications that it is important to know that test providers offer schools for payment packages to prepare students for the test. I will say that with the message that we are alert, because we do not want this. Key providers ask schools to take test tests, but that's something else. This does not follow a test opinion, but only a percentage of questions that are well-made. The only purpose of this is to improve the quality of the test. No payment is requested for these test tests. Because schools take these test tests, test providers know whether the questions they want to include in the final test are good, or whether they are too easy or too difficult. This bill does not propose any changes, therefore no adjustment directly related to test training, also because the content of the test does not change with this proclamation, as we are about to see. It is therefore expected that the effect on test training will not change, unless a moving insight shows that it is more common in practice. But we don't see that right now. If we do get indications that this would be the case or if test providers offer the packages to schools for a fee, we will, of course, talk about this, including the providers. Mr. Chairman. I have a few other questions. This was the block about opportunity inequality. I'm gonna see if there's anything left. If that's not the case, I'll continue with the "other" block, and we'll be almost there. The VVD asks: can the minister reflect on the transition of p.o. to vo during the pandemic? Did students pass to the right advice, despite the pandemic? The transition of p.o. In corona time, not all pupils have been equally successful and beneficial. That's worrying. That is why it is particularly nice that, fortunately, we have been able to pass a school test in the last year. We're going to make it happen this year too, because that'll help. We also see that the final test opinions and the influx into secondary education in the previous school year, 2019-2020, were on average slightly lower than before. So there's an effect. This is also the reason why we offer extra help from the National Education Programme. We have the grant scheme capabilities tests, precisely to provide extra help where you want to better follow and help students. I mentioned earlier the subsidy scheme heterogeneous bridge classes, the broad bridge classes. That gives an extra boost to deferment of selection, you might say. In the last year, with the field parties, which has already been mentioned, there has been a campaign of Kansrijk advising, precisely to ensure the flow of the p.o. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Last year advice was quite complex, also due to possible learning disadvantages. We hope this year will be a little better. Anyway, it's not for nothing that we have the Education Programme and that it's still going on for next year. We must realise that there are delays and, in particular, delays. It takes action, and we take action. We see that the actions taken so far have had an effect, because the placement and influx into secondary education have recovered to the pre-corona pandemic level in the 2020-2021 school year. We remain students who switched from the p.o. during the corona period. so that we can take appropriate action if it turns out that they somehow don't know how to keep up. That's definitely on the monitor. I'm going to inform the Chamber again about the National Program in April. Then the question by the PvdA about neutrality of the items of the flow test: can the Minister answer the additional written questions that have been asked about this? We were under the impression that we had given an answer, but it was not possible to do so. Well, that could just happen, so I'm gonna do my best to do it now. Then I'll look at Mrs. Fiers and see if I can pass. In the reply, we have said that the CvTE considers in the application of the assessment framework whether the presentation of the items is not offensive to a pupil. That concern is explicitly addressed to the CvTE. By this passage we mean that the presentation of a question should not affect the ability of that question to map the skill of a student. In any case, an offensive question is also valid for the way in which such a question is asked or when a controversial subject is raised................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. An offensive question is a question that, by the way it is presented, is no longer valid and reliable for all pupils. That too is an explicit fuse that we have secured in the CvTE. Of course, not only is the final test now, but also the flow test, which is intended solely to give a fair picture of a student's knowledge and skills. The reference levels of Dutch language, mathematics and mathematics are the benchmark. All other topics, including more controversial themes, are widely addressed in the curriculum, i.e. in the curriculum. In addition, I think it is very important for children to have a broad, rich and honest view of society in education. That is what the coalition agreement states when it comes to teaching materials and also very strongly about social security, and also that we are checking educational resources for discriminatory elements. That's what we're talking to the sector about. But I feel Mrs Fiers' question as a support to do even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u77	We have a little communication thingy. It is not so much a question of 'objection', because of course it is not the intention to take a test with as many offensive themes as possible. That is not an end in itself. It was precisely the things that were left out. It's not about the things that are in it, it's about the things that are left out because of certain views, so you don't see part of reality, which doesn't bring it in structurally. That was the observation of that teaching material. That is often more difficult to see, because if you have a very controversial thing, you can say: we do not think that is appropriate, because that does not contribute at all to what the test is meant for. It's about what's left out. That was also omitted in your answers. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u78	Look, that's sharp. Thanks for the feedback, too. As far as I am concerned, it goes two ways: both controversial things and things that are actually controversial but are no longer mentioned. I know the example. This was also the subject of an article in the newspaper. I share that concern. That was also invested in the CvTE. I do think this is a lively discussion in education. You can see that in more areas than just in the p.o. It helps if that discussion is seen and people are observant and help the CvTE by bringing it up. That would help. So it is also an appeal to all of us to keep an eye on that. We're there. The CvTE can't do that alone, but it's clearly meant in two directions. Hopefully that helped here. One is perhaps easier to observe than the other, which I also acknowledge, but it is very much in line with the objectives of social security set out in the coalition agreement. We are also going to see what role the inspection could have in this. Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn had a question about the Minister's response to the Education Council's report on public/private: does the Minister share concerns about the progressive commercialisation of education? We just touched that a little bit. I also think that this is an interesting report, precisely because we want to guarantee the public character of education. This is also essential in the context of equality of opportunity. This is underlined in that report, but also in the other report mentioned earlier. Especially in the light of the National Education Programme, I am looking at what that money is going to be used for, whether we are seeing something moving forward that we do not want, and whether it benefits public education, which we also intended it for. It'll come back on the monitor. The specific question is when the substantive response will come. I will share this in spring too, because the new cabinet would like to look at that again. I will come back to that with a substantive response, but a little more broadly it is my ambition to look at the whole role of supplementary education in our system. That is a point which rightly often comes back to the political arena and which can also have an impact on equality of opportunity. In that context, I'll take it with me. So you will receive an appreciation from two reports from the Education Council, together with an addition on the piece in the coalition agreement on equality of opportunity. They'll both come in the spring. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u79	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers. It will speak on behalf of the Labour Party and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u80	Thank you. We asked about the Minister's personal ambition in the first term. This was indeed intended as regards equality of opportunity in education. He's limited himself to that, too. However, we welcome his response, which gives us confidence in the fact that this Minister really wants to make a difference. That's a good starting position. Of course, we are very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to the opinion of the Education Council, because it starts with the follow-up and the "how to do it." In view of the Minister's personal ambition, we have high expectations of it. The Minister can then take that into account. On the other hand, it was good to hear that he said that opportunity inequality is a multi-headed monster. So we're gonna have to see what it takes to get this done. I am glad to hear that the Minister also thinks that the law has improved. I do not think that those were his words at all, but that is how I interpret them with the amendment of the House of Representatives not to abolish the government test. So we agree on that, too. Then the assessment of this bill. The Minister said: I think it is a step in the right direction. The PvdA's Lower House Group thought differently. He said: it's a drop on the glowing plate. But I will advise the group to see it as a step in the right direction and I will issue a positive opinion for next week's vote. This applies not only to the group of the PvdA, but also to those of GroenLinks, but who had already voted in favour in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u81	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u82	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for explaining his personal ambition. The supervision comes under the responsibility of one organisation, the CvTE. That is going to ensure a clear standard and that reassures the VVD Group. The evaluation will include the organisational separation of the various roles of the Cito Foundation. The VVD Group also welcomes this. The words "Chinese wall" have often been mentioned. In my other life I work in an international environment where we have been expressly asked not to talk about a "Chinese wall" but an "ethical wall." The VVD Group is pleased to hear that the evaluation includes implementation and compliance with the ethical wall. This law is an improvement and that is what the VVD Group is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the clear and adequate response. He has actually said that he is going to do two things in the coming period: to strengthen the basic quality and to strengthen and improve the system. In the spring we get the reactions to the Education Council and the contours of how he wants to work out the government agreement. I look forward to that spring, not only for that reason. I said at first: my concern is what happens to the students. You've been very clear about that. Thank you for the commitment that you want to evaluate the impact on teaching time and whether the attention to pupils remains constant, and that this will also receive the attention of the inspection. We then discussed the date of 1 April. The motion for a resolution on the need for the school advice to be as late as possible is, of course, still there. You've reflected on that, too. I was surprised this doesn't start until '24. You said: I want to see if I can speed it up; we may be able to anticipate it. The entry into force of the bill does not need to be at the same time as a whole. Could you re-examine whether the registration date can start on 1 April next year, while the legislative proposal can be passed later? I hope you'll take another look at that. I would also like to thank you for the debate. It tastes like more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u85	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u86	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, thank you for the answer given by the Minister. They were qualitatively good answers. I couldn't always say that from the previous cabinet in this house. Let's hold this. Thank you for the commitments that are important to my group. We're all looking forward to seeing that. This relatively small bill will not be implemented until 2024. I would almost say that we can leave it at that, because we see more in a fundamental change in the system. We might be able to skip this. However, this fundamental change in the system is not, of course, yet in 2024, even if the Minister is going to do what we hope to do. Considering everything, this is for the time being a step in the right direction and a slight improvement. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal. We are very curious about the Minister's vision, based on his personal ambition, and the response to both important reports of the Education Council. Our expectations are also fairly high. We hope the Minister doesn't disappoint us. The proof of the pudding is in the eating, to put it in English. The Minister says that equality of opportunity is two things. We totally agree with him. On the one hand, it's about the home front, that it shouldn't matter where your crib is and who your parents are. We need to invest in that. On the other hand, we also need to look at a system change. That is at least as important and perhaps even more important. We do not yet know what this change must look like and what the Minister's concrete ideas are about it. We do not know whether we can expect legislation on this during this cabinet period. We hope so, and we look forward to it with tension. Mr Van Kesteren talked about broader bridge classes or that maleized middle school, that strange idea of the PvdA from the seventies. He said: these teachers do not want that at all; this leads to much more workload and much more problems at the vo-schools. However, that depends entirely on how you do it. The workload is too high in the p.o. and the vo. Much more needs to be done about this, as far as my group and other groups are concerned. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a quote from the report of the Education Council which has been discussed so much, namely that schools have to contribute to the system change, subsequent selection and internal differentiation rather than external differentiation, but also that the laws and regulations need to be adapted. I quote the Education Council:'schools must be equipped in terms of human power, financial resources, time, knowledge and skills'. That's a lot to ask, so I think that's an assignment to the minister. Finally, I am already in an injury period, and I welcome the Minister's commitment to respond to the report of the Education Council on commercialisation and privatisation affecting the public character of education. That is a very important point for us. I hope that we will be able to expect concrete legislation from the cabinet in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u87	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u88	Mr. Chairman. It is of course very pleasant to meet this minister, who handled this law in a very clear, clear way. It is, of course, a pity that he could not immediately bring forward all his ambitions and that we were given the prospect of things. But the following was also good to see. Of course, the profession of ruler is not always to defend in this kind of Chamber's legislative proposals. It's the farmer going on and bringing education there. You can see that beaming off from this minister and that's a lot of positivism. Mr. Chairman. There is one point I would like to dwell on. That will not surprise you, because the debate on the matter was a little longer. This concerns the position of the Cito Foundation. I have raised this problem, but I have heard that colleagues experience the same problem. The Cito Foundation now has so many different tasks. How can you unite all these hats? The Minister mentioned two points in particular. One. Know that the CvTE is responsible; the Cito Foundation only advises. Two. Let's wait for the evaluation. But maybe you've seen a little bit that I'm worried about after all. I think it's important to take care of that guarantee now. The Minister has said that it is now well regulated in the law. In my view, the Minister and I differ on that point. I believe that the consequences should have been looked at much more. Perhaps that should have been done in the Lower House, I do not know very well whether by the government in terms of enforcement. That's not really the biggest problem. You could say, "the government test." But more is the point that the task of offering is assigned to the Cito Foundation. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to ask this Chamber for a ruling by means of a motion which I would like to make as follows. The: Mr Doornhof and Mr Pijlman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an amendment by the Lower House will continue to provide for a flow-through test in addition to market participants' tests;]] [[Whereas the Cito Foundation has been entrusted with the task of providing this public test;]] [[Whereas it also has other legal functions which pose the risk of a level playing field;]] [[Whereas it is therefore important to ensure proper separation of roles and responsibilities within this Foundation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, within the Cito Foundation, the performance of the task of providing the public test is organised separately from the performance of its other tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35671-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u89	That was all of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u90	Thank you. Finally, I shall give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber the debate was on the feasibility of the present legislative changes. There was scepticism about the commercial tests and scepticism about the feasibility, including with regard to the advance of the school advice, whether or not with a confirmatory test. In this debate, I have missed the opinion, or the position, of the field of education on this issue. The Education Council was mentioned, which, in my view, does wishful thinking. This council states that more differentiation will be made within the classroom so that students can take different courses, while in practice this appears to be difficult. Later selection is at the expense of smart students. So there is anything but equal opportunities. So I would like to give to this minister: invest in more staff, smaller classes, more expertise in schools, remedial teaching, that sort of thing. And so do the teachers for the class. That's important. The 8.5 billion invested in education could also be partly devoted to this. That's how you do justice to the teacher in front of the class. Mr. Chairman. The Minister shares with us that he himself has been in a broad junior high. This minister has thus been able to develop optimally by stacking in general education. He's got a point. On the other hand, we have also debated opportunities and equality in education. We have discussed the possibility of bringing children to a higher education level in so-called lower socio-economic situations, particularly in that form of education. The stacking is a good example. That's what the Minister himself called it. Can the Minister imagine that the so-called accumulation of children can also be a source of suffering, for example if a child, in a so-called higher socio-economic situation, has to continue to walk on his toes through performance pressure from his environment in order to achieve the highest possible level of general education, while that child's talents lie in vocational education? That is a form of education with unfortunately still a lower status. Is this aspect also taken into account in the rolling out of these legislative amendments? I have also referred in the first term to the malnutrition of, for example, gymnasians in secondary school. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would also like to give this Minister the opportunity to cherish the good and the existing and, above all, to listen to the field of education. And then I don't mean the Education Council, but for example Teachers In Action, Better Education Netherlands and PO in action. These are spontaneous actions and reactions from the field to education policy. Very important! What are we going to notice in this minister's term of office when it comes to upgrading, in particular, vocational education, when it comes to increasing the status of vocational education? Vocational training provides training for professions which have proved to be crucial during the corona crisis. In vocational education, technicians are trained, a profession with a huge shortage in our society. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank this Minister for the constructive debate, despite the fact that we do not agree in all respects and will not agree either. Anyway, thank you very much! So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u93	Mr President, thank you very much. Many thanks to all of you, the members of this Chamber. I thought it was a very nice introduction to the First Chamber. I would also like to get to know all your Members informally, but this was a very good opportunity as well. Maybe the best. So that's good. It was a nice conversation about education. I hope I have been able to commit a number of things that help to continue the conversation, but that I can also build in some guarantees on issues that you have concerns about. 'Cause that's what I get, too. As promised, I will return to some of these concerns. And then at the end I come back to a single loose question. First of all, I would like to mention Mr Pijlman's concern. He asked: could the legislation on the central notification not be introduced earlier? That's what we checked. I have a plan for that, by the way. It's on paper. We can go over them in a moment, but I will give them some text. In order to introduce a central registration moment on 1 April, school advice should be issued before that time, flow tests have been taken and school advice may also be updated. The test is now, at this time, in the period from 15 April to 15 May. In the new system, flow tests are taken in the first two weeks of February. That moment can only shift in the school year 2023-2024. The provision of high-quality tests precedes a rather long time frame for the assessment, authorisation and testing. The CvTE is doing this around May compared to a decrease in February. The CvTE can only deal with applications in May if it has the legal responsibility to allow the tests to be carried out as from 1 January. We are now in February and it is no longer feasible to have the test providers submit the application to the CvTE under the rules of the new system as early as May of this year. The legal task of the CvTE should have taken place a month ago. CvTE and the Cito Foundation are also preparing for this task. That also means hiring staff. That does not happen very quickly in these days, but they are working very hard on it. That about it. Then I come to the question and, with it, the motion of the CDA. I am hearing concerns about the concentration of tasks at the Cito Foundation and how this relates to the market activities of the Cito B.V. I say two things about that and then I come forward with my verdict on the motion. I see that there is a clear ethical wall between both organizations. We therefore also rely on the advisory role of Stichting Cito to give no particular advantage to the e.g. Mr Doornhof of the CDA pointed out that it could be a risk. That is why my predecessor, Mr Slob, promised the House of Representatives, in the evaluation of this bill, to pay particular attention to the position and tasks of the CvTE in the new system, not explicitly having appointed the Cito. I would therefore like to undertake to add this point specifically to Cito's commitment and to include this explicitly in the evaluation. Anyway, then Mr Doornhof came up with a motion and he actually makes up for that commitment, or he formalizes that commitment. He put the care in writing and put it in the motion. I see this as a support for what I said before, and I am happy to accept this. That's how the motion gets judgment, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of questions have been asked, or actually they were more suggestions and wishes, for the time to come. Of course, I'd like to take all of those with me. This also comes to the Chamber in the commitment I have made. Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV asked about the performance pressure in the other direction. I wouldn't call that stacking right away, pushing more, so people walk on their toes. I recognize that, by the way. I won't make the example too specific, but when I got to the mavo, there was someone who went to the vwo. That person was said at the time: well, he's doing better, because he's already going to the vwo. The nasty thing was that the person in question then "slept" to the havo, to the mavo and then to the vbo. I personally think that person has been miserable at that time. I ran the other way after that. I'm very aware of this. I also see people getting a gymnasium advice and then being totally dull at university gaming and no longer motivated to pick up a study. But the other way around, the cases are there. So many people, so many situations. That also means that you have to meet this in instruments, perhaps even more than before, and that the recipe and the mould do not exist. And we shouldn't think that here either. Nor should we say with ideology: it must be this or it must be that. I think we should look for what works for someone, to give them the best basis for the future. I also say to Mr Van Kesteren: for that I talk to everyone, preferably with people who have good solutions. If you don't have that, I'll come too, but I prefer to talk to people with a lot of good solutions. And they're everywhere. I've heard a lot of that, too. Whoever hears this and has ideas for it, I say that you can go here: dennis@minocw.nl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u94	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-01-eerstekamer-5.u95	I have come to deal with the bill 35671, amendment of some of the education laws. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I propose that we also vote next week on the motion tabled. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Minister and the staff who made this meeting possible.
