ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Amendment of the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Act (base for measures on the (private) use of plant protection products), Room 35756. We have arrived at the continuation of the first term of the cabinet plus the second term, which will then begin. The Secretary of State, Mrs Heijnen, is present. The MPs are here. Welcome, also to the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate at a distance. The Secretary of State has already responded in writing, but will pick it up at the introduction plus answering a number of questions. After that, Members of Parliament will have the opportunity to interrupt or a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the amendments in the first term, I would like to say a few more general words about the legislative proposal. We have talked a lot about it and that is good, but much also went beyond the intended purpose of this bill. I would therefore like to recall at the beginning of this sitting what the purpose of this bill is, which it does refer to and which it does not concern. I would therefore like to go into the background, the reasons why, the construction of the ban and the way in which previous motions by the Chamber have been taken into account. Let me be clear: I am talking here about the ban on the professional use of plant protection products outside agriculture. Then you have to think of sports fields, roads, pavements, gardens and that kind of example. It is good to realise that we have had that ban since 2017. As you know, the court ruled that the legal basis was insufficient. As a result, the ban was officially abolished. So with the current bill, we are trying to restore it. That is something the Chamber in the Bromet motion has also asked for. This brings the existing, successful practice back to law. I would like to take a step back, because I would like to return to the immediate reason for the ban, namely that too many plant protection products are found in the surface water used for drinking water. For 2017, around 1% of plant protection products were used outside agriculture, but this limited use does cause a very large part of the bottlenecks for the supply of drinking water, up to a few dozen percent. It really is a big impact. In particular, the use on hardening produces a lot of direct emissions into surface water. That is worrying, especially when we know that there are already good, non-chemical alternatives to plant protection on the market. These emissions and bottlenecks are therefore avoidable. For years the voluntary reduction of the use of chemical plant protection products outside agriculture has been drawn, but that has not been successful enough. That is why it has been decided to impose a ban. The Chamber insisted very strongly on this at the time. This made the edges of the playing field clear for all concerned. That ban worked very well. The quality of surface water has already improved considerably in recent years. Many professional users have already switched to non-chemical and mechanical measures. On shopping streets, sports grounds and sites of Rijkswaterstaat, plant protection products are no longer used, but for example hot water or hot air. There is also brushing against weeds. CBS figures from 2019 show that the professional use of plant protection products outside agriculture decreased by around 82% compared to its use in 2013. The ban entered into in 2017 did indeed work well. You can therefore also call the ban a success, because the ban has significantly improved water quality and there is, for example, a significant reduction in high peak loads of fertilizers at drinking water intake points. It also shows that the cost of combating weeds in public space has fallen. For the sake of clarity, the policy is and will continue to focus primarily on adequate plant protection. We have a preferred order based on IPM, Integrated Pest Management. First of all, we want to focus on prevention. That's always step one. We do this, for example, by adjusting existing paving, so that fewer weeds grow. We do that by not laying pavements that are hardly used. We do the same by introducing natural enemies. Step 2 is the use of non-chemical measures. So that's like brushing hot water or shoveling. Step 3 will only be used if the first two are not effective enough. Then you can use chemical plant protection products as the last remedy. So you have to think about very serious things, like the Japanese thousand knot or specific fungi at sports grounds. This approach is in line with the Van den Anker/Ziengs motion. The starting point of the policy is and remains an effective crop protection outside agriculture with ever-decreasing use of chemicals. Given all the ambitions we have in terms of the environment, biodiversity and, in particular, water quality, this is really the route we need to take. The current bill has three parts. I'll check them out briefly. The first part is the restoration of the legal basis of the former ban. This restores the former and successful ban on the professional use of plant protection products outside agriculture. The second point is an additional piece of legislation to allow measures, if necessary a ban, on the private use of plant protection products outside agriculture. This was at the time the explicit wish of the Chamber in the motion-Ouwehand/Schouw of March 2014. I call that a hook in the law, because if we want to effect this, it has to be filled in further. In my last letter I explained that a ban on use or a ban on sales is not legally possible. If other measures are needed, I will return to the Chamber. At the moment, it's not on the table. In my last letter, I have already informed you that producers have stopped producing funds that even contain arthropods for private individuals. The ban on the use of plant protection products in floodplains and outskirts stems from the commitments of the Delta Water Quality approach. This has been explicitly added to the legislative proposal, because these areas primarily have a water storage function. Simply put, these areas are flooded for a long time a year. They can also flood at high tide. Therefore, the use of plant protection products here has a direct impact on water quality. As Minister Harbers has already indicated, the objectives of the Water Framework Directive are challenging. Most of these areas also have a natural function and sometimes also an agricultural function. Mr. Chairman. Last Wednesday, on 22 June, the European Commission published a first draft of a new European regulation on sustainable plant protection. That has received a lot of media attention. We're still at the beginning of this trajectory. A BNC sheet will be sent to you as soon as possible. I would like to mention one key point in this proposal. That is the proposal for a European ban on the use of plant protection products in so-called'sensitive areas', such as areas outside agriculture. I therefore see this European proposal as an explicit support for the legislative proposal that is now before us. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion slowly. I'll sum it up. This bill regulates something we have all agreed on, namely that a ban on the unnecessary use of chemical plant protection products outside agriculture should be properly regulated. Should we have a major problem, for example with oak procession caterpillars or the Japanese thousand knot, chemical agents may still be used. But it must no longer be the normal way of operating plant garden cleaners, gardening services and gardeners to use those resources. In addition, the legislative proposal provides for a ban on the use of plant protection products in floodplains or outskirts. It offers the possibility of banning private use. Those are the brackets in the law, which can be completed later in consultation with your Chamber. We do this with an important aim in mind, namely to protect our drinking water. We know that a ban contributes to better water quality, and we now want to re-establish this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's it, thank you. I see a number of Members of Parliament standing by for some additional questions. I'm gonna finish the list. I saw Mrs Beckerman, on behalf of the SP, first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. In the first period, we have asked many questions about those sensitive areas and vulnerable groups. For example, they were about Natura 2000. The cabinet replied in writing: that is up to the provinces. And now the cabinet is actually giving a different answer. It says: 'Wait a minute, European legislation is coming but it is in line with this legislation.' Will the cabinet now come back to those first-term answers and say that we should actually do more to reduce outside agriculture? Or does the cabinet say, well, this is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u6	I think the proposal before us is a really good one, because it will allow you to work in steps, as we have said before. We are therefore primarily committed to prevention. Then we look at non-chemical pesticides and only in the worst case can we still resort to chemical pesticides, because they are very much needed. It is important, for example, that we look at these weather conditions, because there it can also have an impact on the quality of drinking water. These are important things to take along, but I would like to leave it to the scope of this bill, because it does justice to the policy we have set up in recent years. I also think it is good to see that the policy is already working. So we're actually fixing something. We give it a legal basis, which was missing because the judge had whistled us back because we had to look at it again. We did, and now we're putting forward this bill. In my view, therefore, it gives enough scope to take significant steps while ensuring that these chemical pesticides can still be used in extreme cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u7	But those floodplains are actually the only more far-reaching exception that is included in the law. Does the cabinet say that the European wish goes on, that it will come up with new measures and that this is just a step? Or is this it? This is complicated now. We have received answers in the first term and now the cabinet is actually moving on. What does this mean for the second term? Now the cabinet says, "This is the end of the line"? Or does the cabinet say: no, wait, something is coming from Europe and we are going to expand it later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u8	If regulations come from Europe, we will always have to adopt them as the Netherlands. So if it goes further, we will. I can hardly imagine that Europe will really ban the use of chemical pesticides in emergency situations. But it seems to me very useful to continue to look at whether we are doing well enough anyway. Generally speaking, we as the Netherlands are usually on the ambitious side when legislation comes from Europe, because it is a weighted average. For example, look at sustainable transport. We wanted all cars to be produced electrically from 2030 onwards, while, in a European context, we came to 2035 as a compromise. I therefore assume that we are quite ambitious here again compared to a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u9	Finally, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u10	Of course, that's just the question. The question is whether we are going to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive. Last week, of course, we had a wide-ranging debate on the agricultural side, where measures are being taken. The question now is whether we should not take additional measures outside agriculture and close to other water areas. Because the story that we always do better than Europe wants does not go into this framework directive. And that really is not just about agriculture; it is also about agriculture. The cabinet must agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think it is good that water policy should always be seen at European level. I myself live in Maastricht. If they dump something in the Meuse in Belgium, then via the Meuse it really just enters Maastricht. So it is just as important that you look at how to encourage other countries to take action. However, we must not run away from our own responsibility and ensure that the quality of our drinking water is not unnecessarily under pressure. I think we can guarantee that with the change in the law that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u12	Then Mrs Vestering on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u13	When you listen to the Secretary of State like that, you think it's actually going really well. The proposal before us now concerns 1% of the use of poison in the Netherlands. 1%. It's a good thing we're gonna do that, but you're gonna have 99% left. In answering the questions we asked in the first term, the Secretary of State says that she is not going to ban the use of agricultural poison within and outside agriculture in areas protected under the Water Framework Directive. Fortunately, there is already a European directive which says that this must be banned. Why doesn't the Secretary of State forbid that? Why does the Secretary of State not ensure that the Netherlands, which is really not doing well when it comes to agricultural poison, is at least complying with this European directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u14	This is also my colleague's portfolio on agriculture. I did offer to give him some thought in the debate on this, but that is simply not what this legislative proposal is about. I should therefore like to ask Mr Staghouwer to discuss these questions in particular. I think the committee has done the same before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u15	That's pretty easy. This minister is responsible for the environment and she is responsible for the use of agricultural poison outside agriculture. The Minister replied that she was not going to ban the use of agricultural poison, even outside agriculture, in these specific regions with protected groundwater areas, which, according to the European directive, should be banned. Why doesn't this Secretary of State forbid that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u16	I would like to ask you to deal with the proposal now before us. It fits into European laws and regulations. If there is a revision of European legislation that goes further, we will discuss it with each other, but I think that this legislative proposal now reflects a simple repair of the policy that has already proved effective in recent years. Of course, we must always look where we can do better; I naturally agree with the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mrs. Vestering, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u18	Of course, this doesn't do me any good. The Minister continues to refer to this bill, while she herself replies that she does not comply with that directive. I would like to know why the Secretary of State, excuse me, is not doing so. If that does not work in this debate, I would like to receive the answer to the question of why it does not comply with European directives in writing. If reference is made to any risk assessments, I hope that the Court will also be able to receive this risk assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u19	I would like to respond in writing, but I do not agree with Mrs Vestering that we do not comply with the agreements in force. I do think it is important that we keep looking at how we can improve things. That's just very important. For the rest, I do not want to go into this too much, because this really is out of order. Farmers and ourselves have an interest in the careful handling of the country and its best use. I think that we should always work together to find further solutions to allow plant protection in this sector as well as possible. But I do not want to take too much action in the responsibilities that my colleagues have in this area; they know what the substantive consequences may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you. You say you want to send a letter. On what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'd like to respond. Well, you can do that in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u22	Fine. I see Mrs Vestering is satisfied. I'll take a look. Mr. Bishop first? Yes. Mr. Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I think that the line of prevention and natural and biological pesticides, where you need the medicine cabinet for a while in case of emergency, diseases and plagues, is wise. We support them, too. The Secretary of State referred to the Anker/Ziengs motion, which only asks for a ban on use in exceptional situations, because the Ctgb has already carried out a risk assessment. Now there is a generic ban on professional use outside agriculture. I can't rhyme that well. Would it not have been more convenient to include stricter provisions in the rules of use, including in the field of authorisation, so that, in addition to a generic risk assessment, you do not come up again generically with additional administrative or political considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u24	We simply want to work towards a use outside agriculture in which chemical pesticides are not in principle used. That is what this bill also provides for. So we're trying to keep that use to an absolute minimum, only if it's strictly necessary. I believe that this does justice to the way in which the sector handles it, for example, because, as I indicated, there is virtually no longer production in the Netherlands. In any case, therefore, there is very little room for private individuals, municipalities or whatever to apply chemical pesticides.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u25	I note, however, that the Anker/Ziengs motion is not being implemented. That is something that we must observe solacely, because it only calls for a ban on use in exceptional situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u26	It's more far-reaching, you might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u27	Then it seems to me that the political friends of these former MPs would...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u28	This isn't starting to look like a question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u29	This was more of a friendly observation. May I add one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u30	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u31	This concerns the use in the floodplains and the outer dike areas. I would like to have an insight into this because the load on the water points is falling sharply. I would like to know the impact of these areas on the pollution of water taps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u32	I can promise that we will return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u33	Fantastic, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u34	You're welcome on behalf of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. The beauty of such a repair law is that you can also look back on the effects of altered use of agricultural poison on hardening. I actually think that the Secretary of State is very good at expressing what these positive effects are. It is both better for the quality of drinking water and cheaper for municipalities; it is actually a win-win story on all sides, except for the industry, which can sell less of the poison. We are in the middle of a debate with the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Staghouwer, on the use of poison on grassland. That's actually similar to using on hardening. For two years now, the Chamber has been calling for a ban on this. It is an unpleasant debate, which has also been broken down halfway and is about to continue. The Secretary of State says: I sometimes talk to the Minister about the success of the ban on hardening. Can the Secretary of State tell us a little bit more about the conversation she's having with the Minister of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u36	I have also offered to see what I can do from my portfolio, to see how we can help the agricultural sector to take steps. But I do not want to enter into the powers of my colleague. I wanted to make that clear. I do not think we have the debate on this either today. But I'm always willing to see how we can talk about that at other times, because I can imagine that it's important to take a good look at the overall impact. But, of course, there must be very good alternatives, to name but a few. I've got myself... Then I'm asked to go into the technique more closely, what it means. That's beyond my mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u37	The debate we are having with the Minister for Agriculture focuses on the legal impossibility of anchoring this wish of the Chamber in the law. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to discuss with the Minister of Agriculture, with this bill, the possibilities of banning it. It can be done on hardening, so I think it can be done on grassland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u38	I do not know exactly what Mr Staghouwer had to say in order to reach certain conclusions, but I am always happy to bring to his attention the way in which we have built this up. I'm sure I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr Bishop of the SGP, with his comment on the Van den Anker/Ziengs motion, naturally triggers my alertness, and he does that well. In order to be absolutely sure that this motion will be carried out, I would ask the Secretary of State to review the following. I have heard the Secretary of State say that in exceptional cases there is room to use chemicals, however annoying, for example to combat pests in trees and plants, such as the oak procession caterpillar. Did I hear that right? If I have heard that so well, I can only conclude that this is a literal response to the motion tabled by Mr Van den Anker and Mr Ziengs. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u40	Aha. I'm curious. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u41	Yeah, that's right. There is always room for special cases, whether those are specific fungi or the centenary button or the oak procession caterpillar. Chemical pesticides and plant protection products may then be used. I can confirm that to Mr Haverbort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u42	I welcome my colleague, Mr Van der Molen, who has done this debate in the first term. I was just reading the pieces last night, and Mr Bishop also triggered me. So just so we're clear and for the history of law, the next question. I read in the written reply that the use of plant protection products is no longer permitted in certain areas or circumstances. Then there is a little bit further: 'The ban indicates', and I quote again 'if preventive and non-chemical measures are not sufficiently effective', in response to what was just said by the Secretary of State, 'the use of approved means remains possible as a last resort'. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u43	That's what it says. You just read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u44	Just for confirmation. But then Mr Bishop's remark is not correct. Then there are still possibilities to use resources and the motion by former colleagues Van den Anker and Ziengs is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yes. I could have said that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u46	Then that's a question that answers itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have three amendments to which I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u48	Sure. That's always the request to the Secretary of State. You're gonna appreciate them, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u49	Yes. The amendment in part No. 7 by Mrs Bromet and Mr De Groot and Mr Thijssen on the extension of the legislative proposal. I would like to dissuade that amendment because a far-reaching extension of the power leads to the introduction of bans on use. It will also affect many agricultural areas in practice, and the policy balance lies with the Minister of LNV. The aim of this proposal is to regulate the restoration of the ban on plant protection outside agriculture. If the purpose of the amendment is to protect surface water, it is already covered by the Water Act and the Activity Decision. This could introduce measures to reduce emissions to surface water.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u50	Clear. That means that the amendment to item No. 7 is not recommended. At least that raises a question from Mrs Bromet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u51	I am not happy with that at all, especially since there is no argument at all. We want to protect the water better. This is covered by the Water Framework Directive, but we have seen that a ban on poison on hardening has a major effect on the quality of drinking water. That's only 1% of the use of poison. We want to extend this with our amendment, because we think it is important that water quality improves in the Netherlands. 99% of the water is in poor quality, including by using pesticides. The only argument used to discourage this amendment is that it is not a good time for agriculture. I'm very sorry about that. This shows that the importance of agriculture is considered to be so much greater than the importance of the health of all Dutch people. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u52	The fact that agriculture is not a good time seems to me to be a little too firm. It really lies with the Minister of LNV to conduct the discussion on the substance of what that might mean. Of course, I am always willing, with my environmental cap, to see where we can provide support, but in the end that substantive discussion must first be conducted with the competent minister and with the specialists of that committee to see what the line is. I can then give support in that. I understand that Mrs Bromet's ambitions go a little further than the proposal now before us, but it is important to anchor it, because it really needs to be repaired. It's true now that we do, but it's not legally anchored. I want to take care of that now. Then we can see what we need to do about additional matters. I've been meaning to take care of this for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u53	No misunderstanding: we welcome this repair law and will therefore support the law, but we are happy to take advantage of this moment to add a little ambition to it. That is not because I have a great ambition, but because we have European agreements on the Water Framework Directive. We have to meet this by 2027 and we are at great risk if we do not comply with these agreements. I find it very disappointing that this urgency is not seen by the cabinet. I hope for a majority in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u54	Clear. Sure. Then there is the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u55	That is Vestering's amendment to add a new article to the law to further reduce the use of dangerous plant protection products. I want to dissuade this. The starting point is integrated plant protection with the preferred order that we have already discussed several times. The ban supports that policy, so that the use of plant protection products outside agriculture is only permitted exceptionally. The amendment calls for a generic reduction in the use of plant protection products, and that is not the purpose of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u56	The amendment in part No. 8 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u57	Then there was an amendment by Bishop and Van der Plas to exclude the use of plant protection products containing only basic substances and low-risk active substances. I'd like to advise against that. The starting point is, once again, the integrated plant protection with the preferred order as I mentioned it. For plant protection outside agriculture, preventive and non-chemical measures are generally sufficiently practicable. So you wouldn't need that exception either. An exception for certain types of plant protection products does not serve a management purpose and does not fall within the principles of integrated plant protection. In addition, RIVM concluded in 2015 that switching to low-risk plant protection products for large-scale use may be difficult for water quality. That is an additional reason to discourage the amendment. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u58	The amendment in part No. 10 has also been dissuaded. Let me look around and conclude that we have come to the end of the first term of office. Then we'll go to the second term. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas. We will wait until Mrs Van der Plas is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr. Chairman. Life is a bit hectic right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u60	Sure. All right, all right, all right,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u61	I don't have the prints yet. In fact, I would ask the second speaker to enter the second deadline. When I'm done, I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u62	Sure. We're so smooth. It is a good practice to give each other that space, especially if there is a hectic and colleagues have a small fraction. At least that is the case in practice, but not in the poll. Then we'll go to Mrs. Vestering, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group supports this amendment, as I have just said, but we also think it is far too limited. The use of pesticides outside agriculture accounts for about 1% of total agricultural poison use. I have tabled an amendment with specific aims to reduce the use of the most dangerous agricultural poisons. These substances are known to be highly toxic, difficult to biodegrade, carcinogenic, harmful to reproduction, or hormone disrupting, and substances that accumulate in the food chain, or that can damage human DNA. Setting reduction targets in the law is really necessary. With soft promises, the use of poison just doesn't go down. In fact, the marketing of agricultural poison increased in 2020, despite all voluntary agreements. As for the reaction of the Secretary of State, it simply doesn't help. We're not getting any hits. Mr. Chairman. We are about to have a debate on the use of agricultural poison in agriculture. Then, of course, we will go into this in greater detail. Mr President, I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides (2009/128/EC) pesticides should not be used in areas protected under the Water Framework Directive and in groundwater protection areas;]] [[noting that both the objectives of the Water Framework Directive and those of drinking water quality in the Netherlands are not met, inter alia due to contamination by pesticides;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of pesticides in areas protected under the Water Framework Directive and in groundwater protection areas, both within and outside agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35756-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Vestering. Then we arrived at Mrs Bromet on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion, but, as I said, I do have an amendment. I find it difficult to listen to the Secretary of State. It's like I'm listening to two different realities. On the one hand, there is the inventing of the success of the ban on hardening. As I told you last time, as an employee, I typed that motion a long time ago. It feels really nice that you've been able to change something in the world. On the other hand, there is the debate we are now having on agriculture, as a result of the nitrogen affair, knowing that there is a new affair at risk. That's the water quality affair. I really think that the importance of agriculture is still far too high in relation to this issue. I hope the Secretary of State has a good conversation with her colleague from Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Bromet. I'm just gonna take a look. Mr. Geurts, do you have a question about Mrs. Bromet's second term contribution? She didn't file a motion, so I'm very curious. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u67	It referred to the amendment to item No. 7. That's just been discussed. I was looking at that last night. My specific question to Mrs Bromet: does she realise that this amendment weakens legislation? In the implementation it is supposed to be strengthened, but I expect a legal process to go to court. That is because landowners are no longer able to dispose of their property as they were used to in the past, unexpectedly and without compensation. Does Mrs Bromet, therefore, see that her amendment creates an additional legal process, which will enable the whole of the legislation to be brought to an end? Does she realize that might be the effect? I think that is a very good opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u68	That is in case the amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u69	This is also exemplary for how this dossier is always discussed: something will not be legally sustainable, or the judge will reject it. We saw it in the nitrogen affair. There was also said to the end: well, that doesn't keep it dry with the judge. And see the mess that we see the Netherlands in now. The discussions we have with Mr Staghouwer on the ban on spraying grasslands are also always about the legal consequences. We actually see in today's debate what happens when a producer of poison wins the debate, including in the courts. Then we as the House of Representatives can draw up rules. We're gonna fix a law that's gonna keep the ban going. I believe that we are here to indicate frameworks within which agriculture can operate. This can be done with subsidies, it can be done with taxation, but it can also be done with regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u70	That is a nice answer, but that is not at the heart of my speech. This legislation concerns plant protection products outside agriculture. This amendment draws agriculture into it. So the inscription is essentially changed. For example, there are still a number of arguments to be put forward which I think are: people go to court who would not otherwise have gone there. I think this is because there is such broad support for this legislation here in the Chamber. This amendment makes the law on this point legally so weak, that I am afraid that the judge is about to say again that this law is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u71	People or companies that aren't affected by this law don't go to court right now. And if they do get hit, they'll go to court. That's their right. It's part of the rule of law. We are in favour of looking at what we are doing in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u72	Thank you for your contribution. I would like to give the floor to Mr Grinwis, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize for not being able to attend the Secretary of State's first term, but I am currently following a fantastic debate on box 3. Nice to be with you, too. I brought two motions. The debate was followed very well by my policy officer, so I got everything. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of adhesive strips against the oak procession caterpillar is ineffective and presents high risks of harmful side effects;]] [[whereas the instrument is prohibited as an active substance under the Nature Protection Act, but it is still possible to obtain an exemption from the province;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the possibility of a provincial exemption from the ban on the use of glue as an active substance under the Nature Protection Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35756-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u74	Then the second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a ban on the private use of plant protection products increases the risk of unauthorised use of chlorine and vinegar as a weed control;]] [[Whereas a campaign has been conducted against the private use of arthropods in cooperation with garden centres and has been very effective;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the previous campaign against the private use of satsumas, to cooperate with garden centres and other outlets in order to organise a campaign against the use of chlorine and vinegar as a weed combatant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35756-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr. Chairman. Along this road, I would like to thank you for your written reply and for your reply here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. It is good that you are following two debates at the same time. Please stand still, because I see that Mrs Van der Plas has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u77	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a brief question. I would like to endorse these motions if Mr Grinwis agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u78	You are most welcome, Mrs Van der Plas. I'm sorry, but I haven't had time to collect signatures. Welcome again; two is always more cozy than one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u79	Fine. Then Mrs van der Plas' signature will also be placed under the two motions. Mrs. Vestering has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that you will give Mr Grinwis a moment's breath so that he can catch his breath from attending two debates at the same time. I would like to ask why the Christian Union does not opt for an ecological approach in the fight against the oak processionrups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u81	Could Mrs Vestering clarify this question? I argue against the adhesive strips, because glue strips may seem a bit more friendly than other pesticides, but in practice they are very bad, even because the oak procession caterpillar is much smarter than a glue strip and the first oak procession caterpillar sacrifices for the second et cetera. So I don't quite understand where Mr Vestering is going with this. On the contrary, my motion seems to me to contribute to a more ecological approach and to the fight against the oak processionrups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u82	Then we have clarified this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u83	Okay, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u84	Good. And rest a little, because you were a little high in the breath. Still, it's nice to hear compliments on two debates. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas on behalf of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you. I've decided not to make any motions, but I'd like to say something. I am also pleased that we have been able to have this debate, because it has made a lot of clarification. In the first term, I have been a little unkind to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr Geurts was not present because he replaced Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u87	Oh, then it was a different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u88	That's possible, but it wasn't during the treatment of this law. But you can always do it; I like that of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u89	I'm completely confused. It is true that it was in another debate, namely the debate on the status holders. But can I still use my two minutes to say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u90	I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u91	There's some really weird stuff going on in the Chamber every now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u92	We have the right person, but we have the wrong debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u93	So, in the debate on the status holders, I was a little unkind to Mr Geurts. I called him "that friendly little gentleman." I blurt things out sometimes. Looking back later I thought: Van der Plas, don't do that; you don't want others to do that to you and then you're going to do it yourself. But I was just a little irritated and then it could happen that I say something like that. But I am not too cowardly to go back to that and apologize to Mr Geurts, because it was indeed a bit derogatory. I didn't mean to. I wanted to come back to that at the moment, but in a totally wrong debate. Anyway, there's no other way. On this point, I would like to withdraw it and say that Mr Geurts is not a very 'friendly man' but a very 'friendly gentleman'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you. And thank you for doing so. Mr. Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u95	If there is an apology in this way and on this occasion, I would like to say to Mrs van der Plas that I accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u96	Thank you. Very good, then that's out of the world. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Geurts. However, he indicated that he would not make use of the second term. I give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66 for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the written and oral reply. I did have a question about Mrs Vestering's first amendment from the Animal Party. That amendment actually does exactly what European legislation also requires, namely to set intermediate targets for reducing the use of plant protection products and even, now in the Green Deal, to halve towards 2030. It seems to me to be a very sensible amendment, especially since integrated plant protection is generally used in a voluntary framework. Agreements are being made, but they do not lead to an effective reduction. If you call on the government to do so, it is said: yes, I do not have the legal means to do so, so I have to do it with appointments. In my view, we are helping the government with this amendment by providing precisely the instruments. Not to use that immediately, but to strengthen the negotiating position in the context of the discussion on IPM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u98	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. De Groot. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u99	Thank you. Good afternoon. We want to table two motions on points that we have also made in the first term. This is the first motion in particular. It is about the non-use of pesticides in Natura 2000 sites. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Sustainable Use Directive requires pesticides to be banned or minimized in Natura 2000 sites;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has chosen not to transpose this into national law;]] [[noting that the Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands are under pressure, while pesticides are still used in these areas because this is not prohibited in many nature management plans;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to transpose Article 12 of the Sustainable Use of Pesticides Directive into national legislation by prohibiting or minimising the use of pesticides outside agriculture in Natura 2000 sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Vestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35756-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. I think it is very important that we should set an example here, especially outside agriculture, especially in view of what Mrs Bromet just said, namely that we are still doing very badly with regard to the Water Framework Directive. We're gonna be in the next crisis. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. This morning's debate on external security has also been the subject of comments. In this debate I have another motion on the very worrying substances. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effects of different substances together are not taken into account in the granting of authorisations to companies;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council,]] [[Whereas it is important to obtain as appropriate a picture as possible of the effects on public health of various so-called cocktails of crop pesticides;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the effects of these plant protection mixtures on public health, nature and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to have the authorisation of the use of mixtures examined by default before individual substances can be authorised and to send the results to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35756-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I would like to give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. When I just saw Mr Van der Plas standing here and heard her apology, I thought: you know what, I'm going to use the second term mainly to compliment her and to refer to one of the illustrious predecessors of Mr Geurts, Abraham Kuyper, who once, once here, when he had flown out of the corner figuratively, complimented himself. He apologized and complimented himself with the words: the penance cloth does not dissipate the man. I wanted to make it "the penitentiary doesn't dissipate the woman," but I just left it out, so I won't do it. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the lady-in-chief for the careful answer to the questions and the points that have been made. Thanks in her direction have also been made thanks to official support, which you will have benefited greatly from. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that the SGP is disappointed by the appreciation of the fine amendment we have tabled. It is an amendment that is perfectly in line with the Secretary of State's argument, namely: make sure that the toolbox is sufficiently filled and that there is room for administrators to use it responsibly, according to their own assessment, so that they can provide tailor-made services. That is the purpose of the amendment. I therefore regret that it is not recommended. Nor do I foresee a large-scale use of low-risk means, but if that is more convenient and better for the environment, I would say leave that option open. It would be nice if the Secretary of State said: okay, if that's the intention, then I can still make a positive assessment. At least it would be nice if she could leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. We have arrived at the last speaker, Mr Thijssen. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There won't be any motions from my side either. I don't know if it makes any sense, but I still call on the Secretary of State to fill the toolbox as well as possible. The water quality in the Netherlands is really not good for it. We've had very hard targets for five years. The Minister has already said: we are not going to make it. So I do not understand why this Secretary of State does not want to stop the toolbox as full as possible, with some of the amendments that have been proposed. In this way, there is the possibility for this Chamber and for the rulers to use that tool to achieve the goals. Because we just want clean water to swim in, clean water to make drinking water, clean water so we have a clean environment? So I'm really gonna make the call: give the judgment room and then we're gonna fill up that toolbox. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you for your contribution, Mr Thijssen. We have thus arrived at the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs ten minutes. So I'm suspending this meeting until 12:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u107	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Amendment of the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Act (base for measures on the (private) use of plant protection products) (35756). We have arrived at the second term of office. I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I should make one last point in advance. The committee has asked me a lot of questions about matters that simply do not concern my portfolio. I'm dealing with plant protection products outside of agriculture. Everything, including its content, about plant protection products within agriculture, is simply within the portfolio of Mr Staghouwer. I am, of course, willing to share with Minister Staghouwer all the knowledge and skills we have within my responsibility. But I also hope that the Chamber will understand that it is not up to me to give an opinion on this. I was present at the first term of the committee meeting. That may have led to some confusion. But this was also, for example, about pesticide control, which I am referring to. I would just like to clarify this at the beginning of this period. I have a number of motions to deal with and I would like to respond to a number of Members of the Chamber. I'd like to start by dealing with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u109	Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u110	The motion in part No. 12 belongs to Mrs. Vestering. It calls for a ban in protected areas. I'd like to discourage that motion. With the adoption of the bill, the use ban applies outside agriculture. The same applies to areas protected by the Water Framework Directive and groundwater protection areas. Use within agriculture, i.e. on farms, is the responsibility of the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u111	The motion in part No. 12 is therefore dissuaded. That raises another question for Mrs Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u112	For clarification, I would like to ask the following question. Is the Secretary of State saying that one part is actually already incorporated into the law as it is in front of us, and that the other part is being dissuaded because another minister is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u113	That's right. The legislative proposal will lead to a ban on use outside agriculture. The same applies to the areas protected under the Water Framework Directive. If Mrs Vestering appreciates this, I can ask whether it might be possible to clarify in writing exactly what these areas are. Then it'll be a little more insightful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u114	It would be very nice if we could receive this in writing. I would therefore ask you to consult the Minister for Agriculture because this is indeed about the European directives that are in force. So perhaps the Secretary of State should wait a while until the response of the Minister of Agriculture is also known.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u115	You can't do that unless you hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u116	Then I'll keep her on and then we'll put her to the vote on Tuesday, but I'd like to make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u117	Yes, you can, but that goes through normal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u118	There's no appreciation. You wait for a response and then you decide to put it to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u119	I dissuade the motion because the first piece is already settled. The second piece isn't in my wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u120	But you're betraying her. The appreciation of the cabinet's side is: motion in part No. 12 dissuaded. Mrs. Vestering says to arrest her. In any case, it will not be able to vote in this way. Until we change that, the appreciation is not recommended. Please continue with the motion in part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u121	The motion by Mr Grinwis/Van der Plas in part No. 13 concerns the withdrawal of a provincial exemption for the adhesive strips. I would ask Mr Grinwis to hold that motion. In response to the first-term questions, I said that I consider the use of these adhesive strips undesirable and insufficiently effective, but that motion is also covered by the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. The Minister for Nature and Nitrogen will send you an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u122	You're asking the MP Grinwis to hold the motion. Now Mr Grinwis is not here. Of course, that is also a disadvantage if you do two debates at the same time. Then there's a chance that sometimes you're not there at the right time. I trust that he will be able to do so at some point, and that the judgment on motion in part No. 13 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u123	I would ask him to hold her, so that there can be an appreciation from the Minister responsible: the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. I'm not going over it. If Mr Grinwis does not want to arrest her, I should advise her on that basis. But I would like to have the right minister give me an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u124	Then we await a written appreciation for the motion on item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u125	Okay. The motion by Mr Grinwis/Van der Plas in part No. 14 was about cooperation with the garden industry in a campaign against chlorine and vinegar. We had that debate here in the Chamber a while ago. There were quite a few people who said: gosh, I thought vinegar could actually be used. So there really is still some work to be done in the field of information, so I would like to leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u126	Motion in part No. 14, Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u127	The Beckerman/Vestering motion in part No. 15 requests that plant protection products should not be used outside agricultural and Natura 2000 sites. That is provided for by the bill. The non-agricultural ban applies throughout the Netherlands, including in Natura 2000 areas. So I could take over the motion, but we just had a little chat about that. Otherwise, the verdict is "Room."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u128	Clear. Motion in part No. 15, Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u129	In her motion in part No. 16 Mrs Beckerman asks me to examine the effects of the mixtures standard in the authorisation assessment. I ask her to hold that motion. The motion concerns the authorisation of plant protection products and active substances. That is the responsibility of the Minister of LNV. I ask him to send an answer to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u130	I understand that, but this is very specific about very worrying substances. I would ask the Cabinet to send an appreciation of this motion. I believe that this can be done before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u131	Shall we wait for a written appreciation of this motion or do you want to give an appreciation already? So then there will be a written appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u132	Yeah, there you have it again: there's another colleague's move. So there will be a written appreciation of that motion. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yes, that was the motion in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u134	I have one enlightening question about the motion in part No. 15. The Secretary of State indicated that she actually wanted to take over her, because what is now in the law is already this. But then the motion is simply superfluous, isn't it? Because if we take these now, what will the Secretary of State do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u135	I agree with you. The ban already applies, except in private use. Finally, I leave it to Mrs Beckerman to do what she does with the motion. Basically, we're already running it, so you could say it's unnecessary in that sense, as Mr. Geurts says. But let me put it this way: I understand the signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u136	Then it is indeed up to the author, most certainly. That's Mrs. Beckerman in this case. Then the appreciation judgment is room. That's what Mrs Beckerman is talking about. I think she has heard you very well, even in the context of not unnecessary votes. She'll make her own assessment of that. That was the motion in part No. 15, which Mr Geurts still had questions about. The motion in part No. We've had 16, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u137	I have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u138	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr Bishop asked me whether I would like to see the amendment on item No. 10 wouldn't want to judge Chamber. The answer remains no, because the starting point remains that we want to do Integrated Pest Management, in good Dutch. Only if preventive and non-chemical do not work, will we switch to chemical. I don't want to break that order. Then Mr. Thijssen had a question or more of a remark: "Do you use the toolbox well enough? We have challenges in terms of water quality." To a large extent, my colleague Mr Harbers is also in favour of this, because he deals with water quality. Achieving the objectives of the Water Framework Directive is part of the 2030 Future Vision Plant Protection Implementation Programme. That implementation programme provides for a large number of actions. The primary responsibility is therefore the Minister of LNV. IenW is involved, but it is also largely part of LNV. Of course, I understand the call made by Mr Thijssen. I know that from IenW we are in any case, including my colleague Harbers, looking very strongly at what is possible to take additional steps from water management. Minister Harbers also has a lot of contact with colleagues in, for example, Belgium, in the industrial areas there, because sometimes there is a lot of mess in the water, which then comes to the Netherlands. There is now stricter enforcement, so it does have effect. Mr. Chairman. One last response to Mr De Groot's question on the enlargement of the regions. Protecting surface water can already be based on the Water Act and the Activity Decision. As I indicated in my first term, it is going to expand as substantially as proposed too far at the moment. It falls within the competence of the Minister of LNV, since it is mainly about the use of agricultural products. That's outside my wallet. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u140	I'll look around for one last check. I conclude that that is the case. This brings us to the end of the treatment of the Amendment to the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Act. I thank the people at home, the people here in the room, the MPs and, of course, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-6.u141	I'm suspending the meeting until 1:50 p.m.
