ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on responsibility for 2021. Today is a special day anyway, because the results of the havolatiers are being announced today. Everyone succeeds with the tension, the students and also the parents and the teachers. Not just the havolates? Who else? Also the vmbo. All exams? Then I wish everyone good luck with all the exams. More than two weeks ago, on Monday 23 May, at the invitation of the Committee on Government Expenditure, a few hundred scientists were invited here to ask questions about the annual reports of the ministries. Many of these questions have now been answered. In the coming weeks, most committees will discuss their annual reports in the legislative reports and will be able to take advantage of the input of these scientists. I would therefore like to thank them from this place for their contributions. We got our chambermaid together. I am also sure that a lot of the V-100 are watching this debate right now. Today we are holding the debate in plenary. We are going to look back at the state-wide results with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitisation, whom I welcome in our midst, as well as, of course, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. We have a lot of spokesmen today. I would like to meet with Members: four questions or comments to each other and six to the directors. We will start immediately with Mr Tony van Dijck, who is eager to deliver his input. I call Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It's my 15th meatloaf today. Normally I cut this day to pieces, but this time the General Court did. For the General Court concluded that the financial management of the Empire for the third year in a row is inadequate. Almost 20 billion has been spent illegally, 20 billion in taxpayers' money. That's 2,500 per household that can't be accounted for. This minister promises to get better. But we've heard that before. What is the plan, I ask this minister. How's he gonna get better? Promises aren't gonna do us any good. The accounts are not in order, the General Court concluded. Of 1.7 billion in purchase at VWS, it could not be proven that the ordered goods were actually delivered. I would like to ask this Minister if there was any mention of Sywert van Lienden's mouth caps. The cause was: staff shortage and lack of financial expertise. If this minister's gonna solve this, that's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	Even before Mr Van Dijck began to speak, the joke was made: this is last year's text. But this is literally last year's text. Last year, I was here, too. Then I asked Mr Van Dijck: what are you going to do and what is the PVV Group going to do to ensure that next year we are not standing here again just to scream shame? Then Mr Van Dijck said: I am going to work for this and if rapporteurs are needed, the PVV will deliver it. My question to the PVV is: where were they last year? 'Cause we tried to check tighter as a room, and I missed the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	This is not last year's text. It's the 15th time I've done this day of responsibility. Every time I look very critically, as a Member of Parliament and as an auditor of this cabinet, how the cabinet has performed. I only conclude that the General Court has seen that it is not all right for the third time in a row. I'm not the one who's supposed to fix it, 'cause I'd be in "K." But they don't even invite the PVV to think along and to be able to sit in box K in the future. So I check, but don't ask me for the solutions. 'Cause that's where the finance minister is. It is responsible for the solutions. I am responsible for controlling the Minister of Finance for her actions and her outcomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	And not just the Minister of Finance! Those responsible are in box K; no questions about that. Mr Van Dijck's vote was decisive in re-establishing the Committee on National Expenditure. Then you have to do something with it, because otherwise it just doesn't make any sense. It's not like the inspector can go to sleep for a year and then, in a year's time, go back and see what's going on. No, realizing that checking is an active task. That is why we have the PVV with too many seats in this Chamber. Mr. Van Dijck, so look at yourself as well and help the Chamber to complete that controlling task, so that the people in box K also know that they are being controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	I am glad that Mr Sneller of D66 is making the call that he needs the PVV very much. I'm glad to hear that, because you don't hear that very often. But for the rest, I check all year round. Next week, we'll deal with the Spring Note. We also have the General Financial Reviews. I've been working on financials all day. I can imagine everything that Mr Sneller is only doing the rich spending and has too much time to do so. But I do finance. We do other wallets. We're working on other things. I'm doing everything in my power to control this cabinet. That's what I do, and that's what I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	We'll talk about my wallet some other time. I have a lot of debates on that. I think this is the debate on responsibility. This is about government spending. I was elected as chairman, but not because of Mr Van Dijck, because when we had to elect a chairman, only Mr Alkaya was there from the opposition. I chaired every meeting or Mr Alkaya did. Mr Van Dijck has been there zero times in the year between Accountability Day and Accountability Day. I do not know where he is completing his task, but that is not in the National Expenditure Committee, where we have to carry out that control task, whereas Mr Van Dijck himself voted to re-establish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	But Mr Van Dijck does not have to answer to Mr Sneller here. Today is Accountable Day. The cabinet must answer to the people at home about how this cabinet spent the tax money. I do not have to answer to Mr Sneller because of my commitment, because I am committed. I read the pieces. I've been doing it for the 15th time. Mr Sneller cannot blame me for neglecting my task, even though he misses me in his committee. We see it at Groningen, we see it at the premium affair. The settlement is stuck in the bureaucratic swamp of the government. This is so ugly. To compensate the Groningen people, 11 billion is available: 11 billion euros! And still more than 25,000 Groningers are waiting for compensation, some of them for more than ten years. Then there will also be 74 cents of every euro in implementation costs. It's just to be ashamed of you. Experts are filling their pockets, and the Groningers have checked. When is this Prime Minister gonna take action on that file? We see the same thing at surcharges. The expected costs have now increased tenfold: from 537 million to 5.8 billion. The money's here, but get paid out. Here again an execution organization is being rigged from here to Tokyo, with 1,000 staff. Costs: EUR 1 billion. It's not getting anywhere. 40,000 parents are still waiting for satisfaction. That would mean that parents weren't due until 2026. Mr. Chairman. This is unacceptable. So my question is: when will the Prime Minister take the lead? Because he sees this happening under his responsibility and he doesn't do anything about it. How much will the implementation costs in the case of the supplementing affair cost? Does 74 cents of every euro go to overhead, officials, hire staff and so on? How can the case be speeded up? Surely the Minister agrees with me that it is unacceptable for these parents to have to wait until 2026? Implementation is, therefore, still a problem. We now see this in the €800 energy surcharge for the minima. Half of them haven't received anything two months after that. We also see a large degree of arbitrariness in the execution. Rotterdam gives people with an income up to 140% of the social minimum the supplement. The Hague gives them €900: €100 extra. Should be possible. So it's a mess. Prime Minister Rutte thinks he can solve the problems with a big bag of money without paying attention to the execution. But that's not how it works. The Court of Auditors also warns about this. Tens of billions are being prepared in all kinds of funds, but there is no or insufficient attention to implementation. Mr. Chairman. What is the situation with regard to the handling of the corona aid packages? This too is very complex. The NOW and the TVL have six laps on it. We can already see that there are delays in handling. The RVO lags almost 5,000 objections. This is gonna get all jammed up. Onl therefore pleads for a time-out, an SME recovery plan and a committee of experts to streamline resolution. How is the Minister going to avoid another supplemental affair? Mr. Chairman. Then the corona support. Last year it amounted to more than EUR 30 billion. The question is whether this stays or whether we are going to see a lot of bankruptcies after all. Indeed, the number of bankruptcies is expected to double by the end of this year. I see three pitfalls. Indeed, many companies have to repay their corona aid because they have received too much. The answer shows that 135.000 companies have to repay the NOW. It's $3.5 billion. So first you give them generous NOW, and now with a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of hassle, they're gonna have to pay it all back. And then NOW 5 and 6 still have to be established. The TVL also has to repay 0.5 billion. Mr. Chairman. That can and must be changed. 264 000 companies also have to repay deferred taxes. It's more than 21 billion. Now it appears that 30% should be written off. Does this mean that 30% of those 21 billion are companies that quit, go bankrupt or stop paying? Another setback for this finance minister of nearly 6 billion. At the moment, according to figures from the Chamber of Commerce, 220,000 companies are on the verge of bankruptcy because they can no longer pay their bills. My question is therefore: how will the Minister prevent companies from falling over massively as a result of over-indebtedness on the part of the government? What's the plan? Mr. Chairman. It is also striking that business is making a significant profit again in 2021. Mr. Chairman. It is also striking that business again made a significant profit in 2021. Against a loss of 255 billion by 2020, there is a profit of 300 billion in 2021. Even more strikingly, this profit has gone entirely to the capital factor, not to wages and taxes. Real wages decreased even in 2021. So all the profits went to the boss, the equity and the shareholders. But the most striking thing is that it's mainly the big companies that profited. They made more than 50% profit thanks to government wage support. Smaller companies without staff saw their profits evaporate. The question is: can the Minister reflect on this? In the hospitality sector, 82% of wage support went to 10% of businesses with more than ten employees. In other words, we've saved big companies that have seen their profits double, but the small companies are still going bankrupt. That's those 220,000 businesses. Finally, Mr President. Together with all the Dutch, I am deeply concerned about the near future. Consumer confidence is at a historical low of -48. The war in Ukraine, rising energy prices and hyperinflation above 10%: it's not really helping. Citizens can barely make ends meet. One in three families is now struggling to make ends meet and can no longer pay the energy bill, according to figures from the Nibud today. These are 2.5 million families, 2.5 million families who cannot pay their bills and have to sell interns on their savings or no and agree on a payment arrangement. People are delaying their large expenditures more and more often. The willingness to buy is also at a historical low of -33. Producer confidence has also started to decrease. Mr. Chairman. These are all signs of dark economic times. A recession with probably stagflation is ahead of us. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: what will the Prime Minister do to prevent a recession? I have not yet seen the beginning of an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. There is a question from Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yeah, I have a question. I listened carefully to Mr Van Dijck's speech. He rightly stresses that wages have been far too long behind and that we see a great deal of profit being made by very large companies and only the shareholders profit from it. But we also see in the Monitor Brede Prosperity that the power inequality in the Netherlands has become an even bigger problem. It's been for years. I am curious about the consistency of the PVV, as I see in the voting behaviour in the Chamber that the PVV is always opposed to tackling that wealth gap, that wealth inequality. And I can't relate those two very well. Why doesn't the PVV choose to tackle this property inequality with other parties in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	Capital inequality is a problem. We're not running away from that. But so far we have always looked at the waste of taxpayers' money and seen so much money wasted on all kinds of left-wing hobbies, as we call them, from the environment to nitrogen, Europe, immigration and so on. We saw that there is so much money to get there and in principle tax increases are always lower on our priority list, because we say: the Netherlands pays a lot of tax. Indeed, I agree with you that there is a lack of capacity in the Netherlands, as it turns out now. And I was just talking about the big companies that made huge profits. They've almost benefited from that coronal. So we are certainly open to looking at that and doing something about it, but we are also looking at the 108 billion going to nitrogen and climate. As long as these large amounts are available for what we actually think is absurd expenditure, we do not come up with all kinds of proposals on tax increases so quickly. But we're looking at that constructively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. Then we will listen to Mr. Heinen of the VVD. It might be good to point out that the debate on the Spring Note is on 15 June. So today it's looking back and next week we're gonna look forward, so that's a little bit of demarcation. I give the floor to Mr Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr President, you probably said that because you expect interruptions from me. We're gonna see. Mr. Chairman. Last year, I held my maiden speech in this debate on accountability. I started my contribution with a reminder of a map that hung over the blackboard in my childhood: a vast and reddish country, the Soviet Union. It was an optimistic story, in which I described that free democracies will always eventually overcome and lead to the best outcomes: more prosperity, more happiness for very normal people. It was also a story with concern about a new red danger, about a possible renewed struggle for democracy and for freedom. Who could have thought last year that a criminal in the Kremlin looked at that same map at that time and from misplaced nostalgia, delusions of grandeur or pure hatred would invade a neighbouring country in an attempt to restore that red empire? It is of unprecedented brutality and perhaps also significant for a decade characterized by crises and uncertainty. For example, a global financial crisis already led to a debt crisis in Europe with derailed public finances. Barely obtained from this major economic setback, a global pandemic once again led to an economic blow with once again a huge impact on public finances across Europe. And with that Russian war in Ukraine, we will have another economic thump. People are gonna feel this in their wallet right away. This war also presents us with new geopolitical issues which also call for large investments. Just think about the defense and our energy supply. In this period of uncertainty and crisis and the need for large investments, it is attractive to abandon budgetary discipline, to make more flexible interpretations of agreements we have made with each other. We see it in Europe and we also see it in the Netherlands. I'm really worried about this. We must return to a sound budgetary process with clear budgetary anchors and compliance with agreements we have made with each other. This is at the heart of my speech. I'll start with Europe. The European fiscal rules of the European Stability and Growth Pact have been suspended again in the past year. This suspension is now even being extended for another year. When the reform of the Pact was discussed in the past year, the focus was on easing, while debt continued to rise. At the same time, the European Central Bank has gone too far in buying up many of these debts. This allowed countries to postpone necessary reforms once again and to increase debt further. Over the past year, the ECB's balance sheet has grown to nearly 9,000 billion in purchased debts. That is more than 80% of the euro area economy. This can't go on. At least, you'd think so. To my surprise, I read in the Financial Times a plan for a new buy-back programme of the ECB to prevent interest rate differentials within the euro area from increasing too much. And that in a time of rising inflation. This cannot be done and we must return to sound financial policies in the Netherlands and in Europe. The House will soon be debating the future of the euro area. It is good that colleagues have requested a debate on this issue. I would ask the Minister of Finance to send a letter before this debate containing a cabinet position on the ECB's buy-back programme. How can we restore financial discipline in Europe? What is the government's commitment in Europe to this? This requires a versatile approach. As the ECB continues to increase its mandate, the importance of sound fiscal policies in Europe is also weakening, and problems continue to accumulate. I would like a commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. I come to the heart of this debate: a sound budgetary policy in the Netherlands. I started my contribution with a reference to my maiden speech last year. At that time it was also about the importance of good accountability. There is a need for a strong government. That also calls for proper control of that government. But then that control must be possible. In this context, we have discussed in detail Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act. I can imagine that not everyone who is looking now knows that article, but the bottom line is that a cabinet can only spend money with the permission of the House of Representatives, with one exception. On the basis of Article 2.27, the cabinet can also spend money without the consent of the parliament if it considers it to be in the interests of the Empire. It's a very open article. Last year the General Court pointed out that it was too often used. The room found this, too. I then tabled a motion to tighten up this article. That motion has been accepted by the House of Commons. But I am very disappointed at the outcome of the motion. The only thing the previous cabinet has done is to create an A4 with a decision-making tree for officials, so that it is clear to officials when they can make use of Article 2.27. In fact, there is only one question: is there sufficient time for parliamentary authorisation? If no, use Article 2.27. It's in the A4's. Mr. Chairman. This can't be happening. I should try this at home. I want a new car tomorrow. You know what, I'm gonna buy it right away and at home I'm gonna say, "Sorry, honey, there wasn't time for familial authorization." I'm afraid I'll be sleeping in that car from now on. Article 2.27 was invoked 40 times in 2020 and reached 59 times in 2021. This would mean that the importance of the Empire was at stake five times a month. And the counter goes on. The exception article has been used 24 times this year. When you look at the motivation in the incidental supplementary budgets of this exceptional article I've been studying them all over the past few weeks, you're actually reading something interesting. Then you see that over time a different argument is increasingly being used, namely that there is an urgent nature of the payments. The policy must be implemented quickly. But that's not what Article 2.27 is about at all. It is not about speed of policy but about whether the importance of the Empire is at stake, which means that speed is necessary. In a crisis situation, of course, it may be true, but Article 2.27 is also increasingly being used outside crisis situations. If we look at 2022 alone, this year, we see expenditure related to ventilation measures in school buildings, a rolling lease at Foreign Affairs or a European hydrogen project. That will all be very good spending, but they are no reason to put Parliament out of play. In addition, Article 2.27 states that the States General should have been informed, which led to the Prime Minister's remark last year that the cabinet might have had to put a stamp on a note more often. Technically, he was right, but that was obviously not in the spirit of the law. And right here, it's pinching. When it comes to sound fiscal policies, the Compatibility Act now leaves too much room for interpretation to the cabinet. It needs framing. Or, more flatterly, we want our ATM card back. I therefore propose that Article 2.27 be supplemented by the condition that the States-General should not only be informed, but that the States-General should also be informed. This puts the Chamber in a position to judge whether the importance of the Empire is actually at stake and it also forces the Chamber to take up a position. Because in all honesty and that is what I am responsible for, we have not asked for any additional supplementary budgets on this point, of course. I will table a motion for a resolution on this point in my second term. In addition, I will take the initiative with Mr Sneller, as chairman of the Committee on National Expenditure, to draw up a protocol on how we wish to be informed, also taking into account a crisis situation in which we must act quickly, because that is, of course, ultimately for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	This is a good point from the VVD. I will also stress this point in my own term: we need to get out of the crisis and not pretend to be urgent in order to submit an interim budget. This is at the expense of Parliament's control over the question of whether the money of society is being spent properly. Just: I don't think you can always shut it down completely in the law, can you? I will look at this with all goodwill, but it is also a matter of decency and mutual trust that the cabinet does not always pretend to be an emergency? Does Mr Heinen therefore agree with me that the Minister of Finance can also promise that this year we should simply go a different direction, that we should have less of this kind of incidental supplementary budgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	I totally agree with that. I would also really like to hear the ambition that, like last year, it is not being used again 59 times. I would like to make one comment. We cannot, of course, see what crisis situations are going on. It's theoretically possible that we're gonna get so messed up that the cabinet has to act. There is that exception, but I see from Mr Alkaya that that is not the point he is trying to make here. I agree with Mr Alkaya that it is partly about behavior, how we deal with each other. At the same time, I think that we should also better frame it in the law, so that it does not slip into it slowly and becomes a habit. I do see the tendency that it seems to be becoming a habit now. The examples I mention here are similar. I think we need to break that. I believe that it is the responsibility of the cabinet, but also of the Chambers, to rule here whether we consider ourselves to be informed. This enables us to enter into this discussion about whether the importance of the Empire is really at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think it is a very good plea from Mr Heinen. My compliments. I fully agree: we need to strengthen the House's budget right, because it may also lead to Mr Heinen's example: to buy an extra large car, because then you will at least sleep well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	Haha. If it happens in agreement, it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	Exactly. But on this point, I say the following. If we just table a motion to put it in the Chamber, we'll be here before you know it, too, some kind of stamp machine and nothing really changes. Shouldn't it be, for example, in the A4's with that decision tree, much more fundamentally anchored in the process of the Empire? Mr Heinen knows the IRF very well, from his own experience. It should just be standard in the toolbox, that we ask: boys, is such a supplementary budget really necessary, or should it simply be resolved otherwise? Inflation is the talk of the town, but in this article of law, Article 2 (27), inflation is, if possible, even higher than in real reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	That's a lot of questions. I'm just trying to dissect it. On the issue of continuity law, I say that the reason why I call on the cabinet to amend the law in the motion is that it is not now formally before us. So I can't amend him now. If that takes too long, I will gladly submit it with you. I know you like to draft amendments, so we can make an amendment to that law together. That's one side of the story. In addition, I think it is a responsibility of the Chamber to draw up a protocol. I do not think that is the case with the cabinet: how we wish to be informed. There are, of course, quite variations possible. It is about the States General, but if a bank has to be rescued on a weekend, you cannot of course hold a plenary session. But we have had experience in the past with state aid for airlines or a bank. There are also overnight information protocols to be drawn up with each other. In addition, there is the issue of how the Empire itself is dealt with. I understand the attempt of the decision tree, but I think that, if it's a total solution, it's way too thin. I wonder if it can be further anchored in the conditions of the Empire, but I think we can already make a good step through the continuity law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	I, too, appreciate the proposal in itself. With 63 supplementary budgets and 59 recourse to the derogation provisions in the past year, again this year, we are seeing a repetition of the pattern of the situation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Apart from tightening the derogation, I was wondering whether it would not be wise to look more structuralally at the whole year and the budgetary process. Could we not look more broadly at the budgets and any adjustments at four times a year? We have Princess Day, we are going to strengthen the spring moment and we already have the moment at the end of autumn with the Navy Note. But isn't it important to create such a moment somewhere after winter, at the beginning of spring? Then, hopefully, you will get more of a bundling of your own, and a duty to map in full what the various adjustments result in together. Then you may also reduce the number of supplementary budgets, as well as the recourse to the derogations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	I think this is an interesting thought. I heard Mr Van der Lee make this point in our discussion with the Council of State. There are actually two thoughts here. You can combine all the supplementary budgets, because then you can weigh well integrally. That's what you do with Spring Note and Autumn Note. But I also see the need for us to be able to steer more on these budgets. Then if you do that shredded over the whole year, you can't make that integral weighting. That would argue for a time like this perhaps more often. I'd like to add that Prince's Day really is one of those moments. That's actually between the Spring note and the Autumn note. That would be a moment when you might really look at those amendments. I can imagine that you will take this into account in your contribution. I'll listen to that with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	Congratulations on Mr Heinen's speech. I had to think. A few minutes ago, he said we need a strong government. I associate that with a lot of officials, a lot of costs, a lot of bureaucracy. Now, of course, I know that the VVD, through the current Prime Minister in 2004, wanted to merge with D66, then with Lousewies van der Laan. So maybe that's a little sticky. A strong government, and therefore a large government, I associate more with D66 than with old-fashioned liberals, who still want a small government, although efficient, but with not too many rules. A strong government sounds a bit strange to me for a basically liberal and once right-wing party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	Before that: a juvenile sin is, of course, always forgiven by the Prime Minister; that is what I am counting on these merger plans. As far as a small government is concerned, I must honestly say that I used these terms in the past. As a liberal, you fight for that too, you fight for a small government because it symbolizes that you should never let a government expand within itself, like a large bureaucracy that actually stands in the way of citizens. So I still agree with that principle. But because we're stuck in that terminology so much, we sometimes forget what it's all about, which is solving problems for very normal people. May I give you one example? With this coalition agreement, we are expanding the government for childcare. It's gonna be cheaper for perfectly normal people, for middle income. That's a bigger government. But I don't think people at the kitchen table say to each other, "Oh, my God, that government is getting bigger." I think people think: fantastic that this cabinet is using this, because this gives me air in the housekeeping book. So I would not really like to have another discussion about the size of the State, but much more about the size of the household booklet of very normal people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr Heinen sketches a strong government. We think that's a good idea. That doesn't necessarily have to be a big government. But he also sketches it not through the rules but actually through the exception rules spending a lot of money. I'm glad there's recognition that this is true. I think it is very good that the VVD itself indicates this. But I was wondering, what's his analysis of why this is happening? I hear him suggesting solutions, which is very nice, but I still miss the story, his analysis, his view of the matter, why this cabinet and perhaps the previous cabinet thought and think they can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you for this question. I think the intentions were good. You're dealing with a crisis and you need to act quickly. First of all, it was in the corona aid packages, but it was also in other schemes, for example compensation schemes for supplement parents or for Groningen et cetera. Then a cabinet wants to act quickly. That is what this Parliament wants, in all honesty, of course. We are also always at the interrupting microphone to say: it must be faster, it must be faster, it must be faster. So I understand the way you look at it as a cabinet: if it goes through a whole parliamentary process, there will be delays, while we have to spend quickly. So the intentions are good, I guess. But my argument is that we are actually in a decade of crises. The crisis situation is no longer occasional. We seem to be dealing with an uncertain period, in which we run from crisis to crisis. That is an incredibly difficult time, which also asks for incredibly difficult choices. Then, of course, there is the risk of being said: it is a crisis again, so we are going to make use of it again. When are we going to move from occasional to structural? I think we have reached this point by 2022. In fact, it is now relatively calm in the Netherlands, if I could put it that way, although of course I do very little with all the problems that are now being discussed at kitchen tables. But it is too soon for me to say now: for ventilation systems in schools, we also use the exception article. I'm really out of line with that. That is why I think we should also tell the cabinet a mirror: cabinet, now you are going too far; we really need to frame the law. That would be my analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	I think that analysis is correct. If I listen carefully to Mr Heinen, he actually says that the number of occasional budgets has increased because the number of crises has increased. Is that his analysis? Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	Yeah, that's right. But it also has to do with the fact that we are in a time of many crises. At the same time, that is my argument, perhaps we should also acknowledge that we are simply walking in uncertain times. I also notice it in this Parliament. We stick behind each noun the word "crisis" to radiate urgency. It's not a pointing finger; I'll do it myself. Sometimes it's just policy making and troubleshooting. Not everything is a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I come to the limits of tolerance, particularly with regard to obligations. According to the General Court, EUR 15.5 billion was unlawful. That does not mean that the money is gone or is eclipsed. I also hear those sounds, but that those commitments have not been properly made. In a response from the Minister of Finance to the General Court's analysis, the Minister did not really go into that. I'd like to ask her to do that after all. How does the Minister explain this enormous increase in the unlawful commitments? What improvement process has been deployed in the state service and what is the state of play? Is the Court of Auditors always right? It is an independent College of State. We must be very careful here to be critical of the Court of Auditors itself, but I have an example. There was also an imperfection in the purchasing management of the Defense Department. Defense had decided to maintain a vehicle........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That also makes sense, because that's the only party that can do it. Military knowledge is often classified, so you can only leave it with one producer. However, according to the General Court, this was not correct, because this interview should have been publicly tendered. As a result, it was classified as imperfection. Then you can have a discussion with each other or that is a valid observation. That is therefore in the cooperation between the ADR and the General Court. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: is this always going well or are there any improvements so that we do apply the same, in this case European procurement law, in the assessment of whether expenditure obligations take place lawfully? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	The VVD has for a long time had a high regard for financial soundness. Now, when we look at the findings of the General Court of Auditors, the accountants, and in particular the factor of five that exceeded the tolerance limit, does Mr Heinen of the VVD consider that the cabinet has acted financially well in 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	I think that's a very good question. Maybe we should zoom out first. In a European context, the Netherlands is incredibly good for each other. With the expenditure tolerance limits, we are close to 1%. I think it was 1.08%. That's just so good. The commitments really didn't go well. Those are "you said it already "a factor of five exceeded," out of my head 4.8%. That's just too much and it's got to be better. The question is, what is it because of? I think it's too soon if you put a stamp on it right away: it didn't work properly. If you look at the budget regulations sec, then you are right. But if you also look at the situation in which it took place, a crisis situation, it is understandable. In the case of unlawfulness, it is a question of informing Parliament in good time. An issue in itself may be legitimate, but it is not lawful in the sense that the Chamber has been informed in good time. In that sense, I do not think it has gone well in the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	If we make a link between Mr Heinen's initial story and where we are now, namely that we have a parliamentary democracy and that this is hard work, then that also presupposes that Parliament is informed in good time about expenditure. There was no crisis at all in some of these commitments. The Court of Auditors also says that this is being made too easy; we do not agree with that. Even if there is a crisis, our parliamentary democracy is still valid. There is no state of emergency here. We just had our job to do. The conclusion is that in ten ministries there are ten chapters, says the Court of Auditors, which is an overrun, illegal, more than ever. We're actually seeing an upward trend from 2019. Also in 2019, for any crisis, there were injustices and there was strong talk. I should also like to ask Mr Heijnen not to run away. He did that a little bit after his introduction, let me just say, the excuses that are cited. That is what our mathematicians and also the General Court of Auditors are failing to do. The ball's with us. I would ask Mr Heinen once again: if we look at the rules of the game that we sometimes impose on citizens... If those five times faster on the highway, we can't say: yes, there was a crisis; I had to sister, I had to. Again, I just want to know from Mr Heinen: how does he judge the financial soundness of this cabinet's spending in 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	Then my earlier answer was too flowery, because it was just not good. That's obvious. This is noted by the General Court. I can see that. That is why I come up with a proposal to prevent this from happening again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	I would like to go on with this, because the President of the General Court stood here and expressed great discomfort, because it has been coming back year after year and indeed seems to be a structural problem and not just because of the crisis. What we see in it is that Mr Azarkan said that nicely is that we expect the citizens to comply with the rules and that we actually expect that from our cabinet. In Europe, the Netherlands is voting against discharge when the tolerance limits are exceeded. I was curious how the VVD looks at this in relation to the structural overruns here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	That is, of course, the question that always comes to mind: do you give discharge? That's a debate you're having after dealing with all the supplementary budgets. They're in parliament now. These supplementary budgets are dealt with in all the Committees of the European Parliament, in a variety of different forms; that is really up to the Committees of the European Parliament. Sometimes I think of it as a hammer piece. I think that's a shame. I would like to call on all my fellow Members to raise it, to ask questions about it and to debate it. It's only after you decide if there's a charge. It is really too early for me to anticipate that discussion already. Then I am wronging all those colleagues who still have to deal with all these budgetary laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	I totally understand that. I get that. I was curious to see how the VVD is in that position at the moment and what it expects of answers and reflection from the cabinet, because the General Court actually says: all we can do is approve it, so that Parliament will deal with it. But what they are actually saying is: the problems are great and we feel uncomfortable about having to give this approval, because we feel that too little is being done about it. I wonder how the VVD sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	You're actually asking me to give you the Cabinet's answer. Then they get away with it too easily, so I think they should answer that themselves. At least what I expect from them is that they acknowledge that it is a wrong trend up and that it really needs to be reversed. I also expect recognition of the fact that there is some inconvenience in Parliament. But I also expect us to do so in my own contribution, and to acknowledge the situation in the times in which we live, in which, of course, we are faced with crises. If we had not sat with corona, those terrible scandals of surcharges and Groningen, then I think there would have been far less frequent use of Article 2.27, there would have been fewer supplementary budgets and probably fewer exceedances of those tolerance limits. That's the context in which this takes place, which I tried to sketch. But even if you use that context, I find that too many boundaries have been crossed. Last year, I tabled a motion to limit that. I do not think there has been sufficient follow-up. That is why I believe that we should now draw the initiative towards us and limit it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	I welcome the fact that Mr Heinen himself is taking the initiative to improve that. I think that's very strong. But he also refers to last year's debate. I went back to see which motions were then tabled and adopted and what was ultimately done with them. Mr Sneller said in his first interruption: it seems like last year's text. But much of what was said in the debate last year could also be projected into this debate. Motions were also adopted to see how it could be improved, but, as Mr Heinen says now, too little has been done about it. I am curious when what the cabinet is going to do is enough for Mr Heinen, because when I look at what has happened since last year, my conclusion is that too little has been done with the wish of the Chamber to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	Sure. I think that's a common inconvenience. In fact, I will make a proposal in a motion which I hope will receive broad support for. I also hope that it is well thought out, but that will not change things for this year, because that law will only apply in 2023. When we look at 2022, I am concerned, because we are not even halfway through the year and we have already used 2.27 24 times already. That's a really wrong trend. I would also like to hear that from the cabinet. I want to know whether it really sees and hears the urgency of this debate, and whether we are talking to each other about the Minister of Finance, in which they say: it is nice that there is a decision tree, but I am putting a box in front of it; it is no at all and if you really think that, then you come to me first to walk through the decision tree together. It shouldn't be the case that in a department in a ministry a decision-making tree is being run through. I really hope we get that commitment. Then the question is where we'll be next year. I don't know, but I do expect that trend to really go down. That's what I expect from this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	To get it right, Mr Heinen pointed out that it sometimes requires exceptional measures because we are in a crisis, in a surcharge crisis. I do expect Mr Heinen to stay sharp on the latter. In 2020, the cabinet decided to let the Secretary of State say on the first day of the recess, around 23 December, that all parents will receive €30,000 compensation. The Court of Auditors said that it was unlawful and that the Chamber had not been informed. There was no necessity to do that. It could have been done properly by the normal route. The quality of us Members of Parliament is right to say: we do not agree with that. That could have been fine. We could have tested that; I hear Mrs Van Dijk now saying: it is. That would have been better, too. Then perhaps it would have come out that I had said: I understand the good intentions of the cabinet, but it is simply not legitimate and it is not necessary. So I also say to Mr Heinen: let us not bring in the surcharges to condone that we are not complying with the rules of the game. Just don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	If that were the case, I would like to stress that that was certainly not the intention. In the Financial Report of the Empire, you see in Annex 13, somewhere in the back of page two hundred so much, an overview of when a call has been made to 2.27. There are three categories: corona, the surcharges and Groningen. But if you then zoom in and look at what is going on with corona, then I also come to the conclusion that 2.27 should not have had to; I very much agree with Mr Azarkan. You could have said, "We're having a debate." In fact, I think it is also possible to think from time to time from the cabinet: a parliament may sometimes be annoying sta-in-the-way. But I believe that in a parliamentary democracy you can make policy better. I can also mention another example: the NPO funds. EUR 8.5 billion has been paid for this, but you can see that there are unclear objectives. We don't know if it's been deployed cost-effectively. I think a debate in the Chamber would have really tightened that up. That brings me to the very heart of my speech. Where things go wrong here is that a cabinet can actually do these expenses with a stamp and a note, as the Prime Minister said last year. I don't think that's a good thing. So I think it is important for Parliament to be placed in a position to say: we consider ourselves sufficiently informed or not sufficiently informed. Then we also have an emergency brake to say that we want more information or want to talk further, whether it's about the Catshuisgeld, the NPO funds or ventilation systems in schools. I think we should build that together. I hope that Mr Azarkan will be sufficiently well-defined in this way. Mr President, I shall go to the conclusion. At the beginning of my contribution I referred to my maiden speech. In that I was hopeful that free democracies will eventually overcome, simply because freedom takes the best out of people. Although that freedom is now heavily fought, I am still hopeful. It is important that we hold on to each other and that we stick to the agreements we have made with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	I actually expected more from the VVD. Good accounting is also very important to GroenLinks, but that is not an end in itself. You have good accounting to promote broad prosperity. We have also received a monitor on the broad prosperity. There are also a number of structural problems, issues and obstacles to widespread prosperity for all. I don't hear the VVD about that at all. But I can name a few. In nature, biodiversity and climate, the indicators are very red. There is a real problem of poverty: 221,000 children grow up in poverty. There's power inequality, which I talked about earlier. But think also of the fact that people with a non-Western migration background and lower education are being pushed even more into the fringes of our society. Why don't I hear the VVD about what it takes to promote that broad prosperity? And what lessons does the VVD draw from that monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	Forgive me for not mentioning every subject in my contribution, but that does not mean that I have no opinion on it. You haven't heard me talk about kettles; even I have an opinion on them. On the Monitor Brede Welvaart I would first like to emphasise something positive, something we have also heard from the Central Bureau of Statistics, namely that things are doing a lot better here and now. Let us also note with each other that not everything is negative. It's a positive outcome. But Mr Van der Lee rightly points to parts that need to be improved. The added value of the Broad Prosperity Monitor is also, I think, that it looks more broadly at prosperity than only in terms of GDP and income. Then we see some very big challenges. But Mr Van der Lee should also take up the coalition agreement. He should therefore recognise that a great many of these issues are actually being addressed to make it better. I also hope that, in the future, we will see in the Broad Prosperity Monitor that all those indicators that are now coloured red go to green.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	Last question for Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	I find that a disappointing answer. Of the coalition agreement, I find all sorts of things; that is what we have talked about. But that was closed before we got these new pieces. This debate on accountability is also intended to learn from it and to see if it is effective in accounting. What new lessons can we learn after that, even when it comes to those challenges in the field of broad prosperity? I can't hear you drawing any new lessons from that. It would be a good thing for you to continue to think and learn, and as the largest party in this country, to indicate what extra needs to be done to make that broad prosperity accessible to all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	I think this is a nice debate, because I think the Monitor Brede Prosperity enriches the debate. I also think it is a good thing that we include them in the policy, but I do not agree that the starting point and determining the policy should be. They are also indicators that are difficult to steer. For example, we are talking about social well-being. There are indicators like that in there too. The Central Bureau of Statistics also indicated: looking at the facts, we see a lot of indicators that things are getting better, but when we ask people, it doesn't feel like they're getting better. That is an important observation, with which we have to work as politicians, because the facts and the reality do not coincide. That belongs in the political debate. But if you take each indicator as a starting point for policy, it will be difficult, because how do you convert people's well-being into a budget? Well, that's gonna be hard, 'cause then you're gonna send for luck. Then you'll meet a more classic liberal who says: you can't send for that as a government. It's not up to the government to send it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	I'll resist the temptation to ask for the kettle. I have heard Mr Heinen speak honourable words about legality. I fully support that, too. It is also our task to look at efficiency. Has the money been spent effectively and have the goals set by the cabinet been achieved? Frankly, I have a lot of concerns about this, including the current coalition agreement which we will be discussing next week. Does Mr Heinen share those concerns and is he also prepared to see a little more about them? He's got a financial background just like me. There was always a bit of the idea: you have a problem, an analysis, a plan and then money comes in. Now the policy seems to be a bit: we have a whole pot of money and then we see what we are going to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	No, I agree. I am also going to listen to your contribution with a great deal of attention and interest, because this is an important element. I didn't focus on it here. I did, of course, do so in the previous debate. Of course, the budget funds that have been set up are also one of the main concerns when it comes to the effectiveness of policies. But that is precisely why I have previously tabled a motion for a resolution, which has also been adopted in a Chamber to reduce these funds. It was about establishing objective criteria to which you test that expenditure, but also, for example, involving cost-benefit analyses in the spending of those funds, as we do with the MIRT or the Mobility Fund, for example. We are, of course, also looking at this. There is a pot of money, but in order for it to be effective, we have, of course, all built in safeguards. I take this issue of these funds out because I think this is an important element in the debate on efficiency. We have, of course, already tabled a motion to improve this in the past, but if Mr Nijboer is still concerned about this and sees any further improvements, I would very much like to go along with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Heinen embraces broad prosperity. Okay. I say measuring is knowing. He also indicates that it is difficult to steer there. Here's what I want to ask him. A nice part of the wide-ranging wealth debate is, of course, the power inequality. If you look at the income inequality and the gini coefficient, that's not so bad. If you take the pension assets with you, it's actually not that bad. There are a number of left-wing motions and legislative proposals from our left-wing colleagues to take away the people who have something too. Does the VVD really see power inequality as a major problem, just like left-wing parties sleeping with Piketty on their bedside table?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr Ephraim rightly refers to the inclusion of pension assets in the debate. I very much agree with that. I believe that your foreman, Mr Van Haga, has also tabled another motion to include pension assets in the study on property inequality which is due to come to the Chamber before the summer. I found that an enrichment of the discussion, so thank you for that. On the question "do you think there's a problem there?" The easy answer would be to wait for the report. If you ask me, I think we should have this debate with an open mind, and not say it in advance: it comes from the left, so it will not be right. That is what I hear Mr Ephraim doing, if I may hold a mirror. I think we should challenge ourselves in this Parliament to listen to each other and see if there are any problems. I can come to a different conclusion. In the discussions on capabilities you often hear in my contribution that I think that it is really too easy to talk about it. However, I do not think that we should draw any conclusions in advance and put that right as something from the left. I'm not saying I agree with the left. I would therefore ask you to take a more open attitude in this debate. I think we can still take very nice steps with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	I do not hear Mr Heinen talking about implementation. I spoke in a large part of my speech about the implementation of the childcare allowance, at Groningen and now at the energy compensation. Half of them didn't have one either. I was also talking about recovering NOW funds. Does Mr Heinen think that this implementation is going well? Or should we, as a Chamber, be more on top of that and encourage the cabinet to give concrete substance to that rather than throwing a few billion over the fence to the municipalities and hoping that it will be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	I do not think that anyone here in Parliament or at home has the feeling that everything is going smoothly in the implementation. In that sense, I agree with the underlying question: are things going well? I think there's really something to improve. Here is a very difficult discussion about care versus speed. The Court of Auditors pointed that out last year. That is also a struggle that we have here in Parliament. We want a cabinet to act quickly, especially in relation to the issues you are referring to, but the sooner we act and the sooner money is made about it, the worse the execution is. Often the money does not come to the people for whom it is intended. That's a tough discussion. I think that when the cabinet says 'we're going to study for another six months', for example, when it comes to compensating for the energy bill, we also have a problem with that in this Parliament. So it's looking for a good balance in that. I go back to the essence of my speech and Article 2.27. I think that as a parliament we have a solid position in the debate on speed. We can often have a debate here on subjects such as the implementation of the Catshuisgeling, as Mr Azarkan pointed out, and more acute questions about the implementation of the Catshuisgeling. In the case of the energy surcharge, Mr Omtzigt was not yet present in the Chamber, one of the first to say: "Are you all right with its implementation? In fact, we do not have enough debate about this." I think he was right to make a point about that. With the proposals I make, I hope that we, as a parliament, will strengthen our position by starting that debate and getting more focused on implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	My problem is: isn't the government, or the cabinet, partly responsible for it? For example, we give €30,000 very carelessly to those child care parents. And then we're gonna take a very minute to see if that was right. As a result, these parents remain in uncertainty until 2026. Aren't we co-responsible? Because we are giving away money very easily: at the NOW, the TVL, the childcare allowance, perhaps also at Groningen and with the energy compensation. Then we're gonna rig up a billion-dollar resolution organization, with 1,000 fte, to see if that was right. Then we're gonna bother these people very much with all kinds of documents, red tape, you name it. I therefore believe that we share a responsibility, because we need to apply a little more coulance because of the rudeness with which we have distributed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	I very much appreciate the fact that I am also talking about co-responsibility. Actually, it wasn't a question. I think we all have those responsible here. At least I can feel it, even if things don't go well. Then I blame myself for not asking through. I think the intentions are always good. Because we want to act quickly. We see people in trouble. It's all about their hearts. So you want to act quickly. But a good intention doesn't mean you always have good outcomes. I think we all have a responsibility for that. Once again, I hope that next year, as a parliament, we will also be more firmly positioned to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	Let's talk about efficiency. I have tabled motions together with Mr Heinen to keep an eye on the effectiveness of the funds, for example. But there is also a risk, namely that efficiency is translated very quickly as purely financial, while at a time of transition you also have to take into account uncertainties and dare to take a risk. If, for example, the ideal, optimal peak loader is not on the market when dealing with nitrogen, but the second best is on the market, then you have to have the courage to act at that time. You certainly have to do that with an inflation rate of 10%, but that aside. I am concerned with the matter of principle. Another example is a class after corona that has been home a lot, which may have gotten a little lethargy and the teacher thinks: "You know what? We are going to have a pizza with each other and have a good conversation. Then we're gonna pull the leg and get that class back to the right level." That may be very effective, but it is not seen through the financial glasses. How does Mr Heinen see this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	This is at the heart of politics. Our handle is efficiency. That's where we're trying to steer. But we're not gonna let civil servants run us. We let ourselves be governed by a politics, a parliament. It checks whether this efficiency is always desirable. It may be that this leads to suboptimal outcomes in terms of efficiency, but they can count on more support. Once again, this is a purely political point of discussion which we must consider here. I fully agree with Mr Grinwis: there are times when you can come up with different results. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Heinen. I invite Mr Alkaya for his contribution. Let's talk about the charge. The committees deal with the annual reports and final laws until the summer. On the last day of the meeting, the Chamber takes a decision on the discharge of the annual reports on the basis of the discharge opinion of the Committee on Government Expenditure. At the same time, the final laws are adopted. That's just for the people who were wondering what that process looked like. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr. Chairman. Today we look back on hopefully the last year in which the corona virus controlled our lives: 2021. With many people things went remarkably well last year, in the economic sense. I'm a little distracted, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr Van der Lee, your colleague, Mr Alkaya, has the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	Because of my own left-wing friends. I can also underline what the President said about the discharge. Mr. Chairman. With many people last year it went remarkably well in the economic sense. After all, the economy grew by almost 5% and was even a percentage point higher than for the corona outbreak. The number of millionaires increased again and companies made record profits again. At the same time, the corona measures aimed at keeping us physically apart also increased the loneliness, inequality and psychological problems in society. The division in our country became painfully visible, actually much more painful than before, because at 50 square meters without daylight and with two children on lap it is harder to work at home than in a detached villa with a large garden and a home office. Average satisfaction with life has fallen to the lowest point since 1997, when it was first measured. According to the Monitor Brede Welvaart, confidence in institutions also decreased. The confidence in the cabinet but also in politics in the broad is still historically low. People's confidence among themselves has increased slightly, but consistently, one third of the population simply does not seem to have any confidence in another. So our country seems polarized and suspicious of the pandemic. Does the government believe that it is able to keep the country united and united? That is my question to the Prime Minister. How does the Prime Minister look at the growing polarization and distrust in our country and what is his vision of a solution? Polarisation can be caused by all kinds of differences in society, but often has an economic basis. Poverty is essentially nothing complicated. Poverty is simply a lack of money, which leads to transport poverty, energy poverty or another form of poverty, only with a hip contemporary term. But poverty also leads to uncertainty. Those conditions also make man. It is therefore the government's duty to improve people's living conditions, but that is not always the case for the group that needs it most. According to the government, people with the lowest incomes would make a poor 0.7% increase in 2021, but they even deteriorated according to the accounting figures in practice. The purchasing power achieved for the lowest incomes last year was -0.2%. People with low incomes, who are already struggling, thus turned in purchasing power last year, while the economy grew rapidly and the number of millionaires rose again. All other income groups improved, except those with the lowest incomes. How is that possible, I ask the cabinet. How does the Prime Minister explain that the people who are already struggling to make ends meet have to turn in under his reign, whether the economy is doing well or not? 'Cause that's how it goes almost every year. The government not only fails to combat inequality and poverty in our society, but also creates more and more uncertainty with all kinds of new plans that are negative for that same group of people, often to turn them back afterwards, but after the damage has already been done. Thus the basic grant was abolished, which increased the division. Warnings from people who would be involved were ignored. Now the measure is being reversed, but the damage and, more importantly, the debt are permanent. Driving accounts is another example of such a measure. The cabinet now intends to introduce that. According to the government, it must and will be there, but does it still pay attention to the signals and arguments from society? Is the government prepared to abandon plans such as road pricing if the concerns and arguments of society are more convincing than the possible benefits? The fact is that road pricing also threatens to be a bad thing for those with the lowest incomes, for whom there is no alternative to the car. We also heard in a briefing last week that there is absolutely no idea of the impact of charging on, for example, the differences between regions in our country and the increase in air traffic, but the coalition agreement already states that this must be done. Precisely that attitude leads to misunderstanding, mistrust and polarization. The SP calls on the government to be more open to the concern and arguments of society before such a measure is introduced. The doors of the Tower should be more open to restore mutual trust. For example, if the government had taken the concerns about rising inflation seriously earlier, it might have been able to take action in time towards the European Central Bank. Unfortunately, however, for far too long, it was pretending to be a temporary phenomenon and as if the government had no role in it either. Only today will there be a statement by the European Central Bank that action will be taken against it. That's probably way too late and way too little. The cabinet continues to respond to people's signals with distrust. But how different is that when it comes to business. Companies still owe the Tax Administration 18.5 billion euros due to deferred taxes in corona time. We also supported the postponement of these taxes at the time, because in a lockdown you do not want to give a company the last push towards bankruptcy with a blue envelope. But five years of delay was apparently not enough, because companies can now get further delay. But people's homes, households, of course, are already being dealt with. Why don't households also get at least five years of government tax deferral if companies do? Why is there always this difference: distrust towards ordinary people, but blind confidence in business? The Ombudsman put the failing approach to the continuing disaster in Groningen on the front of his annual report. That photo of Groningers waiting for compensation outside is exemplary for the way this government deals with Dutch people. Also the many victims of the surcharge scandal and the people on the blacklists at the Tax Office who have still not been compensated for the injustice they have suffered are a sign on the wall. The Tax Administration, led by the Cabinets-Rutte, has not just become a mess; it has become a discriminatory mess. People are afraid of the government, for example when applying for schemes they are entitled to, because they want to avoid conflict with the Tax Administration at all costs. We're running into that. That's outrageous. Is this the government the Prime Minister wants to leave behind? What's the Cabinet gonna do to fix this? According to the Court, therefore, the most persistent imperfection concerns the Tax Administration. The management board and the information to be used by the board have not been in order since 2014. In the Court's view, significant improvements remain outstanding. When will the tax authorities be restored and put in order, I ask the Minister of Finance. A worrying report has also been published on ICT and the use of algorithms in the government in the broad sense. The General Court looked at nine of them and six of them are not in line with the review framework. They make two concrete recommendations. One: continuously check the effect of bias and discriminatory action by algorithms to avoid undesirable systematic deviations for specific groups in society. Two: there must be supervision of the remote settings of the Empire that use algorithms when performing public tasks. In what way does the Secretary of State for Digitisation intend to take these recommendations fully and put them into practice? Does she have enough insight into all the algorithms used in the government? Does it then have enough powers to enforce improvements? In short, the government must no longer blame a corona crisis or another crisis for the shortcomings that have arisen under its own guard, but quickly put things in order. The same applies to communication with Parliament on finance. We just talked about that. We are not constantly in a crisis situation, but 63 incidental supplementary budgets were submitted in 2021. 63! Almost in all cases, 59 in fact, an exception article was used in the law, to be precise: Article 2.27 in the Compatibility Act. We must put that time behind us. Does the government agree? Does the Minister of Finance also feel the responsibility to achieve this? 2021 should have been a year in which the government had more in order than in 2020, when the corona crisis broke out. If we continue like this, so if we pretend that every event surprises us again and we need an urgent debate on an emergency budget, then there is a risk of financial maladministration. Both expenditure and commitments have already exceeded tolerance limits. That's not good. The billions of society are inexplicably spent by the State. So there isn't always corruption or something like that, but it's just not checkable. The Ministry of Health involved more than 4 billion for commitments and more than 2 billion for expenditure. How long does the cabinet plan to get away with this, now that the pandemic and the crisis seem to be more and more over? Can the Minister of Finance promise that the number of occasional budgets will be drastically reduced this year, so that Parliament can once again make a full assessment of society's money? Mr. Chairman. If the government does not set a good example to society, distrusts and divides people instead of uniting them, while the major abuses continue in the government itself, I fear that a lot of people will continue to suffer from that government and this government, that inequality and division will continue to increase and that polarisation will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Looking back on 2021, we had a great time as the Netherlands to cheer. Guido Imbens, born in Geldrop, won the Nobel Prize for Economics. He received these for his contribution to the so-called credibility revolution. Instead of building increasingly complex econometric models, Imbens and others, using natural experiments, want to investigate what is really happening in practice. A well-known example is the minimum wage. According to the theoretical models, this should lead to fewer jobs. But research in practice, a natural experiment, turned out to be the opposite. Fortunately, the CPB also adapted its model, with indirect consequences for the real world. Mr. Chairman. I was reminded of that credible revolution in the speech of the President of the General Court of Auditors on Accountability Day here. Because he was right to say that it is a question of whether whatever is on paper corresponds to reality, whether the theory is in line with practice. The question then is: what is our theory, our paradigm, as it is called with an expensive word? Then I think our self-esteem is deep down that we have all managed it fantasticly here and that they can still suck on it in the rest of the world. The basic principles of the rule of law are violated: this will be about Central or Eastern Europe. Poorly functioning public services: that must be about southern Europe. Institutional racism in one of the most powerful government organizations: that will be anywhere, but at least not here. What about this practice, this repulsive reality, all these so-called incidents, these scandals, these excesses, these affairs, all these unexplained cases? Or as it is called with an expensive word: those anomalies that do not match the expectations that follow from the idea of that raked country with which we look at ourselves. Mr. Chairman. This year we had the event Claiming and Evidence following Ms. Tielen's motion. Around Responsible Day we organised that event with the theme of the interaction between politics and science. That inspired me to take another look at the structure of scientific revolutions of one of my favorites of the philosophy of science, Thomas Kuhn. I think his political question would be something like: how many anomalies can we reason away or relate away before we switch to another paradigm with which these anomalies are no longer mysterious or mysterious, but rather logical? Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the foundation of the debate on accountability: has the government spent the money lawfully? Reference has already been made to this: in 2019, the cabinet exceeded the tolerance limit by the percentage of unlawful obligations, in particular through the unlawful purchase of Air France-KLM shares. But that was obviously an anomaly, a unique transaction with a few flaws in beauty. And hey, this is Holland, isn't it? We do everything in an economical manner, we have it in order, we do it by the rules and accounting we are the best boy in the class. Only, the following year the next anomaly came again. And in the case of the report of 2020, the percentage of unlawful obligations was exceptionally high: 2,5%. The threshold of tolerance for expenditure was also exceeded, albeit narrowly. But, yeah, the corona crisis, huh? That is a truly exceptional situation. And then what? Then came the third Wednesday of May this year with a clear mirror: a doubling of the number of unlawful obligations compared to last year. The proportion of unlawful commitments and expenditure exceeded the tolerance limit and the number of departments without overrun is now well in the minority. Mr. Chairman. D66 therefore agrees with the opinion of the Court of Auditors that these problems of legality are not only related to crisis measures, but that they are, I quote, 'underlying of a structural nature'. And so an equally structural approach is needed. Let us put aside the idea that the Netherlands is a raked country and take the rake itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	The last question by Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	Can I rely on the fact that I did not take those rules in advance? I'm already getting support from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	No, otherwise there's not enough time to question the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	I appeal to an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	Yes. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the last question. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Sneller. I think that very few people here in the Chamber have worked so hard to see in particular how we spend the money here in a good way and justify it effectively and lawfully as Mr Sneller, also as chairman of the Committee on National Expenditure. Although I do my best, and I have also been rapporteur twice, I cannot stand in his shadow. I'll do my best, but he's got a lot of credit, and I want to give him that, too. I do not want to ask him so much a technical question about all the facts and figures, but I would like to ask him how, after all the efforts he has made, he is standing here as a person who has worked hard here in recent years so that we really have that responsibility and are in control, especially when he looks at the findings of the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	First of all, those responsible are there. That is what they are at first. I shall come back to that later, as Mr Nijboer rightly said a number of times in previous debates, including the previous period, and Mr Van Dijck also said so. At the same time, I do feel that we have failed and that I have also failed a little to ensure that we were on top enough not to see the same problems this third time in a row and to see that graph goes up and not down. Next, I am also eager to ensure that we will do better in the coming year as a parliament and as chairman of the Committee on Government Expenditure, but also as a spokesman for Justice and Security.................................................................................................................................................................................... So I am also motivated here as a parliament to ensure that these leaders, as well as their colleagues, get things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	And where to start with raking, with the touchdown? I think it would be wise to start at the beginning, at the base. In The Hague we like to work on the next big sexy thing, but we often forget the boring necessary foundation: financial management, material management, information management and the Chamber's budget law. It all sounds so boring, but that base needs to be given more priority. As simple as it sounds, it turns out to be so difficult in practice. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the budget needs to be drawn up more regularly. It has already been said by Mr Heinen. There have been too many interim adjustments in recent years. Too soon, Article 2.27 has been called upon to spend that money in advance. Perhaps the worst part is that this profession was too often absent or wrong. My question to the Minister for Finance is: what is she going to do to reverse this trend? I have heard Mr Heinen's interesting proposal. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the financial function needs to be improved widely. In recent years, the number of ministries with too many unlawful obligations went from six to nine to ten. In recent years, we have also often heard from the Minister of Finance's professional K that all ministers are responsible for financial management in their own departments. And I think it's at the end, too. Is this Minister prepared to find out about Article 44 of the Constitution and to take the lead in structural improvement of financial management? Can we therefore get a mid-term report on the preparations that will hopefully be made in the autumn, so that we, as Chambers, can also assume our responsibilities and also control the cabinet in the interim? Mr. Chairman. Then specifically the Department of VWS. Last year we warned not to see the deterioration in accountability as an incident and not to see the corona crisis as a desperation for all sins. We understand that an amount of EUR 1.5 billion does not comply with the procurement rules because it has not been substantiated why it was awarded directly. In preparation for a possible new outbreak, I have the following question. Is specific attention now being paid to ensuring that tenders can be properly tendered? It seems so easy and so prosaic, but suddenly a lot has to be bought in. I would remind you of the call made by former Minister De Jonge, who said: if there is a crisis, it requires a special way of administration and a direct strengthening of that financial management. Last year additional people were added to the issue of the financial and economic function, but has this call now been taken to heart? We can also see that the FEZ department or the Financial and Economic Affairs department in a department will be looked at very quickly, as if it were being resolved there. But what is being done on VWS to ensure that the rest of the department is also under that responsibility? As far as corona is concerned, there are also problems in Economic Affairs. We see that as far as the Fixed Charges Meeting is concerned, benefits have been made without proof of legality. And we were still unable to provide more targeted support than the generic measures that helped us through that crisis. We can see that now. Whether it is inflation, the crisis in Ukraine, Groningen or the surcharge affair, it becomes a pattern. What is being done to ensure that we are well prepared for such a next uncertainty, crisis or what you want to call it, where there is a need to provide more targeted support? How then is it ensured that we can do so, that the implementing organisations are equipped and that we can switch on and that there is also a good test on legality? Because crisis often comes in a hurry, but it is precisely in wartime that these bunches come in with the leaky boots and just in corona time that we saw all over the world that criminals were looking at the aid money with coveted eyes. I remember the warning given by Minister Koolmees at the beginning of the corona crisis very well: we must act quickly, the corona support must be swift and with that we consciously take a risk. There was broad understanding of that. But if there is a clear and deliberate abuse, our response must also be firm at the same time. In the United States, a special prosecutor has been appointed to pursue those who have unlawfully benefited from the pandemic. The answer to the actual questions is in itself optimistic about the steps being taken to find out about the fraudsters, but can the cabinet continue to inform us about this? What lessons do we draw from this for future incentive programmes? Mr. Chairman. Defence is also calling for our attention again. That's not gonna be any less, no, that's gonna be more now that we're gonna make extra investments. Last week's Defence Paper rightly contains a lot of words about the additional expenditure. But less often the term "management" fell. And yet, in my view, there is a very good challenge for the Minister to halve the number of shortcomings in her new department as she did in the previous department. But at least half it, because there's still a lot to do. How does the cabinet ensure that the additional financial resources ensure that we get that base straight away instead of distracting it? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the shortcomings in financial management and material management, information management is often inadequate. The General Court says time and time again that the directional role, the supervisory role in this is not sufficiently taken up by the BZK. We are pleased that the Secretary of State is getting on with the recommendations, but I am asking the same question I asked the Minister of Finance about financial management. What is she going to do to fill in this directing, more supervisory role? Will it also set up frameworks on how to deal with digital projects within the other departments, including ensuring their compliance? Can we receive a letter on this before the budget debate? Would it not be good to have a digital budget in the budget cycle with expenditure on digitalisation, broken down by department by procurement, management, maintenance and algorithms? Mr. Chairman. The Court paid extra attention to algorithms as an integral part of a digital government in the accountability investigation. Mr Alkaya has already mentioned it. We must ensure that algorithms lead their lives and make far-reaching decisions about human lives without proper control. We are therefore pleased that the algorithm register will be available. More attention will be paid to this issue in the main debate that is to take place shortly. As a result of the Court's investigation, I would also like to draw attention here to the importance of transparency and traceability. What is the government going to do in concrete terms to ensure that this transparency and traceability can be demonstrated in the next audit? I am thinking in particular of the six that Mr Alkaya mentioned and which did not pass through the review framework. Mr. Chairman. As I said in an interrupting debate, it is clear that the cabinet is the first to be responsible for improvement. But also the Chamber has a responsibility as an auditor and as a co-legislator. How? Well, for example, in determining what can and can't be done. This is now happening on the basis of the tolerance limits set by the General Court itself and the reporting limits set by the government. In 1992, as Minister of Finance, Wim Kok stated that he was not Prime Minister at the time that it was reasonable for the States-General to set these limits. 30 years later, this glove still hasn't been picked up. Now that the borders have been crossed, I think it would be a good idea to highlight them more clearly as a parliament. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter in the second term. Mr. Chairman. As a chamber, we will also have to focus more on the base. We must give serious consideration to our monitoring task in this respect. This simply means more energy and more attention to financial management than just calling "shame" once a year. If there's a scandal in the meantime, we're gonna have to jump on top of it. Fortunately, last week we had a very busy meeting with the many rapporteurs who are going to analyse the annual reports of the various departments. But small and slightly larger, opposition and coalition, we're all gonna have to run a little faster here. A nice look at better times we already got at that V-100, where young scientists took the time to think up questions about accountability. I thank them for those questions. I would also like to thank you for your written reply, although I must point out that a number of departments are still studying. But that seems to me to be a compliment for those questions. Mr. Chairman. I saw a good example on the issue of the labour market in health care. It was submitted by the permanent chamber committee of VWS. That question was about the evaluation of the Corona Jobs grant scheme in the care sector. This is potentially an important support, to relieve the burden on healthcare staff by investing in support functions. But the ministers at VWS got off a bit easy in their response by reporting that the subsidy scheme is still in place. So let me ask you on behalf of these young scientists: can the Cabinet promise that there will be a proper evaluation of this subsidy scheme, and especially whether the experience with this approach can be used in other areas in the public sector, where there is tightness? Mr. Chairman. I also hope that the other standing committees will take up the rest of the questions and answers for a follow-up. In addition, other ways have been developed to involve scientists more often in our parliamentary work. I am thinking, for example, of the science test. So far, however, it often turns out that the hypotheses on which policy is based are not really falsifiable, as another scientific philosopher and great lover of open society would say. And that is, of course, necessary in order to make progress possible, i.e. policy must contain concrete and manageable objectives. It is a legal obligation under Article 3 (1) of the Compatibility Act. Otherwise, you will not be able to evaluate, learn or improve. The Wider Prosperity Monitor and the integration of these indicators offer many clues to this. The time has really come, as far as I am concerned, to take a serious step in this. Mr Van Raan nods in agreement. Mr. Chairman. Is the cabinet prepared to make a concrete proposal on this before the next budget? How is it ensured that all efforts of the previous cabinet under the heading of Operation Understanding Quality are not watered down? In fact, how do we ensure that we take some further steps forward? After all, they remain necessary. Mr. Chairman. Speaking time is a bit like taxpayers' money: it doesn't have to be eaten. So I'm rounding up. The results of the accountability research and the many other reports, reviews and investigations of the past period are sufficient proof to say that we can say goodbye to the image of the Netherlands as a raked country, to exchange that for the realization that we need to work hard to strengthen the foundation. Jan Terlouw writes in his book: beware of people who know something for sure. Those who increase knowledge increase responsibility. I'd like to repeat that to him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	First of all, let me join with Mr Azarkan's compliments on Mr Sneller. But in the past, I have had difficulty with the theoretical purity that Mr Sneller has always maintained and advocated, and the political reality in which he too finds himself. All we need to do is look at the abolition of the dividend tax and the introduction of the Job-related Investment Discount. There are all these kinds of things that had to and would happen because of political reality, while there were all kinds of signals from society that it was not right. It was held on for far too long. Some have even been implemented, such as the abolition of the basic grant; that has also come back to me. So I am concerned when I hear now that there is no picture yet of the impact of road pricing on regions, or of differences between regions, but that the coalition agreement already states that it must and will come about. Does Mr Sneller think that road pricing, i.e. paying for use, should and will be done regardless of all the arguments and concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	What Mr Alkaya said in his own contribution was: if there are too many worries. I think you'll have to judge it by its content. And only the feeling of "being concerned" is, in my opinion, insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	Sure. I do not blame Mr Sneller. I'm also spokesperson infrastructure, so I was in the briefing; he wasn't there himself. But there is therefore no picture of the effect of charging on differences between different regions in the Netherlands. There isn't that image. That is not just a subjective emotional concern from society; the image is simply not there. Does Mr Sneller therefore at least consider that there should be an image of such matters, i.e. the effect on differences between regions in the Netherlands, but also on aviation, for example? Let's say you're going to pay to use. Now it's thought: we're just gonna look at the mileage. Then it becomes more expensive to go on holiday by car. But it has not been investigated what that means for aviation, that people find it more attractive to take the plane on vacation. Such matters must at least be sorted out before we can move on to what is in the coalition agreement, namely that there should be a law, so that a law is already being made in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mr Alkaya is right to say that I am not a spokesperson on this subject. So he knows what path he's pulling me on. But for the topics on which I myself speak, I think it is important that I get a look at these things. Mr Alkaya made this clear immediately to the view that the principle should be called into question, while it was often a question of the conditions and implementation. But it seems to me to be useful and often necessary to have that kind of thing in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	I enjoyed Mr Sneller's speech. Compliments for that. I don't have a "but," I have an "and." That's different than saying "but." He is right to say, as Mr Heinen did, that we are dealing with a number of crises. He called that "absolute." He also rightly asked the question: how many anomalies, anomalies, do you need to have before you question the paradigm? I thought that was a very intriguing question. In his further speech, he focused only on improving the instruments to measure things better and to prevent etc. et cetera et cetera. My question is this. Does he think we need a paradigm change, a system change, or does he say, well, no, we're going to change the foundation, but basically we're going to keep it the same? That's what I was curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	There is a dispute as to whether a cash liability system versus a income-burden system is one of the foundations of your financial management. But apart from that: when it comes to financial management, I think that the foundation itself can remain the same, but the way you apply it must change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr Van Raan, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	We agree on that. That system discussion is also very interesting. But he also mentioned those anomalies, those crises. That goes a little further than the accounting way we handle our finances. I thought I could tell him how many of those deviations, how many of those crises you can tolerate, before you realize that the paradigm has changed or needs to be changed. Others call it "system change." How far is D66 in the mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	Mr Van Raan has some examples in his head. I mentioned the purchase of Air France-KLM and I mentioned the corona crisis. Then you get Ukraine. I do not think there is much connection between these three different issues. At the same time, it depends on each individual subject and varies according to scientific theory how many exceptions you have needed and what alternative paradigm or alternative view there is or is obvious to explain. But this is getting a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	I asked Mr Heinen about the effectiveness and effectiveness of public spending. I already have a little half a promise that we can look more closely at funds. I would like to ask Mr Sneller about fiscal expenditure. There are still a lot of tax regulations that are simply proven to be ineffective and cost a lot of tax money by reducing revenues. Is Mr Sneller prepared to take a closer look at this and beat it up once, for the sake of a better functioning tax administration, but also for the sake of a more effective government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u86	The problem raised by Mr Nijboer is actually much broader. How much government policy can you not even say if it is effective or effective? For tax regulations, I am certainly prepared to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then we will listen to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u88	The minutes walk back, Mr. Chairman. Still, I have 12 more, which is more than enough. "Not everything can, and certainly not everything at once." That's what former Prime Minister Drees said in the past. I have already mentioned this in the General Financial Reviews. I also found this to apply to the Court of Auditors' reports and this year's accountability. The Court of Auditors calls it that: it is difficult to roll the money, and it does not always roll in the desired direction. Or as Cruijff used to say, I've never seen a bag of money score. Mr. Chairman. That metaphor fits, I think, the performance of the past year. You can see that there is almost 5 billion in underspending. That's the technical term. But that's basically across the board, whether it's education, Defense, childcare allowance, Groningen, the sustainability of homes... If we had known that energy prices had been this way, would we have pushed them even harder last year to realize that? These are all ambitions that the cabinet had and which were not realized last year. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that. It's not a small beer, is it? It's 5 billion and it's actually across the board. How is it that so many ambitions were not fulfilled last year? How is that possible? I would also like to make a plea for economy. That also refers a little back to the interruptions I have committed. A lot of budgets have been allocated in the budget, but there are few plans and analyses. I'd like to turn it around anyway. In the past, say ten years ago, it was still a bit of a habit: there was a social problem, there was an analysis of it, there were directions for solutions, that cost a lot and then budget was made available. The trend has become more and more the other way around. We have priorities: traffic, growth fund, nitrogen, climate. We have a lot of money and then we have to see what we're going to do with it. This makes it more inefficient and ineffective to spend public funds. I have great concerns about this and ask the cabinet to respond to it. I think that's where part of the underspending comes from. 'Cause if you don't know exactly what you're gonna do with that money, you're gonna be dangling all year. You don't get it done, there are no people for it or the ideas are not sufficiently worked out. It is not for nothing that the nitrogen fund, for example, is pushed forward every year. That's a big concern of mine. Is the Cabinet prepared to reverse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u89	I get the question. At the same time, this affects another point: do you reach an agreement on the main points, yes or no? We have had a broad discussion here in the Chamber, in which there was also a broad wish to conclude a coalition agreement or a coalition agreement more broadly. This means that there are already fewer plans linked to the budgets in advance. Should I interpret Mr Nijboer's question in such a way that he is actually advocating a more closed, more extensive coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u90	No, but that's also a bit of a false contradiction. No, not a little bit; it's totally a false contradiction. When you talk about the big funds, the broad lines, climate and nitrogen, I am in favour of the polluter paying: higher CO taxes and less subsidies. That is a general direction that is different from the direction chosen. If you opt for subsidies, for example in the case of nitrogen, for buying out farmers voluntarily, it costs a lot of money. 25 billion is budgeted for that. If you haven't thought about how, then you're almost asking that you've lost a lot of money while you're not solving the problem. So there is something else under there than just that it is on the main lines or not. You can also decide on the main points and still make other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u91	We'll get it sharper by then. You are not so much in agreement with the coalition agreement as with the plans contained in it. That's okay, isn't it? It is also the essence of the debate that we disagree. But I do have one more question. How do you assess that you say, on the one hand, 'I do not agree' and, on the other hand, 'there are no plans'? If there are no plans, can't you disagree? I still find that contradictory.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u92	So I'm making a plea for economy. What I do not agree with as a financial spokesman is that a lot of money is being made available without knowing where it is going. What is illustrative is that for next week in the spring note, but it does illustrate the fact that a few billions can be taken out of these funds and the cabinet cannot say: what is not going to happen? That's because they don't know what they're gonna do with it, but of course that's weird. That's really not wise. That is not a sensible budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u93	No, but then I'm going back to my first question. If I hear Mr Nijboer correctly, he would have preferred to see more plans in the coalition agreement, which essentially means a more, what we call here, boarded-up coalition agreement. In the end, you would have been more satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u94	Well, I would've been very satisfied if it had been more thorough, if that's what you mean. That's a lot different than "closely boarded." That's really a lot different than "closely boarded." Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to my second main point. The cabinet has actually been a missionary throughout the past year, but it has been missionary on two subjects and corona, namely the childcare allowance, the reason that the cabinet has become a missionary, and Groningen. There too you can see a bit of the same pattern. The money is almost unlimited. The childcare allowance was first estimated at half a billion. That's already at 5.5 billion and we're not there yet. Many billions were also made available at Groningen. I am not against this either, but the problems need to be solved, not... Well, "buyed off" might be a little harsh, but it doesn't help. My question to the cabinet is: if the cabinet said that it was really missionary on these two issues last year, how can it be that so little progress has been made over the past year? How then is it that the legal deadlines are not met? Then how come the parents weren't helped? How, then, is it possible that a great deal of money has been made available for the EUR 30 000 scheme, about the legality of which has already been discussed extensively, but that not half of the people have said 'well, this is done', as expected, but only 4.6% said that? That's a lot of relationships. How is that possible? How can that still be so bad at Groningen? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting on the... I see Mr Grinwis as well, but I don't know if he's hanging or if he's standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u95	Sometimes he runs away, too. Yeah, a natural moment? Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u96	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had to check something before I started posting this interruption. Let me now turn to the issue of efficiency, Mr Nijboer's first issue. I understand his point, especially in this run-up. The funds have only recently been agreed, and the institutional laws still have to go to the Chambers and actually have to walk. You're in the middle of something. Have the plans been sufficiently worked out? Does the money have to go there yet, yes or no? I actually hope that the Minister will answer his question negatively, let me put it this way. Why? Because it is precisely funds that offer the opportunity to rationally programme for a long time and to solve very well-considered problems that we have to solve: nitrogen, but also climate, for example. That is not just a question of pricing. We are, aren't we? Luckily, CO finally has a price compared to the thirty years before. But if you want to fight climate change and promote the energy transition, that's just digging into the ground and changing and tackling a lot of infrastructure, so that requires long-term and predictable programming, so that the market can also anticipate. The Mobility Fund has an important role to play in this and has been an example. So is the Delta Fund. The climate fund and the nitrogen fund must also function in this way. Has Mr Nijboer sufficiently taken this aspect into account in his plea for efficiency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u97	I'm not against funds at all in advance. The Mobility Fund is a good example of how this can work. Then you have a discussion about what you're doing to what: what to public transport, what to roads? And then you also have bike paths and water, but good. That's what you have a discussion about, and then you see what you want to do. With climate, you have an ambition to achieve a goal: a reduction of 60% of GDP we want 65% of GDP in a given year. As far as I'm concerned, you'll first look at how you get the best at as little social cost as possible. I think that more opting for taxation and less for subsidising is wiser than setting up a large fund and then looking at how you're going to spend it. That's my other approach to that. When it comes to nitrogen, it's different. I think that focusing on nature areas and the buying out of farmers, whatever parties are against, which I understand very well, is more effective than making a lot of money available and then going on quite voluntarily. That's not wise. I'm not a nitrogen spokesperson, but I think we're gonna get a lot of noise on that Friday. So I'm not against funds in principle, but I'm very concerned about the way this was designed. This debate is also intended to monitor efficiency as a financial spokesman. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third issue: illegal expenditure and obligations. A lot has been said about that. It's gotten worse for the third year in a row. Indeed, at the time I had a rather solid debate with Minister Hoekstra about the stock purchase. You can discuss all this in those committees, which I welcome, but on such matters you can also bring it up directly if it has not been done in accordance with the budgetary rules. That's what was used to be laconic. At the time, the Court of Auditors said that it was not. Then the Prime Minister said if I had stuck a postage stamp differently, it would have been good. But does he agree that there is a structural deterioration in legality and obligations in recent years? And what's the Cabinet going to do to reverse that tide? Because that is really necessary, also because of the budgetary right of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I got five points this time. I now come to my fourth theme. Those are, in fact, some separate issues that I have some questions about, for example, the energy networks. They're under a lot of pressure. I just saw another message about Liander, where everything is red. If you want to put a solar panel in Buinen as a football association, you've been at it for two years before you can do it at all. People want to be sustainable and can't be sustainable right now. At the same time, there is a discussion about data centers: do you want them or not? I wonder how it could have happened that there seem to be relatively few ideas about how we can put these energy networks in time and how we can come along. Of course, this has become even more urgent with the energy crisis, but it was of course already urgent. The sustainability was already under way, but we are only moving faster now. Mr. Chairman. I have three questions about the IRS. I have one question about ICT. It is in line with previous speakers and their concerns about this. The second question concerns the number of checks. This really is a retrograde process, both for SMEs and for individuals. If you want to keep tax morals up, you just need to check it out. Does the cabinet have any proposals to raise that rather than the reduction in the number of checks for years? I am very concerned about that. The third point in the area of taxation concerns fiscal expenditure. I see that in the proposals there is a certain amount of work being done, such as the expat scheme and the succession scheme, but I would think it wise to question the main issue of tax expenditure. I made this point last year in the debate on accountability. Is the cabinet willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. Another concern is cybersecurity. That question is for the Secretary of State for Digital Affairs. She's also about Kingdom relations, but the question doesn't see that. Cyber security is certainly crucial now, with Russian influences in Europe. How's that going? What has the Cabinet done about it over the past year? And if that's okay, that's the domestic question. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last and perhaps most important point: broad prosperity. Mr Alkaya mentioned that. Since the display of the monitor, well-being and satisfaction in the Netherlands have never been so low. That's not what I'm gonna pin on the cabinet. That wouldn't make any sense, because of course it's mainly from corona. The question to the cabinet is: has there been sufficient attention in the corona policy to the well-being and also to the mental well-being of people? I don't think so. I also think that in the broader policy, which is not just about corona, but about all our policies, such as financial and economic policy, people's well-being should be much more important. Does the Cabinet share that? To illustrate this: this morning the CPB came to that we are also talking about next week with analyses of who is going to be in the financial problems in different scenarios. You can approach that very financially by looking at how much euro you're short, but the problem is, I think, the stress and misery that you can't buy food for your children or that you have to quit sports clubs. That, I think, is the problem that needs to be addressed. Then the question is: what is the best way to use it? We will make proposals again next week for what you can best do about it. For example, can you better focus on supporting lower incomes and middle incomes? The CPB also said something about this this morning: raising the minimum wage, raising benefits, perhaps paying tax rebates. I don't think that the latter in the technique can be that fast, so I think that's analytical... but that's better than the generic that the cabinet has done. If you know that, and if you put the well-being of people, which is supposed to drive us all, first, why does the cabinet make the choices it's going to make? And why has the cabinet made choices over the past year that led to the lowest incomes and, in particular, the tenants getting worse again? How did that happen when those people experience most of the problems? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u98	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk. I suggest we suspend for lunch afterwards. I see that trade-K needs that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u99	Mr. Chairman. Accountability day is about stewardship, about economical and careful handling of community money. The question of how far that happened in 2021 is at the centre of today's debate. I would like to discuss this with the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitisation and the Minister for Finance, the Minister for our Community Money. Because, yes, we are dealing with special years: corona, inflation and a terrible war. And yes, that affects our actions and makes the complex. But I also want to turn it around: because just when we need each other as much as we need each other as government, as a parliament and as a society, we need to show our citizens that we can also work carefully to help who needs help. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by asking whether the cabinet has spent our money properly. The answer is: there is still room for improvement. The Court of Auditors notes that, for the third consecutive year, we now have to establish that legality is a problem and that it is really time to put financial management in order. That is why I have three comments and a number of questions on this, for our important point. Firstly, we see that a large part of the commitments have not been made demonstrably legally. It is also a growing part. This not only means that the 1% tolerance limit has been substantially exceeded, but it is also a large amount. Late we are honest: we are dealing with a structural problem. I would therefore like to ask whether the cabinet shares this view. We also see that problems vary from department to department. This brings me to the conclusion, as last year, that the full responsibility of the Minister for Finance should be improved. Because yes, departments are responsible themselves: I know that answer from last year. But it seems to me that the Minister of our Community money should also feel the intrinsic motivation to look with the fellow ministers. So, like my question last year, how does the Minister of Finance view my conclusion and how is she going to strengthen her role? Moreover, it is not the case that we in Parliament did not know some things or that we are not jointly responsible for them. I refer in particular to the more than 1 billion which is linked to recovery and compensation payments to those affected by the child allowance affair. There's no legal basis for this, and we knew that. But here we have chosen speed over quality of preparation. Whether this was a good choice for the parents, I'll come back to that later in my story. Secondly, we see that in the past year there has been frequent recourse to Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act. A lot has been said about that. The Prime Minister did so in the 2020 Accountability debate, saying that one additional stamp ministers could have saved many injustices. What does the Prime Minister mean by that? Did he exploit the democratic importance of the 5 billion letter that should have been in that envelope? Isn't this pronunciation typical of what we see happening? We are making more and more use of the note without giving sufficient consideration to the question of why we choose to do so. The same applies to all supplementary budgets. Often they had to deal with corona measures. This led to Parliament getting a different budget every three to four weeks. Does it make our budgetary process more transparent and more controllable? My question is: can we also deepen this issue a little further with each other? I don't want to shout "shame" right away; I especially want to improve. Can the Minister provide us with an overview of all the interim adjustments to the budget and, per measure, a reflection on whether this really should have come to Parliament in this way or whether it would have been more appropriate to have more solid treatment? During last Monday's stock purchase of KLM, we took that time. I believe that this will benefit decision-making but also transparency towards our citizens about what we do with community money. Thirdly, I would like to mention the question of how we deal with the control of our provinces and municipalities. To sum up, the vast majority of public money is collected via the state taxes, but the actual use is not controlled and accounted for in the state account, because that is the case with the local authorities, and that is also fine. My expectation is that this will only be more. The signals from these local authorities that they are lacking in order to do their job properly, combined with the fact that we do not really have a good understanding of this and therefore no automatic adjustment is taking place, really worries me. Through the VNG they are allowed to ring the bell, but is there enough listening to them? The CDA sees local authorities as the main partner of cooperation, and The Hague as the mother of these local authorities. I wonder how the Minister of Finance sees this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an answer to the question of whether the euros are rolling in the right direction and whether things are well organised. The General Court has a strong focus on the quality of policy implementation, and specifically on how citizens get out of the picture with implementing organisations. Several previous reports have already focused on the reality of implementation, prior to and during the decision-making process, and on the administrative alertness of the cabinet and a healthy dose of reality on the side of parliament, combined with respect for the time factor. But how much time do we dare to take when the misery is great, for example in the case of the supplement parents? I find that complicated, because the sense of justice bites with the sense of reality, and we know the consequences in this case: an implementation organisation that is failing and taking very slow steps, and much worse, parents who wait and wait, and trust that continues to decline. So the question is: did we make the right choice? I'd like to get a reflection from the Prime Minister on this. I would like to mention one more example which shows that this broad part of the issue of implementation is really justified in practice. I'd like to take you to Mr. De Haas. He's 82 years old and he lives in an old farm. He's just trying to clear the place up in spite of his health. He still has a few sheep, a goat, some chickens and a horse, and a family that unfortunately lives a little further away. This man has an AOW and a towering energy bill. So he called me and said, "Inge, can you help me apply for energy compensation?" This gentleman has no computer, no printer, no scanner and no e-mail address. But in order to qualify, he must first print the application form. Then he'll have to fill it out. Then he needs to scan it, along with his ID, his bank statements, his energy bill and his income certificate. Only then can it be taken into treatment. This gentleman is panicking. The letters of formal notice are piling up. When I came to visit him a few weeks ago to help him with this mess, he was sitting under a blanket on the couch in an ice-cold house. He was furious. He said, "Inge, I've worked so hard all my life. I never raised my hand. I've been trying to help everyone who needed something. Now I need the government, and now they don't trust me." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must turn the tide. We need to get back to trust and more human size, because we want a government where this gentleman can call. We want the money to be transferred and that the gentleman gets a visit from, for example, the village supporter to check if he can make it or if he might need more help. Is that being taken advantage of? Yeah, right. Can't we accept that? No, we can't accept that. But leaving people in the cold like that gives me the creeps. On 24 March, together with Mr Van der Graaf, I tabled a motion for a resolution (35387, No. 10) on the motion for a resolution (Doc. In the case of proposals for new laws and regulations, particularly if they affect citizens' income, it is necessary to carry out a performance test and to inform the Chamber of the experience and findings of this test as of 1 September 2023. But I feel more urgency. I would therefore like to hear from the cabinet today how it sees the approach of this motion and the current state of play of this motion. Another motion, which is 35830 No. 13, which I tabled in this debate last year and which I would like to reflect on. Because I haven't found anything about this in this year's pieces. However, this is partly to the essence of monitoring effectiveness and efficiency. Last year I asked for the starting point to be that, where possible and where appropriate and useful, national policies should include measurable objectives for a better understanding of the effectiveness of the policy, for which clear instructions should be included in the Integrated Framework of Account, and to inform the Chamber on how this principle will be secured nationally. I would like to hear a response to this. Mr. Chairman. Then broad prosperity. Wide prosperity is about the quality of life in the here and now, taking into account the extent to which it affects the quality of life of future generations and people elsewhere in the world. The idea behind this is that policy decisions and reports should focus not only on economic growth and material prosperity, but on all welfare and welfare aspects. The cabinet considers developments in the area of broad prosperity, including integration into the budgetary and policy systems, to be of great importance. And so are we. But do we find the monitor as it is now in front of the glasses so we have to look to determine whether the Netherlands is doing well? I have a number of questions about this. Some things in the report make sense. We recognize these as joint major challenges, such as dissatisfaction with the housing market and concerns about the climate. There is rightly a great deal of attention to this. But I also see another common thread, namely that there are still many differences, but also that many Dutch people are tired. More people work and are also satisfied with their work, is described. But how long can our residents keep this up? Working more with an inflation rate of around 10% sometimes happens mainly to keep paying the bills, not to be able to do nice things or give your children something extra. We also read that the psychological burden is increasing; the balance is missing. Things such as volunteering and social participation are declining. The fact that we as the Netherlands still score well on this with respect to other countries is nice. But that's 0.0 excuse to just let this happen. Mr. Chairman. We debate in the Chamber after debate about the Atlas of Abandoned Netherlands, about the great importance of trust between different groups in society and about the importance of people feeling accepted. I see a very big opportunity there. Because it says in the monitor: "The idea is that large social participation leads to more trust among people in each other, to more trust between different groups in society and to more acceptance, and to more trust in important institutions, i.e. to a stronger society." Any improvement starts with people who want to work together to create a better society. Therefore, the CDA would like to know more about the idea described, namely that large social participation might partly be an answer to, in my own words, the withdrawal from the Netherlands. The CDA believes it is necessary to deepen this and to focus our policy on this. I would like to hear an opinion from our Prime Minister on this. We also see that we are faced with a number of fundamental choices if we want to focus on broad prosperity. The starting point "leave no one behind" is a nice anchor. The distribution of income and wealth is relevant in this respect, but also the principle of working must pay. How are we going to conduct this debate consistently? Will these anchors be the basis of proposals such as the tax plan, which we have to decide on every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u100	There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mrs Van Dijk's contribution has been taken from my heart, especially the example she cited of the 82-year-old man who was really unhappy there. I also look forward to the support of the CDA for the proposals we will make next week to improve purchasing power. But we're talking about last year. I would like to ask Mrs Van Dijk what her opinion is on cabinet policy on the social issue she is so pressing about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u102	As I can judge it now, my opinion is that we are really not looking very closely at the implementation. We think too quickly that a paper solution is also a practical solution. That is what I try to put forward in every debate in one way or another. But if you ask me that question, I still haven't succeeded. I really think: if we want to settle something in practice for people, then we also need to be sure that it is going to land with the right people. Unfortunately, I still see too many fine intentions, while the practice and implementation turn out to be a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u103	I also think that Mrs Van Dijk has a very nice contribution, although I thought that Mr Sneller's most beautiful statement today was. He concluded with this statement by Jan Terlouw: who increases knowledge, increases responsibility. I feel a little more connected to what I think Jan Terlouw's father would have said. He was a strong reformed preacher in Garderen and Wezep and I think he would have said: who increases knowledge or science increases sorrow. It's in the Proverbs Book. Maybe Jan Terlouw should have listened to his father a little better. Anyway, my question is about the following. I also read the Monitor Brede Prosperity. That's what you should do as a politician. I shouldn't have done it, because it gave me some grief. My question is whether that's shared sorrow. I saw that the indicator that has fallen the most and that is the worst is voluntary work. My question to Mrs Van Dijk is whether that is shared sorrow and whether she too thinks that we should do everything we can to make a real reversal of that in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u104	I'm very glad you asked that question, because yes, I do. That was actually the indicator that led me to put this story on paper, because I really believe that associations and our volunteers are very important cement in our society. We see how difficult they are. Sometimes this is expressed in complaints about UBO registers, but there is just something quite different behind it, namely: please help us to be a volunteer again and please help us to do beautiful things in society again. I think we can run much harder for that here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u105	I'm pleased with that answer. I am glad that Mrs Van Dijk is quoting the UBO register. We recently had a conversation with a CDA colleague from Mrs Van Dijk with a whole group of volunteers. They said that the UBO register ensures that the growth of volunteers but also the keeping of the present volunteers simply disappears. Does Mrs Van Dijk therefore agree with me that perhaps we should put that on the spot in order to keep giving volunteering body and that we really need to change the UBO register for at least that group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u106	I am not yet going to give that answer, because I think that in order to determine what 1, 2 or 3 is, we should ask out much more from associations what they really need. I think that we should not only pick up a number 1 to help these associations, but also numbers 2 and 3 and maybe 5 and 6. So I think that question is a little less relevant. I think that we should go into more detail about what they need to be relieved and that we should simply make a much broader plan with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u107	That may indeed be very sensible; you should always listen to colleagues. I agree. Whether it's 1, 2 or 3, is for the CDA that UBO registry firmly anchored in that plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u108	We have asked questions about the UBO register a number of times for a reason. Above all, we are concerned about the maintenance of the UBO register: is it indeed going to affect the volunteers? We have already had a brief debate on this with the Minister of Finance. She has tried to convince us that the great risks will really be maintained. Those aren't the volunteers. I believe that we should monitor whether this is indeed the way it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u109	I very much appreciate Mrs Van Dijk, because I know she speaks straight out of her heart and does not say anything here in front of the stage in terms of: look at me be good. That's what I want to say. I am sure that Mrs Van Dijk is very much in favour of this social participation, but during the last corona period, of course, we had to deal with that terrible coronapas, that ctb, which also excluded people. For example, I spoke to someone who was a longtime volunteer at the Food Bank and was not allowed to come because he did not want to or could not be vaccinated. Anyway, he wasn't vaccinated and was actually just sent away. That relationship just broke up. The gentleman said to me, "No matter how much I want, I just can't come back there again." We're going to be back in a corona period, of course. I hope not, but if you can believe everything, millions of people will get infected again. I don't know if that's true, but I don't believe it, but what if it were in a worst case scenario and we were going to get lockdowns again, which we're talking about again...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u110	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u111	Yeah, the question. I'm gonna go all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u112	It's like a tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u113	Yeah, I'm sorry, it'll just go through my head again. My question is whether Mrs Van Dijk would like to keep within her group the plea that she is now making for this social participation. Because if we go back to where we've been, I'm actually gonna see it go wrong with that social participation again. And it hasn't recovered yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u114	I would very much like to make my plea about social participation everywhere, so certainly in my group. I actually think that we should continue to tell this story with each other throughout the Netherlands. So yeah, I'll keep that plea there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u115	Mrs. Van der Plas. No, it was enough. Please continue, Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u116	Finally. There was talk of Jan Terlouw's father. I didn't always listen to my own father, but sometimes a little bit. A year ago, during this debate, I was allowed to make my maiden speech. At that time, I talked about "the ordinary man," the man or the woman we have to keep in mind all the time with every cent we spend. So in this story I referred to our dad and PISA, the satirical program of the VARA, which talked about the common man. That's the guy who doesn't walk by his shoes, leaves for work every morning in his Kadett, comes home at night and reads the paper every day. I still like my dad. Every day he drank a beer after work, read the newspaper and then grumbled aloud about everything he read, on the one hand because he felt something about it, but especially because the negativity touched him. He's been dead eight years. At his funeral he wanted to hear the song If I were in charge of the Children's Journal. Because he also wanted beautiful stories to be shared, so in addition to the honest story about the things that go wrong in this country, more attention would be paid to the news that we sometimes think of: ha, fine! I would like to conclude with a nice story about an alderman in Almere, Froukje de Jonge, who happens to be a CDA alderman. She is in the process of realizing a house for parents, a house where they can meet, help and heal. That house is co-financed by local entrepreneurs. It's a story of pulling the strings together. That starts with admitting that mistakes have been made, and then it's about putting our hands together to make amends. Finally, I have a nice story: our colleague Anne became a mother yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u117	Congratulations, Anne, from here! Very nice. There is an interruption by Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mrs Van Dijk has the local authorities quite high. She says it's a good thing that more and more money goes there. What does Mrs Van Dijk think of the arbitrariness, the fact that it matters whether you live in The Hague or not? If you live in The Hague, for example, you will receive an energy surcharge of €900. If you live in Rotterdam, you get an energy supplement from 140% social minimum. If you live in Deurne, you may get €800 or nothing at all. If you're unlucky like Uncle Willem or what was the name of that gentleman of yours? You'll get nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u119	You'll have to listen a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u120	What do you think of this randomness?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u121	Two things. First of all, I welcome the fact that local authorities have a great deal of their own responsibility to make choices. I really believe that the best choices can be made close to the citizen. Perhaps it is a very good choice to be arbitrary, but we can see in this case that it is really getting very exciting when it comes to being able to pay the bills. We also have another technical briefing on Monday. I think it is wise to talk to each other about this and to talk to the VNG and the municipalities about it. That is wise in this case, because we simply see that a lot of people can actually not pay the bill anymore. Especially if we want to leave the implementation of this in the future with the municipalities, which might be the best solution, we need to have a serious debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u122	Thank you. Mr Tony van Dijck's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u123	The point is that the figures show that only half of the people who are entitled to this have received the energy surcharge. In other words, it goes wrong in the execution of those municipalities and it goes wrong because of the randomness. Because as far as I'm concerned, it shouldn't matter which municipality you live in: you're entitled to that €800 at 120% social minimum. It can't be that my neighbor who just lives in another municipality suddenly gets much more or much less. In other words, I have problems with implementation, with this arbitrariness and with the fact that half of it has not yet been done, while we have been two months ahead. Don't we have to do much more before we put something like that $800 that sounds fun to get into the world, think about the execution: is it feasible and how are we going to fly it? Because this isn't how people get it. The people are even suspicious of the government and think: if we accept the €800 later, the government will come back for that money through the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u124	I totally agree with you. That is why I also asked for a reflection on the motion that we tabled on that implementation test, particularly when it comes to income-related schemes. So we are simply in agreement. I think Mr Van Dijck is also very interested in the Minister's answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u125	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Omtzigt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u126	Indeed, this €800 scheme is precisely the one that is totally inadequate. In fact, 1.1 million households are falling by the CPB today and up to 800,000 households are receiving this compensation. Those are not always the good households, so there are 400,000 to 500,000 households that according to the CPB fall through the ground and do not get that compensation. On the other hand, we haven't even dealt with the law yet. So the government said in December: you get €200. In March they made it €800. The law was tabled here in April, we received answers in May and we still have to deal with it in plenary. How is the coalition going to ensure that we get proper legal treatment, people know exactly what they are entitled to and people are compensated when they really can't live without it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u127	Of course, I can't answer for the coalition. I can only answer for the CDA. We will try to conduct this debate on substance with you and with the rest of the Chamber. I also think that we should include the knowledge of what awaits us in the treatment of that law. Because yes, we do see on the basis of the news reports and reports that we are not there yet in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u128	That's clear. We can see we're not here yet. I see an opening there for what else we will have to do in the next few weeks. But I'm asking for a reflection. Because now the government is being asked to reflect on this, but the coalition itself has decided in a coalition consultation that it is going to pay this out. He did not submit it to the Chamber; it still has to be dealt with in the Chamber. Municipalities are already running. Mr Van Dijck rightly says: they do it all differently, but they don't even know how to interpret the law. How do we look back on that? Do we think that this is a decent way of making an important arrangement, because I think it is important that it should be carried out, or are we going to do so differently in the coming months? Because if we do it this way, we'll be dealing with laws here when the money's already been spent and we'll be here for Jan with the short last name.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u129	I think that is a very fair question. I have also tried to indicate in my contribution that I feel a real struggle here. On the one hand you feel that you want to do something fast and on the other hand it might also be possible to do it quickly; we could also help KLM quickly. I think we should also discipline each other and ourselves to hit the drum much more often and harder for that careful treatment. That is why I asked whether we should not even look closely at all the speed we have had in recent times and by measure: was this really necessary in this case and couldn't it have been otherwise? I am also the last person to say that it may not sometimes be necessary. And then I don't want to get in the way. But when it comes to careful treatment to prevent the execution from going to hell, you will find me at your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-09-tweedekamer-5.u130	Thank you. This brings us to the end of part of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m.
