ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u1	I'm reopening the meeting with the two-minute debate Nature. We have seven two-minute debates consecutively, all of which have been allocated 20 minutes on the plenary agenda. So it's gonna be a real challenge to make that happen. Mr Boswijk asks if he can go first. I'm allowed to do that, and I'm sure the colleagues will. Probably has other obligations. So I call Mr Boswijk, who will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week I said three times: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And everyone present in that debate knew, of course, that I meant this towards the farmers, especially the interim workers and the PAS detectors who are in uncertainty thanks to us as a government. I apologized for that. Only, like almost everything in politics about the agricultural sector, it is framed. So at the end of the day it was: Mr Boswijk apologizes to the whole of the Netherlands that there is an agricultural sector at all. Mr. Chairman. You know that's not true. It has hurt me quite a bit, I must say, but my pain is not proportional to the pain that many farmers have. I've already found that it doesn't make you popular when you're working on the content and when you're looking for compromises and possibilities, but it makes you especially popular when you're scattering with one-liners and especially when you're sowing and polarizing divisions. I've decided not to go along with that. I got the advice this morning: maybe you should be a little less pronounced. But, Mr. Chairman, I'm not gonna talk to flour in my mouth either. I do have some important points that I would like to give to the Minister, because we could not finish the debate last week. These points are very important for the CDA, also for the main letter. First of all, I would like to point out that I said this in the committee debate too, and that we really think of the area process in Liefstingsbroek as an example. Then it is about measuring in the barn, measuring in the nature reserve, measuring in the soil, involving the agricultural sector and the nature sector, which are at the same table. The farmer's position in these processes is always very weak. So I am very curious to see what solutions the Minister sees for that. For the CDA, innovation in the approach is really a prerequisite. It is important that that possibility exists. We just asked questions about the Rav-systematiek. That's very important to the CDA. For the CDA, it is also very important that we should like to give to the Minister that all sectors are proportionate to the bar. So not only in agriculture, but also in mobility and aviation. Last week, fortunately, the Minister showed that aviation has no separate position. We are grateful for that. These are important points for the CDA. We believe it is important that, ultimately, legal certainty and clarity are also provided for the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u3	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg. He will speak on behalf of the Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seemed as if it was about the nitrogen debate, but it is really about the nature debate on 10 February. I'd like to table a motion, but I have a few questions for the Minister first. I have recently been seeing reports from hunters who believe that the count around hares has not been carried out correctly. I see this mainly as reports from the doubt brigade trying to cast doubt on scientific data in the hope of delaying unpleasant decisions in this way. Hunters seem to want to prevent the removal of animals they are so keen to shoot from the list of huntable species. I have a question for the Minister. Does she share my view that there is no reason to doubt those scientific figures? Then I mean the numbers on which rabbit and hare were placed on the red list. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the hood of the Sterrebos in South Limburg. That's what the debate was about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 200-year-old Sterrebos was partially cut;]] [[noting that the hood has been discontinued due to the presence of breeding, protected forest owls;]] [[noting that the presence of the forest owls was not taken into account when granting the exemption;]] [[noting that the trees remain within a radius of 75 metres around the nest, but that this rule applies only to regular maintenance and not to forest cover;]] [[Whereas this may be illegal for the hood of the Sterrebos;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a legal analysis by independent experts on the legality of the hood of the Sterrebos,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this two-minute debate I would also like to talk about nitrogen and its enforcement. Last week there was an article in Follow the Money about an entrepreneur, a pig farmer, with at least five establishments where something was going on with enforcement. It cannot be that nitrogen policy will soon be mopping with the permit valve open. So therefore the question to the Minister about this case: how does the Minister deal with it? In the municipality of Ommen is a large pig company that has not complied with the permit since 2016. The city knows this, but it doesn't do anything about it. There is also a stable built on an environmental zone, groundwater protection area. A permit has still been granted. Then there are air scrubbers on three stables of the Border Farm, which were not carried out as in the permit. There are two stables built without a permit. The licence was obtained in 2013. But the air scrubbers are still out of order. This was already noted in 2016. I also sent the article to the Minister this afternoon. In July 2021, the Council of State had to destroy the nature permit issued to the Beerzerhooiweg for the addition of stables for 3,500 breeding sows to a nature reserve, due to a lack of participation. The Polderhoeve, also nearby, has a long history of violations, especially more pigs than the permit permits, but still gets the necessary permit. In 2020 it is noted that the air washer does not work here. It's not until 2021 that there's a penalty payment. In Coevorden a permit is granted to the Drenthe Hoeve, even if there is a conflict with the zoning plan. This is only one owner, with a lot of branches. The cabinet is now really going to make serious work of the nature crisis and improve nature. According to D66, something really has to happen. Tomorrow there will be municipal elections, hence this input. There will really need to be tighter enforcement and licensing. I wonder what the minister's got in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u6	Thank you. Mrs van der Plas has a question, but we are not going to do another debate. No motion has been tabled. I'll give you one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u7	Perhaps it is a point of order, Mr President, but I do not know. I'll leave that to you. A while ago, two weeks ago, Mr De Groot stood here calling on people to take pictures of yellow fields among farmers and send them to the Ministry. Now I hear Mr De Groot quoting from an article by Follow the Money, in which companies are perhaps called by name and by name. But I find it rather strange that a Member of Parliament here mentions companies with names and names, even with addresses and residences, in a question to the Minister. In fact, I find that unheard of. These companies can't defend themselves here. I don't know what nuance is in those violations. It could be that... but I think it's a very nasty framing again. I just want to speak out against that. We shouldn't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u8	You've made a very clear point. Do you want to respond to that, Mr. De Groot, or do you take note of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u9	I didn't mention any company names. I don't recognize myself in the criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u10	Okay, thank you. I call Mr Van Campen. He will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The nitrogen crisis has actually become a gordian knot that is difficult for a lot of people to understand. We're talking critical deposition value. We're talking hexagons. We are talking about deposition calculators, but actually we just want one thing: to ensure that nature, the protected nature in our country, is in a good condition and that it does not deteriorate. The Minister has a coalition agreement in his hands and will work on it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to give her one more question, because the whole checkability of the nitrogen method is based on nitrogen deposition. But what doesn't come out doesn't strike. So I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at a system, a possibility, which is based on emissions, on checkability, monitoring and enforcement of livestock farms. For example, we no longer find ourselves in the complexity of Rav lists, which are currently under discussion before the courts, and can actually look at what comes out and what does not come out, in order to ensure that nature is not burdened. I'd like a response from the Minister. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the hunting. Mr Wassenberg also spoke about it. Our hunters play an important role in the maintenance and management of wildlife in our nature. That nature needs to be maintained, whether it's flora or fauna. At present there are concerns about not opening the hunting season, on the basis of surveys and wildlife, in relation to conservation obligations in Natura 2000 sites. I would like to ask the Minister if she recognizes the sounds of dated images of it. I hear signals that 1950 is used as a reference point for our nature. I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to actually base her decision-making on scientifically-based information, which is up-to-date and consistent with reality in our protected natural areas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u12	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Wassenberg one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u13	I have one compact question about that. Will Mr Van Campen not be overly guided by the doubt brigade? Because I've looked at all the numbers. Those are all science-based studies. Why again doubt the figures? Then you're gonna let groups drive you around who just don't want the hunting to be restricted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u14	I would like to base my views on the factual data and justification. I have also asked a set of questions about this, together with Mr Bishop. I'm waiting for answers from the Minister. But I would also like to hear the process that she sees in front of her in order to ensure that both Mr Wassenberg and I are convinced that the Minister bases its decisions on genuinely scientifically-based information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u15	Thank you. I call Mr Bishop. He will speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several parties carry out wild species censuses, but insufficient coordination and standardisation is taking place;]] [[Whereas thermal imaging indicates that some wild species have become more active during the night hours and that daytime counts are therefore insufficient for a good estimate of wildlife;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the use of census data from all parties having functions in the field of monitoring, alignment of counting protocols and the involvement of the mentioned results of thermal imaging in studies on the state of conservation of wild species, in the policy response to them and in the evaluation of counting protocols,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-262]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u17	Mr. Chairman. I have the same question here, too. Those figures were looked at by the Zoogdiersvereniging, CBS and university scientists. Why cast doubt on that data again? Is that because some hunters say: we do see a number of rabbits or hares in our garden, so let's just shoot them off? You have to rely on the data and not ask questions all the time about the reliability of the data, if they are already known?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u18	I think the wording of "count again to blow them off" is a little tendentious. No, those hunters do game management. I really do not understand in peace why Mr Wassenberg has so much objection to objectifying and standardising censuses. That's the basis of good policy, isn't it? Mr Wassenberg is free to be fatal against the hunt. Sure, you can. No one's making a big deal about that. But then find the connection. If we can find each other in a good counting system and make sure that there is no doubt about it, then we can take next steps and then we can manage wisely. I really don't know what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u19	Thank you. I don't want to repeat debates. I think one question on a motion is appropriate for a two-minute debate. Finally, Mrs van der Plas has the floor. She speaks for BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am delighted that Mr Van Campen has also mentioned in one of the last debates that it is so important to know exactly what is happening in the soil. Do we even know that? Then what's in that bottom? How much nitrogen is that? I drew Mr Van Campen's attention to an earlier motion that I had tabled on this subject, which dealt precisely with it. So it seems good to me, now that I really find the VVD on my side, to re-table that motion, which has been slightly modified, because it is certainly important. If Mr Van Campen wishes to co-sign the motion, he is of course free to do so. I'll give him a moment to consider that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no structural approach to the collection and recording of soil samples targeting nitrogen in nature reserves;]] [[Whereas good monitoring is important in order to identify and achieve policy objectives;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to introduce a database monitoring system for soil samples in nature areas, at least in a structural manner recording the amount of nitrogen in soil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-263]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u21	That motion has been changed a great deal, because in your earlier motion you asked for an ecological authority. That is what has been achieved in the coalition agreement and the Minister is going to work on it. If Mrs van der Plas retables this motion, I shall look at it very constructively. Is she willing to do that? 'Cause this is definitely a different story. Mrs van der Plas is already providing the environmental authority, and I would like to give the Minister the room to do so. Is she willing to fall back on the original motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u22	I don't have time to retable the original motion. This motion is important to us, because such a database is not yet available. I hear there is a call here that there is, but I would like to leave it to the Minister to appreciate it. We have so many nitrogen debates, I tell Mr. Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u23	We're all gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u24	Then we are going to sit down for that, because I have a whole bunch of motions that still have to be tabled, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u25	We're not voting until next week, so you can also change your motions. Actually, I only allow one question, so very briefly, Mr. Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u26	Well, it is more of a point of order, because I believe that motions for resolutions can be amended until the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u27	Of course. But Mrs. Van der Plas knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u28	Do you know the National Database Flora and Fauna?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u29	Yeah, I know him. By the way, it is not accessible to many people. It is good that you say it, because I have motions on this too, to make it accessible to everyone in the Netherlands. It is good that Mr De Groot reminds me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u30	Thank you very much. The Minister has requested a ten-minute suspension. We will, so at 5:10 p.m. we will continue this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u31	Three motions have been tabled, on which we would like to hear the opinion of the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen, and a number of further questions have been asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u32	Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to start with the questions. Well, I guess I'm just gonna go down the line. The first question was from the CDA, about some of the emphasis on the debate we had last week on nitrogen. Where I said during the debate: I am listening very carefully to take the accents with me towards the main letter, knowing that I am also going to debate the main letter with your Chamber in detail, out of my head on 6 April, and that your Chamber also has every opportunity to take accents. Then there is the question of the numbers. They confirm that I have no reason to doubt the numbers on the wild list. The state of conservation of the species on the wild list was commissioned by the Ministry of LNV by Sovon and WNR on the basis of best available scientific insights and internationally established methodologies. The data files used have been validated by the Central Bureau of Statistics. These figures reflect a long-term trend and are therefore reliable. But there is discussion about taking the figures from the numbers of fauna management units to determine the population trend. This has been discussed, but these figures have not been taken into account so far because the CBS has previously considered that the current methodology of the game management units is unusable to determine reliable trends. Because I think it is desirable that these counts should also be used as additional information in the future, I would like to work with all the parties concerned in the near future to improve the counting protocol and also the collection of data. Let me turn to Mr De Groot's article. It's a little complicated to go into an article I haven't read myself. So that's what I want to start with. In general, enforcement is extremely important. The cabinet's on that, too. I cannot comment on an article that I have not read or on individual cases. However, as we discussed in the debate last week, enforcement is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u33	That leads to a brief question from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u34	Nor was it my expectation that the Minister would really go into these cases; just, I give it as examples. If this is symptomatic of the way it is maintained in the Netherlands, then we have a great challenge. The question to the Minister is how she sees it. Is she going to consider it important, other than enforcement, to really focus on what she's going to do with that licensing system?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u35	As I pointed out in the debate, and before, I come forward with an approach to licensing before the summer. That is also with regard to latent space, precisely because of the principle of mopping with the crane open, namely allowing things, whether through enforcement or through licensing, with which we actually add nitrogen and not restore nature. In fact, it's getting worse. That's what we call mopping with the tap open. I don't want to. That's why I'm coming to your room before the summer with an approach. This will be part of that, too. Then the question of the VVD how the Minister looks at the issue of licensing and to base it on emission rather than deposition. I totally agree that what is not being ejected does not strike down either. That is a fairly simple line, which I can endorse. Emission measurement and emission reduction certainly have added value, but measurement at company level is part of the National Knowledge Programme Nitrogen, as I mentioned earlier. This is also one of those points which is taken into account in the main letter to the debate on 6 April. In the end, it's all about the effects on nature. That goes through deposition, so it needs to be involved in licensing. But again, here again I look at the outline letter. The last question was also from Mr Van Campen. I hope I can refer to the answer I gave to Mr Wassenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u36	Then we'll get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u37	The motions, exactly. The motion in part No. 261 on the Sterrebos is, as far as I'm concerned, Chamber of Judgement. I would add that I am happy to stick to the division of jurisdiction between the province and the Empire. That is why I propose that I read the motion in such a way that I have a general legal analysis of the requirements we impose on the inventory in order to avoid a significant risk of breach of the law. Then the analysis not only focuses on this case, but is extended. If you agree, the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u38	Do you agree, Mr. Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u39	Then the Sterebos is the cause. I'm okay with the Minister pulling it wider, so agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u40	The motion in part No. 261: Judgment Chamber, with the explanation that has just been given. Then the motion to part No. 262.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u41	Yeah, the motion to part No. 262 already based on validated and standardised data. I'd love to have a conversation with the parties to make sure that all the counting data can be used. That is just what I indicated in my answer to the questions on this subject. It is then necessary to improve and standardise the counting method. That's why I advise you to hold this motion now. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u42	Mr. Bishop, what are you doing with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u43	Perhaps the Minister could consider that this is support for the planned policy. I was just surprised by the answer to the question, because in fact that is the argument of this motion. We must standardise the protocols and standardise the methods. It's gonna take some time. This is then used for the formulation of policies. I would therefore say that the Minister can even take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u44	No. That's nice, but I'd say it's already been validated. The motion suggests that it is not, but the figures we work with have already been validated, including with regard to the data files. I have also indicated that I would like to engage with parties to ensure that all counting data can be used. For that it is indeed necessary to improve this, but we really are not there yet. That's why I'm asking you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u45	Mr Bishop can do that. Otherwise, the motion will be dissuaded. We're going to the motion in part no. 263.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u46	That's the motion on the monitoring system and the database. At the moment it is not necessary to monitor all places in the soil, because we mainly read the state of nature to the plants. I'd like to find out if a soil measurement network has added value. I therefore request that the motion be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u47	Mrs. Van der Plas, would you hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u48	I'm gonna talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u49	If the motion isn't stopped, will it be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u51	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-tweedekamer-32.u52	We'll be voting on the motions next Tuesday.
