ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will now begin the debate on the extraction of gas in Groningen. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy with the Mining portfolio. I also welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Thirteen spokesmen have come forward. I would like to meet with Members four interruptions to each other and six to the rulers. An interruption is a short question or remark without a very comprehensive introduction. We are going to start and then I will be the first to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	"They just don't care at all in The Hague. They just shit on Groningen," said Hans Latour from Zeerrijp. And what would you say in his situation? Under his house quake after shaking, but after years of waiting he doesn't know whether his house is safe or not. That's what tens of thousands of Groningers are going through. Humiliated, crushed by the state. While you were beaming on the platform, tens of thousands of us, often in vain, were waiting in line for compensation. The cabinet announced that it would pay an additional 250 million. Then it became deafeningly silent. It's easy to fix, but it's not gonna happen. And that symbolizes the whole approach. Time and time again, deep misery is caused. Then it's called out that it's really getting better now. Cameras gone, you keep people waiting again. Now what? Only once before did Prime Minister Rutte hold a debate on Groningen. In June 2019 there were three excuses: sorry, sorry, sorry. Excuse 1. You said about gas extraction: safety hasn't been paramount for years. What good is that excuse? You may double the gas extraction, while the number of tremors increases. Again, you're not putting our safety first. And then today the Christian coalition parties come up with a bummer: more money for damage and strengthen with extra extraction, money that you have promised us for years but do not give us. And we have to sacrifice our safety for that? Cynic populism! We propose that you keep your word. We have tabled an amendment to stop the extraction of gas by 1 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	I find these words that Mrs Beckerman of the SP chooses cynical, because if you had listened carefully, you might hear my speech later, but you have already finished your judgment, so you could have heard that we simply want this gas extraction to go straight back to the level that had been agreed. What if that doesn't work? Because Mrs Beckerman can't build that nitrogen plant any faster than quickly. That doesn't work either. Then that money has to go towards Groningen, right? But she doesn't want to. Is that really what she wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mrs Agnes Mulder, we here as a Chamber can decide to put security first. You have promised this for years. We can decide that. That is why I tabled an amendment together with colleagues from the Animal Party, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. Let's put that safety first. Please support our amendment. For years, years, the safety of the Groningen people has not been paramount. We can no longer be co-responsible for this. Support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	I don't know how that works on paper. Let's say you support this amendment, but then there's not a day before that nitrogen plant. Can Mrs. Beckerman explain to me how she sees that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	It might also be good to recall that the Council of State, the highest judge in this country, has repeatedly destroyed the gas decision, precisely because of what Mrs Mulder is doing here: security of supply is seen as more important than our security. It is true that we cannot speed up the arrival of that nitrogen plant. Do you know why that is? You know exactly why that is, because we have been waiting for years to build that nitrogen plant. There are other possibilities. There's a shutdown plan. You know that. It is a political choice, and we dare to make it: security first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	Now it is getting very cynical, because I was the author of the motion to build that nitrogen factory earlier. He didn't get a majority at the time. And now Mrs Beckerman is going to blame me for not wanting that nitrogen factory sooner. It's got to be a little neat, too, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	We supported that motion. We have supported all these motions. But the bizarre thing is, and I think Mr Mulder knows perfectly well, that we are now saying: we are going to increase extraction, and then we are going to spend the money on damage and strengthening. We hear that promise here year by year, year by year, and it is broken over and over again. It's bizarre!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mrs. Agnes Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm being addressed, Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Beckerman might not want to understand. Let me be very clear, because then Mrs Beckerman will hear it directly from me. We want this gas extraction back at the level envisaged for this year. That's what we want. But what if that doesn't work, for example because of the nitrogen factory? In fact, I wanted to do so myself. I have also tabled a motion for this in the past. Neither does Mrs Beckerman. But if money does come in, so to speak, then we do not give it to the Groningers. That's how Mrs. Beckerman looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	More than 400 billion has been made by the State in gas extraction, more than 400 billion. Again, over 400 billion. In the coalition agreement, there is not a penny extra reserved for Groningen. Earn 400 billion, not a penny extra reserved. There will only be extra money if that gas extraction is increased. It's just what you want to stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	There is another interruption by Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	This is my first debate on Groningen as a Groningen spokesperson. It is the first time that I have faced Mrs Beckerman, but I think it is a really bad start. It is an extremely painful episode, in a very sensitive area, about which people are rightly very angry. If motives are then attributed as "cynism" and "a indulgence," then you do us no justice. You may disagree with a position or with a choice. I'm fine with that. But I find our motives to be cynical, which we don't have. But I still have a simple, concrete question. We want, I want, that gas extraction not to go up. It shouldn't go up. We have said that it has to go to zero, so the phasing-out path has to go down and not up. That's the bet. Suppose there's no other way than to win, something we don't want. Then my simple question is: do these extra revenues have to go to the state treasury or to Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	Then it's the question... No, let's start at the beginning. Until now, the mining decision has always been destroyed by the highest court, precisely at this point, namely that the security of supply was seen by the cabinet as more important than our security. So the question is whether the Supreme Court is going to approve this at all. The second point is that the regulator, SodM, has already said that higher gas extraction is dangerous. "Don't," they say. If you say "do" then the money has to go to Groningen. Yeah, we need extra money to go to Groningen. Absolutely, absolutely! But if you want to stop that money now in damage recovery and reinforcement, that is what you say to the NOS, but perhaps you want to correct it when it has been said to Groningen for years that there is enough money for that, but it does not come, I do call it cynical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	I am fine with being attacked, but on positions I have and not on positions I do not have. I don't want a higher winning, I want a lower winning. Period. If there is no other option but to win an extra prize, I do not want to; I do hope that security will be the key, that we can get out of it and that the contract can be adjusted......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the simple contradiction I have. I would very much like a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	So in this reasoning, you assume that this higher extraction is necessary, while we have also made a switch-off plan, so that we can say to the industry in times of scarcity: really very tedious, but temporarily use less or nothing. That is what we have for example for water and for electricity. There are possibilities. The highest judge has patted you over and over again. The supervisor's gonna tap your fingers. Of course there must be extra money for Groningen, as has been promised for years, but that must not be at the expense of our security again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	It's nice if you can talk through the chairman, Mrs. Beckerman. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mrs Beckerman refuses to answer my very simple question. Suppose there's extra revenue, do they have to go to the state treasury or to Groningen? The CDA and Christian Union have proposed to give that to Groningen. If Mrs Beckerman does not agree with that, then I have to say that she says it should go to the state treasury. If that's the choice, it's not my choice, but it's the one from the SP. If that's not the case, then we agree. That's a profit for Groningen. Then, until then, we must do everything possible to get out of it, with the possible opening of the contract, with possible other agreements with large consumers, and possibly with Germany. But if there's gonna be extra money, it's gonna have to go back to where it belongs. That is our position. If Mrs Beckerman does not agree, then we have a very sad conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	Do you really call this profit for Groningen, as I say through the chairman? And isn't it cynical that security isn't paramount? It would be a profit for Groningen if we got extra money, according to Mr Segers. Why don't we keep our word anyway and make sure the promised money goes to Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	On the one hand, of course, you have the safety of the Groningers, because of those seismic activities. On the other hand, you have production security of clean gas for decades to come, with hundreds of billions in revenue. I have always heard Mrs Beckerman as a great advocate of the interests of the Groningen people. As BVNL, we stand for that. Suppose there is a technically solid solution, for example by water injection or CO injection, which keeps the pressure in the field, completely averts the danger to the Groningers and we can continue to produce, agreeing that a large part of the yield flows back to the Groningers. So there's no more danger. Could Mrs Beckerman say: in that case I stand before the Groningen people; I agree with Mr Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	Of course, it would be fantastic if that extraction could be safe. Nitrogen and water injection have often been mentioned as an option, but experts have also repeatedly said: do not do so. On Sunday, the SodM spoke very clearly, clasp-and-ready, that there are dangers if you double the gas extraction again. At the moment we are listening to the experts who say: safe extraction cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	So far, we've always won without keeping up the pressure in the field. That's almost criminal. We have gone from a huge pressure to a very low pressure; I believe it is now 70 bar. My proposal would be to at least investigate what is happening if we now keep the field on this pressure by water injection, because that has not yet been looked at at at all. Then there could be another situation. I understand that the experts say all kinds of things and that continuing production, especially at 2013 level at 55 billion cubic metres a year, is total madness. But suppose we just implement another scenario, with water injection, CO injection or nitrogen injection; I don't care. Then the pressure stays at 70 bar and we can produce safely. If that's 100% safe, is that an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	I think I just answered that. That's an option, but there's no study that shows that. That has been asked many times in the Chamber. This debate has been going on for ten years or more. It has always been said: this has never been tried at such a large gas field. In small fields it has been tried, but it has not always succeeded. As long as the experts just say to us "don't, don't, don't," I think we should put safety first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	Then came the Prime Minister's apology two. Apologies for the fact that, in your words, it has been completely underestimated what huge task was here for damage recovery and reinforcement. What good was that excuse? More than two and a half years later, many Groningers still don't know what they're up to. Monday evening we received a letter from the cabinet with the same kind of words as in 2019. What makes it okay this time? You don't change anything about the cause that keeps causing it to go wrong. The inequality is only increasing. Foundations. Restoration of foundations still doesn't happen. People have to wait and go to court unless the city raises money. Damage. People get letters that they have to wait 15 months for damages to be dealt with, and when 15 months are almost over, they get another letter: another 15 months. In some areas damage is no longer compensated at all, such as at the gas deposits at Gijpskerk and Norg. Backup. One block in the street gets a new home, while residents of the same type of house don't hear anything on the same street. Compensation. One resident with damage is eligible for compensation such as the €10,000 scheme, but not the other. All kinds of amounts you have promised but not paid out, such as the 25 million for people who have been compensated by the NAM. What are you going to do for all these people? Finally, excuse 3 from the Prime Minister. In dealing with the damage, too much emphasis has been placed on legal certainty in recent years. What good did this excuse do us? More than two and a half years later, it is precisely that legal certainty that causes damage handling and reinforcement to go badly. A record is given to the country's attorney, while without support, the injured must fight an unequal legal battle. It's like standing in front of a group of hungry wolves with a straw. Shell wants to get rid of the liability now. They acknowledge that the damage handling and reinforcement are also slow due to their attitude. But instead of just paying to make it quick, they want to get rid of their responsibility and start a legal battle. Heartless! Cabinet, make sure that Shell and Exxon pay their fair share to the last penny and that those who are hurt finally no longer suffer from it. Finally. I'm proud to be Groninger, but it's scandalous that we still have to stand here after all these years. Groningers don't want "sorry, sorry, sorry." We want action. We want respect for Groningen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. There is another interruption by Mr Boulakjar of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you to Mrs Beckerman for her contribution. I know Mrs. Beckerman as someone with passion and emotion in this file. She deserves compliments for that, too. I'm new to this file. I still have to earn my spurs. Last week I sat with Mrs Beckerman in a technical briefing with the National Ombudsman. There she asked a very fair question, which I also have. She asked: what should happen from tomorrow to help Groningers? I would also like to put that question to Mrs Beckerman here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	After all these years, there are no magic words that solve everything. What's to be done? First of all, this gas extraction will have to go to zero by 1 October. Then there must be one plan for every resident, for every household. We need to stop that bureaucratic swamp where people are drowning now. There must be one plan for every household, for every house, but also for every neighborhood, for every neighborhood, for every village and for the whole area. We should no longer rely on this mistrust, which means that every last penny must be looked at whether the money is being spent correctly, but we should simply ensure that people get what they are entitled to. Even then, this will take a very long time, because people are sick. They've been made sick by the way the government deals with them. But I think trust in the Groningen people is the only way we can start a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'm starting my speech a little different than I planned yesterday. I live in Groningen and I'm from Ten Boer. Many of you know that, too. I actually want to go back to Groningen country with my husband. You've got those great views over there. It is the soul of Groningen: the landscape. So I'm also in the earthquake area occasionally looking at a house, just like I did last Friday. We looked at a beautiful house that we're really interested in. Then, of course, you'll request those earthquake reports. I received the damage report an hour before this debate. That report has 268 pages. There are 39 claims, in 2012 was the first NAM notification and in 2016 was the second NAM notification. There is one acute unsafe situation, a number of erratic cracks and defects that have been repeatedly damaged. So that's the damage report. I still have to get the message about the reinforcements, because that's another route. So this was the last year's report to the IMG. The question we must now ask ourselves, of course, is whether we dare to get caught up in it. I'm not that scared. I am not very handy either, which is quite clumsy in this respect. So I'm quite daring, but do we really want to get caught up in this? A few things weren't recognized either. Are we ready for that? And do we still want to do that reinforcement you don't know if it's necessary? And regardless of whether we're gonna do it, the people who live there now or who're gonna live there are in the same shit. I think the core of the problem is that damage and reinforcement are still not in one hand. I think that was a mistake in the law, too. That is why we voted against the Groningen Act. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? How's he gonna fix that? I've only got half now. I've got the damage report, but no word on the backup yet. It's also completely separate from each other. So those are my first two questions to the Secretary of State. We have also discussed my next question before. Of course, we've seen those embarrassing rows. There is an extra budget for this, but I do not think that will solve the problem. Because the old contours are back. Whoever followed the earthquake discussions from the beginning knows that there were contour lines to where the earthquakes would run first. That was totally ridiculous. It didn't turn out to be sustainable either. But that applies now to a lot of regulations. For the sustainability scheme, there are other contours than for the valuation scheme. And for this €25,000 scheme there are also other contours. And that also applies to the €30,000 compensation that people can get in the reinforcement operation. On one side of the street they already have it in Tuikwerd and not on the other side. How the hell are you gonna do that? How can that be explained? I'm asking the Secretary of State to go out with the people. If the neighbor and the neighbor get something in exactly the same situation and you don't, with sometimes more serious damage, then that's impossible to explain and split up those villages. In the Ommelanderstraat there are four blocks. We've been there as a commission. They are completely demolished and replaced by new buildings. On the other side of the street are four same blocks. Exactly the same year of construction and exactly the same builder. Nothing's gonna happen to that. How does the Secretary of State explain that? I'll be brief about the gas extraction. We shouldn't do that again. If Germany does not sustain enough, uses too much and uses too little wind, I don't understand why the Netherlands should cough that up. Is there not a variant in which a number of Dutch companies will be switched off for a number of months if necessary? At the greenhouse horticulture we also saw that less gas was used. That was because of the price, but the safety of Groningen is also an argument, I would say. Finally, Mr President. The NAM wants to buy everything off. I understand that they want to get rid of it, but I do not think we should reward that behaviour of the NAM as a parliament. So I say to the Secretary of State, "Don't do it." It could cause damage for decades to come. They're liable. They didn't live up to their liability. That's why the government took over all the damage. Don't reward that behavior and, as far as I'm concerned, just introduce a tax on oil, because there's just no getting started with those guys. Then we'll just enforce it with a tax. Then we're done with the whining, too. But it's getting higher than what they're paying right now. I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	We agree that the NAM should simply compensate for the damage. There's no discussion about that. What we are discussing is this. The Institute for Mining Damage has indicated that there is an enormous need for acceleration in the area. Mr Nijboer also refers to this himself. There's that need. It's not the first one to say this. This institute has indicated that such a construction, whereby you talk to each other to see if you can arrange it at once, can provide a huge acceleration. Why is Mr Nijboer not open to that conversation at all? It's not just a question of behavior, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	I am not open to a conversation with Shell and Exxon, whose agenda is crawling as much as possible under their responsibility. That's what they do. That's what they did in hearings. They even said, no, we don't judge at all, why do you say that? Well, if you read the letter from the State Secretary, you know that, too, then you see that they refuse to pay the bills. They're questioning everything. They want to have the whole and love each individual home in Groningen to build their own legal position. I'm not part of that. So I'm also saying don't cooperate with that. If necessary, introduce a tax on the oil companies in the Netherlands, as we did in the banking crisis with the banks. Make that charge so high, they'll take it down a notch. I think it is simply rewarding for extremely bad and reprehensible behaviour if we, as a parliament, were to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	In doing so, we are abstaining from the Groningers the possibility of an option for acceleration, which has been appointed as such by the Institute for Mining Damage. There aren't the first to be there either. They have said: at least look at the advantages and disadvantages of such a solution. Then we are going to look very critically here in the Chamber and the cabinet is not allowed to take a step in the meantime? What's wrong with at least investigating that? Shouldn't we be guarding against cynicism?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	I don't understand that last question at all. I've been trying very seriously to do the best for Groningen for many years. I don't recognize any cynicism in that. But with regard to the NAM: we were promised that the NAM is completely out. We have the law; they have nothing to do with it anymore. But what do you see? Through the back door they continue to influence. That's what we warned you about. Of course it is now. In such an arbitration case, if you request all those files, and if you question everything, the Institute of Mining Damage feels less free to do so. What's that all about? Not because we have to settle with the NAM, but because they have in their definition the settlement of damages and the liability of the NAM. We must define this much more broadly in the law. There have also been amendments to this effect, which have not been adopted by the VVD. That would have helped a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you. Mr Boulakjar, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	Compliment for Mr Nijboer for his commitment to this dossier. I would like to go further on the point made by Mr Van Wijngaarden, because I feel the irritation towards Mr Nam's Nijboer. Yeah, I got it, too. I also have huge doubts about a possible buy-back. In addition to the IMG, the National Ombudsman also says that this is someone we all respect and that any buy-back could lead to worsening for people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	So I don't believe in that. I don't believe you should reward such companies with a one-off buy-back. I thought the agreement was horrible in general terms; you know that. The distribution of costs and benefits that Shell and Exxon have benefited so much from went more to the government. Let us make laws that are better, namely damage and reinforcement in one hand. So let the Institute not only compensate for the damage caused by private law, but let it deal with it from a village and district renewal perspective as Shaeffer did at the time, and as Eberhard van der Laan did. I think it is a popular housing task, much more than it is a question of safety standards with a tip above it or below it on the basis of models. In my opinion, that is much more the basis of the misery in Groningen than the attitude of the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	Towards the NAM, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr. Chairman. "A tear in my house, a tear in my soul, a tear in my community." Those words during a visit to Opwierde stay with me, a village where the inhabitants are distraught by the total randomness. In one street all houses are demolished, in the other street residents have to fight for equal treatment. Randomness, slow handling, poachy bureaucracy, uncertainty and a sense of insecurity: all this contributes to the crumbling trust in the government. "The government is deeply distrusted here, bordering on hatred." That's how a resident from Overschild puts it. He lives in the outskirts, and where in the middle of the village the first houses are safe again, he has no idea how to proceed. The Ombudsman strongly judges the failure of the government. People are completely shattered by the bureaucracy they run into in dealing with the damage, as my colleagues from the SP and the PvdA have just outlined. With the main recommendation: the perspective of the residents should be central. A duped should not have to worry about how exactly the organisation of damage handling and reinforcement is put together. A disabled person wants one point of contact, one point of contact that will help him or her further throughout the mess of regulations that is unfortunately there. The Ministry takes a step, we read in the letter, but I very much like to hear from the Secretary of State what this is going to mean for people. Does it mean, for example, that people with little damage are given more direction over the approach? When will anyone who is entitled to it actually receive the subsidy that they have been in the cold for a long time now? Then, Chairman, Shell's proposal to buy off all the damage at once. That is also unacceptable as far as GroenLinks is concerned and shows how Shell and Exxon look at the problem. They want to get rid of it as soon as possible, but the people in Groningen are still far from getting rid of it. Not for decades, that's how it lets State surveillance of the mines know. There may still be decades of tremors, and Shell and Exxon must be held responsible for this. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he shares this view. Then there's the speculation about extra winning. I think we all know how much unrest that has caused in Groningen and how this further undermines confidence. We can't just turn the gas valve open in case of a setback and assume that Groningen will solve it for us. The mentality of Groningen taking the pain can't go on. The Secretary of State states in his letter that there is no gas crisis now, but if gas extraction in Groningen is to go up, then there is a gas crisis in GroenLinks. That's a gas crisis. So what concrete steps will be taken to prevent further extraction from being deemed necessary? Five companies do not appear to comply with the legal ban on the use of low-caloric gas on 1 October. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? And then there's the foreign contracts. My colleague Van Tongeren made this point in 2015. What has been done in concrete terms since then to get rid of these contracts? Is it true that new contracts have been concluded since then? How's that? What about converting the switch-off plan, which is now a theoretical list, into very concrete action? Step 1 of the switch-off plan is a call for a reduction in natural gas consumption. How's that going? What about the possibilities of allowing large users to temporarily use less? We find it difficult to justify the use of a great deal of gas in the export-oriented fertilizer sector, for example, whereas the extraction of gas in Groningen would have to be increased. Can the Secretary of State promise that there will be a concrete plan soon? Mr. Chairman. In order to restore confidence, the thunder cloud above Groningen must remove the threat of additional extraction. That is what I expect as a result of this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I call Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mr. Chairman. After studying in Delft, I drilled for ten years for oil and gas. At the NAM in Groningen, in the jungle in Gabon, offshore in Scotland in the Brentveld and finally in the desert of Oman. And yes, I've read the Watch. Mr. Chairman. The government made two big mistakes. Firstly, the Groningen people have been treated in an outrageous manner. The arrogance and laxity with which the reinforcement operation and the compensation have been dealt with are absolutely worthy of a motion of censure. Secondly, the decision to stop production from the Groningenveld was taken out of political opportunism by bureaucrats who do not know the difference between an algorithm and a logarithm. Mr. Chairman. The first argument to continue producing is the financial argument. The Groningen field once contained 2,740 billion cuub and if we stop producing, 600 billion cuub remains behind. With a gas price of 60 cents, it is EUR 360 billion, which can reach a trillion, EUR 1,000 billion. Can the Minister confirm these figures? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the technical argument. In 2013, no less than 54 billion cubic tons of gas were extracted. With such high depletion, the risk of seismic activity is much greater. The pressure in the field has fallen over the years from 347 bar in 1963 to about 70 bar at the moment, resulting in the sound of the sandstone. Does the Prime Minister agree with BVNL that if we maintain pressure in the field by means of water injection or CO injection, which combine with a low level of production and spread production across different locations, the seismic activity is almost zero? Then there's the environmental argument. Even the EU has raised methane to green fuel. Mr. Chairman. Then there is security of supply and geopolitical dependence. It is really shocking what risks this cabinet is taking with our energy supply. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that our energy supply will not be compromised? Mr. Chairman. BVNL's proposal is to immediately compensate the Groningers generously from the natural gas benefits for the scandalous way in which they have been treated. Then we continue on a low and responsible level with the gas production from the Groningenveld, maintaining the pressure in the field. BVNL proposes a win-win solution and the choice of this cabinet only has losers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. Once upon a time there was a King's Commissioner who, during negotiations on money for the region, said that he did not need anything from the Province Fund as long as Groningen got the natural gas benefits. It was then Commissioner of the Queen in Groningen Henk Vonhoff who said this to then Minister of Finance Onno Ruding. Vonhoff was well aware of the economic importance of the Groningenveld for the prosperity in the Netherlands after the war. Our roads, schools, dikes and welfare state: without the gas, the Netherlands would not have become what it has become. So the Netherlands has had a lot of use for Groningen, but this debate is about what Groningen has to do with us. Let there be no misunderstanding about the following. For the VVD fraction: the sooner the wells in the Groningenveld can be discharged with concrete, the better. It's done. Does the Cabinet confirm that it shares that ambition? As far as the VVD is concerned, it is time to stop energy in Groningen instead of extracting energy from it. The quake area hides much misery and is far from it. But let's also try to see the beauty of the landscape and the well-preserved churches in this area. Improving the tourist infrastructure and maintaining the Groningen heritage deserve a place in the future agenda of Groningen. Is this how the Cabinet sees it? Let us also try to continue to see the economic potential of Groningen. Groningen doesn't need that gas at all. Groningen has the potential to become, so to speak, the Eindhoven of the North Netherlands. The region is bursting with ambition, but we must not allow ourselves to go to Groningen with our backs from the Randstad, but face to face. In the Groningen National Programme, 1.1 billion extra is already available. In this context, can the cabinet discuss with Groningen a better connection to the seaports by, for example, helping to double the N33? Although the Portnota designates the Eemshaven and the port of Delfzijl as priority ports of national interest, these are the only ports of national interest not unlocked by a four-lane road. The question is also what opportunities the growth potential of Eelde Airport offers for the region. Is that region also on the agenda as far as the cabinet is concerned? Is the cabinet prepared to discuss this with the region? Mr. Chairman. I have the following questions. Can the cabinet confirm that it will make every effort before 1 April to prevent additional extraction and that any additional extraction for Germany will not take place if, according to the State surveillance of the Mines, it is not safe to do so? Then there is an agreement and a gas infrastructure with Germany, but why would the Netherlands be bound by foreign contractual obligations if, according to the State's supervision of the Mines, its fulfilment would be irresponsible in terms of security? Germany does not go above Groningen either. With regard to the damage, I ask the cabinet whether the restoration of manure cellars in farmers in the quake area can also be compensated and not only the so-called consequential damage. The IMG and the NAM think that a total solution can speed up the resolution of damages. Is the Cabinet prepared to identify the advantages of such a solution and share them with the Chamber before taking any steps? Then the backup. Mkb'ers have to wait too long...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	There is an interruption by Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party and then by Mrs Kröger of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	Does Mr van Wijngaarden consider himself well quoted in today's Newspaper of the North? In that he says that the extra mining which the cabinet is now referring to is only negotiable for his party if the State surveillance of the Mines guarantees that this can be done without increasing the unrest in the Groningen soil. If not, it will end from 2023, as promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	Let me be more specific about that. Thanks for the question. I think it's important that security be paramount. That's one. I think we all share that. Two. How do you define safety? This means that any additional extraction must fall within the safety margins applied by the State to the Mines. If that is not the case, then we cannot discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	That's a detour to say it's obviously not properly represented. It says here that it is only negotiable for his party if the State surveillance of the Mines guarantees that it can be done without increasing the unrest in the Groninger soil. So there's nothing about the values in which that has to happen, but just: don't do it if you can't guarantee that the unrest in the soil doesn't increase. That is what Mr Van Wijngaarden, the VVD, said. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, look. We don't have to do a whole text-exegesis of an article in the Dagblad van het Noorden. What matters is that the devil is in the details "Safe" is what you mean by safe and not safe. We have a serious organization for this: State surveillance of the Mines. That's a legal task. If they say that it falls within the safety standards they apply and that it can therefore be safe, then the conditions I mention in that article are fulfilled. Mind you, they haven't said it's safe. That's still to be seen. I have a few points to make on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	I am happy to devote my interruptions to this, because Mr Van Wijngaarden says: let us not be too precise. Well, let's be! Right now, just today, right in this debate. The VVD says here: if the SodM says it can't be safe, then we shouldn't do it. That's what they said. Not yet officially, but for the time being they have said: it has risks. So that safety is not guaranteed. Let me ask you a different question. Does Mr Van Wijngaarden say, therefore, that the VVD says here: as it stands today, with the knowledge of today, we still have to wait and see the report. This additional extraction cannot take place, because security is not guaranteed, and I am faithful to my word?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	Well, I guess there's actually very little light between how we're both in there. I was just asking if the cabinet could confirm that additional mining for Germany will not take place if the State's supervision of the Mines is not safe. I just asked. I think we share that question with the cabinet. I think that the cabinet should do everything in its power to prevent... That mining decision has not yet been taken, and I hope that this decision will not be taken until the additional extraction decision has been taken. It is not yet April and I believe that the cabinet should do everything it can between now and April to avoid the need for this additional extraction. The honourable Member is right: State supervision of the Mines has, of course, already said something about this, but not yet officially. But they have said: it would be really unwise if I were to quote them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr Van Wijngaarden quotes, as far as I know, 'it would be very unwise'. But the point is really in the care of the words. Now Mr Van Wijngaarden makes it: 'if it can be safe'. The Nieuwsblad van het Noorden wrote: "it must be guaranteed." I think that's two different things. Is there any way that he can shed some light on that so that the people in the country know where they stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	I believe that the cabinet, in particular the Secretary of State, supported by the State's supervision of the Mines, the authority that we have for this, should guarantee that it would fit within the safety margins used by the State's supervision if additional winnings were to be made. I hope I've answered it exactly enough. At least I did my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	We're going to see if Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks takes over the stick again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	Just on another point, namely the words "everything at all." Mr Van Wijngaarden is referring in particular to the contract with Germany. Everyone is looking at that with a lot of interest, but of course there is also a chance in the switch-off plan. There is a possibility of saying: we are going to use less gas in the Netherlands and we are going to ask certain sectors to use less gas. Is that about the VVD part of "everything at all"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	I'm thinking two things about that. If it can't be safe, then of course those kinds of scenarios come up, but you have to look at this step by step. And I think putting everything on everything also involves looking at all possible alternatives. Gas can be imported, we all know. That's also something the cabinet should look at. I think we should challenge the cabinet in every possible way. The idea was the trend down and not up. That's what we're running into right now. I think we should challenge the cabinet to do everything in its power to bring that trend down in a reasonable way before any decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	Apart from security, the broken promises and what it does with the people's confidence in Groningen are terrible. As far as we're concerned, "everything at all" is that we just don't do it. Anyway, I hear Mr Van Wijngaarden say: everything. I would like to hear him explicitly say that 'everything at all' also means the following. Before there is another decision on an increase in gas extraction, it will also be on the table that Dutch sectors such as the fertilizer sector for export, where a lot of gas is actually used, will temporarily use less gas. That is part of the "cost what it costs" and "everything at all" of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mrs Kröger immediately fills in 'everything at all' in a very specific way, in relation to the manure sector, I understand. I haven't gotten there yet. I say to the cabinet: just examine all the possibilities, including the conversation with Germany. That's what I just said: Germany doesn't go above Groningen. I understand that they are connected to the gas infrastructure, but I do think there should be an intrusive conversation there. I think you should look at import opportunities, because Mrs Kröger is indeed right: the expectation we raised at Groningers and also at the rest of the Netherlands is that the trend would be down and not up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, and then to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	In the past, Mr Van Wijngaarden and I were part of the same group. That's when that decision was made. That was a bit of an unfortunate decision, so the whole group was on its back legs. Then the Prime Minister had to come to the group and he didn't really know that much about it. So a week later, Eric Wiebes himself came by to explain to us why that was all the case. Then Eric Wiebes turned out to be a bit of a joker, because he didn't really know how much money was involved...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'd like to interrupt you on the basis of what you're saying. Mr Wiebes is not here and is therefore unable to defend himself. So I would ask you to simply address your question to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	It's important to the history, I think. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to write about that in my memoirs one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	I don't know if people are waiting for that. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	At the time, no mention was made in the Group of the European People's Party about supply contracts to Germany. There was no mention of how much gas would be left behind and what value that represented. It turned out that in the fraction hardly anyone knew what a logarithmic scale was, which was the Richter scale. Now I hear the VVD say that the safety of the Groningers is paramount. And now we have just heard from Mrs Beckerman that the SodM has said that if we raise production a little bit, that can lead to extra seismic activity. But we never asked what would happen if we chose a safe solution, for example by injecting water or CO or nitrogen. So I also have the question to Mr van Wijngaarden whether the VVD can live with it if we come up with a technically safe solution where we use water injection, for example, to maintain pressure in the field, we simply continue to produce and the safety of the Groningers is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	I'm counting this as two interruptions. That's how long it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	Then I will try not to answer twice as long, but let me at least, through you, Mr President, express the hope that I will also get a place in Mr Van Haga's memoirs, but that aside. I very much appreciate Mr Van Haga's knowledge of mining technology in this debate. I do not want to say anything about things that we in the group have or have not exchanged with anyone; I hope Mr Van Haga understands that. But I would like to go back to Mrs Beckerman, because she actually gave it very well. She said that the technique you're talking about is also safe if you put things in there, because then those pressure differences have been removed; I hope I sum it up so well. But I also understand that the experts are still very different about this and that there is simply no conclusive study that confirms what Mr Van Haga is suggesting here. I believe that we should not take unnecessary risks with the safety of Groningers. I would like to say one more thing about this, because when I took over this spokesperson from Aukje de Vries, I went straight there. In addition to the beauty of the area, the concept of "strengthening" struck me very much. We talk all the time about "fortification," but "fortification" is actually that you put a construction in a house that gives you half an hour to get out alive at a quake of 5 on the Richter scale. That's what we're talking about here. So it's really serious. So I also think that we should not take a chance on the safety of Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	I am not a mining engineer, but an electrical engineer, by the way, like Theodor Kockelkoren, who gave this advice on behalf of the SodM. But again, he was never asked to give advice on what happens if we do apply water injection, that sandstone just fill up and keep the pressure at 70 bar. That is a completely different scenario, which apparently nobody is thinking about here. Of course I understand that we are a layman's board and that we all don't know very well, but that question should be asked to the experts. Then you get a completely different advice. It is perhaps EUR 1,000 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	Let me say first of all that I am not going into that scenario, because I think that is really too short a turn and too much a gamble. But I do get the point that's being made here. Mr Van Haga's question seems to me to be a question for the cabinet: why was that advice never asked for? I think that would be a good question to answer as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	Then I'll go to Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	I would like to thank Mr Van Wijngaarden for his occasional polemic input. "More energy in Groningen than in Groningen" I liked. I am not so happy to wish Groningen Eindhoven, for many reasons. I don't want to fall short of Eindhoven, but I don't think that's what Groningen is looking for. My question is as follows. Why doesn't the VVD, with all these twisting arguments about safety, the SodM and gas extraction, just say: "A deal is a deal. We promised and we're gonna keep it. We're not gonna raise that gas extraction this year. If necessary, we will eliminate a number of industries for a few months, such as the fertilizer sector." Then we keep our promise. Then the confidence, which is already completely absent in Groningen, will not be further damaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	Eric Wiebes, of course, was the one who said at some point: we're gonna close it. That was the goal. We're on our way to that target. That is what Mr Nijboer and I share. It is now about the pace at which we achieve that goal. As far as the VVD is concerned, that pace cannot be high enough. That is why I have just said: go before 1 April to see what possibilities there are to refrain from this extra gas extraction. I really challenge the Secretary of State in that. I really think we have that commitment to Groningen. But I just don't want to make false promises here either. I can do all kinds of tough language around here, but I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	My problem is that so many false promises have been made to Groningers. It has been said: 'This gas extraction goes to zero at a certain rate, but it may be that extra gas has to be extracted in a cold winter'. But it didn't say anything about the contracts. Nor did it say that, if they were not sustainable in Germany or did not comply with the agreement, or if large consumers were still late in converting their low-caloric gas plants... that was not the case. I find it very difficult to explain, or in fact not explainable to the Groningen people, that it is now being said: there are all other arguments that have not been promised and I give them priority over the observance of the agreements. You can do those appointments when you switch off temporarily. It only takes a few months, because then the nitrogen plant will be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	I also think that the government should make every effort to get that nitrogen plant ready as soon as possible to meet the expectations that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	Then on the so-called SME table. What achievements did that table impose on itself, I ask the cabinet. In addition, I have the question of whether the cabinet would like to use reinforcement per area instead of per address, with the involvement of residents as a condition. What cooperation does the cabinet seek with the construction world to obtain sufficient building capacity in Groningen? The VVD wants to see the risks of switching. Is the delay due to State-owned Gasunie Transport Services or to something else? If it is Gasunie's fault, what action does the State have as its sole shareholder? For example, does the cabinet exclude the placement of a state agent at Gasunie? The VVD doesn't do that. The rows of Groningers in the cold for the subsidy scheme have rightly been said: an embarrassing display. I'm rounding up. Can right holders who are unable to obtain workers within three years due to construction shortages still have an additional year to have the work carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Nine and a half years after the heavy earthquake at Huizinge, the misery in Groningen is still enormous. Promises are broken over and over again. In 2017, then VVD Minister Kamp claimed that solving the problems in Groningen would not last long. In 2018, then VVD Minister Wiebes claimed that gas extraction in Groningen would come to an end. And 2019 would be the year of implementation. Building contractors' vans were going to drive, so it was said. In the meantime, 2022, the number of tremors is increasing again, there is still no beginning of a crisis approach, the damage handling and reinforcement are not going to last, and there is a risk that gas extraction will go up again. It is a pattern of failing VVD executives who have just made a mess of it in Groningen. With an increased gas extraction, the Groningen duped get a kick after too. Mr. Chairman. The question then is what is this D66 Secretary of State doing substantially different and better than its predecessors. During his first work visit to Groningen, he said that he had much to learn and that he wanted to provide administrative rest. Well, that's where things go wrong right now, because what do you mean "administrative rest"? It's not about the drivers, it's about the Groningen victims. How is the Secretary of State going to solve their misery as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. And then Prime Minister Rutte, who tweeted in August last year: "Yes, not everything is going well in Groningen, but there are also positive developments. The damage treatment is on steam." How can you say it? Because, of course, the opposite is true. Tens of thousands more damage reports are open. Tens of thousands of houses are waiting for reinforcements. Things aren't going well in Groningen. The question now is: what is going to change? It is scandalous that in the new coalition agreement only one paragraph of less than fifteen meaningless rules is devoted to Groningen. And again only vague promises about perspective and generosity, as we have heard so many times. So nothing new governance culture, but old wine in old bags. Mr. Chairman. It is also scandalous that, in the new coalition agreement, EUR 60 billion is allocated to climate and nitrogen with the greatest ease, while the Groningen people are still left to their own devices. Totally wrong priorities. It is also scandalous that money is still being spent on asylum seekers, who are still given priority housing, while Groningers lives in a broken house. They've been waiting outside for years and hours for a grant to strengthen their home. It's just humiliating. It can't go on like this. That's why no more empty promises. No more complicated procedures, regulations and other bureaucracy, but pay damages, repair and strengthen homes. And, of course, do not increase gas extraction. Don't do it, as promised before. And don't do it to partially export that gas to Germany. What the hell do the Groningen people who are deeply in trouble have to do with the gas demand in Germany? Nothing at all, of course. Then the Germans will be in a house heated with our gas and the Groningers will still be in a broken house. That's unacceptable. The Germans are picking it out. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, make 2022, as promised so often, the year of execution and make sure that the Groningen victims simply get what they are entitled to. We can't settle for less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then we go to Mr. Van Raan, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I also make this contribution on behalf of BET1, which of course means that... Never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u86	...you don't get twice your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u87	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u88	Nice try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u89	Mr. Chairman. In 2019 the NOS headlined: Rutte apologizes three times for what has been done to Groningen. In other words, the rooster had crowd three times. He offered his sincere apologies for the crisis in slow motion, the nightmare. He said, "It must come to an end. This is a matter of honor for this cabinet. Close the gas tap, already in 2022, with severe winters aside." That became Rutte III's new promise. I quote: "The extraction of gas in Groningen will be completed as quickly as possible, as the safety of Groningers is paramount. The reinforcement and recovery operation must be completed in a good, explainable and generous way." That's Rutte IV's promise. Double gas production cannot be called "compliant with the new plan" with the best will of the world. This also threatens the new Secretary of State to become a victim of the Prime Minister's promises. This Prime Minister made promises, and it's up to the Secretary of State to keep them. "We keep your promise," we keep your promise, is the slogan of an American transport company. How's the Secretary of State gonna do this? In any case, let me begin by complimenting the Secretary of State. While he was under great pressure, he did not give in to the temptation of an easy promise on TV when the money ran out at the grant application and was not yet clear whether there would be enough money; a mistake from the previous cabinet. He simply said that the budget was up and that he was going to see if there could be more budget. As strange as that sounds, that's a fresh start. He didn't make an empty promise. That clarity, openness, that realism: that gives hope. Now a doubling of gas production is needed because of a delay in the construction of the nitrogen plant, due to permit procedures, because of a contract with Germany. So it's a test for this Secretary of State right away. Does he actually agree that the real underlying problems are that under Rutte I, Rutte II and Rutte III far too little has happened to escape the gas addiction? The demand for the Groningen gas is still extra high because large consumers are unlikely to meet the deadline of 1 October 2022 for the ban on Groningen gas. How many billion cubs does that actually take? Would it matter if the big consumers made it to the deadline? Does the Secretary of State have a visual on that? I assume that he will maintain the ban and prevent exemptions for large consumers after 1 October 2022, while at the same time guaranteeing security of supply for households. Bringing up more gas in Groningen this year can lead to more damage to houses. The State surveillance of the Mines warns of this. This means that the safety of the Groningen people is still not at the forefront, since it appears that a risk balance is being made which does not exclude the damage caused by additional extraction and that a further promise is being broken. Then the Secretary of State can best admit this here and now in order to prevent the deterioration of his reputation and fresh start, at least to continue the fresh start and prevent the deterioration of his reputation. The damage handling, the reinforcement operation, the recovery operation: it has become "a board full of cold spaghetti," as it was mentioned during the working visit last week with the colleagues, so everything that the new coalition did not want under the coalition agreement. Can the Secretary of State explain briefly here how that spaghetti is being pulled apart? Finally, the role of Shell and the NAM. How is it even possible? Shell wants to buy off his liability for the earthquake in one go. This company, Shell, on the one hand, is about to ask billions of Dutch taxpayers in the near future, is performing on the other hand to train and buy off the damages payment. Inappropriate and inappropriate behavior of this subsidised fossil giant. We don't care how long this legal joust lasts, as long as it doesn't bother the Groningen. So what promises will the Prime Minister make that the Secretary of State will keep, so that the Groningen will not suffer from that administrative spaghetti and what is the Secretary of State's plan for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Then I will give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u91	Madam President. As a new spokesman for Groningen, I have had many discussions with Groningers on behalf of our group. What remains with me is the expression of deep disappointment, but also of resistance and resilience. And that's what the new Secretary of State wrote about. I would also like to congratulate him on the clear letter he has written and wish him wisdom and strength in his important but also very difficult task to do justice to Groningen. In all conversations with organizations you also notice that there are a lot of good intentions. And with local drivers, you have the same impression. A lot of good intentions, but you can't live in good intentions. Something has to be done. I am glad that the Prime Minister is also in this debate. I should like to ask him the first fundamental question: does the Prime Minister agree with me that in repairing the damage and strengthening money should not be the problem? Then the gas extraction. As a thunderstorm in the clear sky suddenly came the message that this year's gas extraction will be significantly higher than previously observed. That was a bitter pill, especially in conjunction with the threatening decision on the children's heart centre in Groningen and with a subsidy scheme that was poorly prepared and poorly implemented, with very painful scenes. And yet gas extraction. We agreed that that gas extraction would go down, and now it would go up. My questions to the Secretary of State are as follows. What are the possibilities of bringing them down anyway? What about the contracts with Germany? Is it true that these contracts can be broken if circumstances change? What could we do to speed up the opening of that nitrogen plant, which converts high-caloric gas to low-caloric gas? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to reduce gas demand, in addition to this year's agreements with large consumers? And what does this mild winter mean for this year's expected gas extraction? Suppose more gas is still being extracted, does the cabinet agree with me that any additional revenue should be returned to where they come from, Groningen? Then the gas storage at Norg, at Langelo in Drenthe and at Graipskerk in Groningen. We have finally arranged something good, because residents can use a reverse burden of proof, but then the IMG changes its attitude and reduces the area in which damages are paid on the basis of two reports. I have a few questions about that. Is it true that damage caused by a combination of gas extraction and gas storage is not excluded? What does the additional use of gas storage for dealing with damage mean? Is the cumulative effects of stacked mining taken into account? Shouldn't the contours of the area be changed? Shouldn't that area be enlarged? I also agree with Mr Mulder's argument about gas storage. It has also prepared a motion for a resolution on this subject, which I have wholeheartedly co-signed. Then briefly about the IMG. I have heard that they have a hard line in legal procedures and that there is an uneven course of action in the event of, for example, delays. IMG may exceed deadlines, but when a citizen appears there, these delays are dealt with very sharply. Can the Secretary of State reflect on how that relates to the human measure we want? Then there's the reinforcement call. We saw the episode of Pointer. We have also seen that when the Secretary of State talks about a balance between on the one hand legal soundness and on the other hand trust, humanity and mercy, it still too often passes on to that legal soundness. That touches the promise of this cabinet, namely that this human measure is central and that we want a serviceable government. Lawfulness is important, but it's not blissful? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that legal and financial processes should follow the primary process of strengthening? Give those men and women in the execution the room to cut the buttons on the spot, instead of the people in the office. What does the Secretary of State intend to do about the uncertainty people have been living in for years? And it keeps gnawing because you don't know if your house is safe and what's gonna happen to it. Shouldn't there be an insight into the planning within six months? Finally and very briefly, Madam President. We have seen that there was a subsidy scheme that was miserably implemented. He wasn't well prepared. There is a subsidy scheme in the context of the increase in value. It's still running. There's still money in there, but it's about to end. It ends on April 1st. Would it not be wise, as long as money is available, to allow this arrangement to go through? At that point, I have prepared a motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u92	Thank you, Mr Segers. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Beckerman, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u93	I have good news. That motion was adopted after the previous debate. But I have a question for Mr Segers. The first speaker on the coalition side was quite certain. He said: extra extraction is only negotiable if the SodM guarantees that it can, without increasing the unrest in the Groninger soil. That was a guarantee: if safety is compromised, no additional extraction. Does the second spokesperson of the coalition want to give that guarantee as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u94	It is not the case that these four spokesmen sit together to agree on their speaking texts. We have some dualism. We also have our own responsibility as a group, but I think it is a very good starting point. In the event of tension between the safety of Groningen and the security of supply or contracts, the economic importance has too often been decisive, over safety. I asked the Secretary of State the following questions. Can we get out of those contracts? There are other circumstances. There is a mild winter. Can we make agreements with the large consumers? In other words, is there any good news? Because I want the gas extraction to go down. That safety weighs heavily. If we are in favour of this choice, then security is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u95	That's not very clear. To say that safety weighs heavily is another thing than to say that safety is one thing. We already have an emergency plan that is already in place to ensure that safety can actually stand on one. Then I have a second question. The spokesperson of the Christian Union says: if the extraction goes up, then there will be extra money for Groningen. It was added in the media that that money is for damage recovery and reinforcement. If the gas extraction doesn't go up, doesn't Groningen get that extra money?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u96	No, very sharp... at the first point, that safety is on one, I wholeheartedly agree with you. Let that be clear. No, that's not for damage and repair, like you're gonna pay for something you've already promised, like you've found cover for something that's already needed. That's out of the question. If there are extra returns, then it has to be extra and it has to go to Groningen extra. It has to go back to where it came from. But as paradoxical as it sounds when you want something extra: I want to prevent that, because otherwise extra gas extraction is needed, and I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u97	But my question was: doesn't Groningen get that extra money if there is no higher gas extraction? That's not a illogical question for Groningen. There's over 400 billion dollars in gas extraction here, just by the state. Of the part of which we know where it was spent, only 1% have landed in the North and 88% in the Randstad. Now you're saying, if the gas extraction goes up, there's gonna be extra money going up to Groningen. So my question is: will Groningen get that extra money anyway if that gas extraction is terminated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u98	This is listening very closely. Mrs Beckerman is linking this with damage recovery and strengthening, but that is separate from that extra income. Everything that needs to be done must be done. That was my first question to the Prime Minister, namely: does he agree with me that this is a statement of principle and that money should not be the problem in repairing damage and strengthening? This possible, unexpected additional income is independent of damage recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u99	This is your last interruption, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u100	I can't get an answer to my question. That question is: if the extraction doesn't go up and so goes to zero, we all want to get that extra money here, don't we, Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u101	If there's no extra money, there's no extra money to give, but Groningen is entitled to whatever it takes. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u102	I would like to continue on the same point. I also read on nos.nl that Groningen's revenues are expected from a gas extraction that we don't really want. I ask Mr Segers: are we not trying to sell the skin before the bear is shot? In fact, we don't want to shoot the bear at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u103	No, but we have to make the choice now. Suppose there are additional revenues, then the question is: do they go to the state treasury or to Groningen? Then my second question would be: what is the choice of the VVD group in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u104	The question is whether this is the right order of things, in two ways. Firstly, does Mr Segers now share with me, with the VVD, the ambition that we should do everything we can to prevent this additional extraction, the funds of which are being put forward to the Groningen people, that is what we should be doing through the NIS? Does he agree with me that this priority is one? Should these funds be made available, we also have regular channels for it, as with the Spring Paper, to discuss in an orderly manner that we need to stop energy in Groningen instead of taking it out. I think we share that. This includes money, but we also have programmes for this, which are independent of extraction revenues that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u105	I've been asking questions about the contracts. I've been asking questions about the gas extraction. The promise is made: it goes to zero. In the previous cabinet, the decision was taken that a historic decision was taken that gas extraction would go to zero. After huge mining in the cabinets before that, when it really peaked very high, the decision was made to go to zero. I was very happy about that. The road to zero is down and therefore not up. What's the bet? We're gonna have to lower the gas extraction. I would not like that to be unclear. I would be sorry if the VVD Group did. Suppose there is an unexpected increase in extraction, if there is one way or another, and suppose there is additional income. Then I would be very sorry if, also on the part of the VVD Group, there was a lack of clarity about that money: that perhaps that would just go to the state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u106	No, Mr. Van Wijngaarden, you have no more interruptions. We're going to see Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u107	Oh, I thought the coalition's busy. I understood from the proposal this morning that that money would go to reinforcement and damage, if additional winnings were possible. I do not think that has been corrected. I hope there's never gonna be an extra win, because then there's nothing. I have another question about the children's heart center in Groningen and the reports this morning about the barracks in Assen. Of course, that does immensely for confidence in Groningen. Then it is not directly about the gas extraction, but about the question: how does this office see Groningen now? I would like to ask Mr Segers: I know Stieneke van der Graaf as a colleague who is always committed to the people of Groningen; I often stand side by side with her party to make an appeal in the coalition, because he is in the coalition, to keep the children's heart centre in Groningen open and not to close the barracks in Assen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u108	There are no decisions yet, so I can't make a final judgment on them yet. Last Friday, my colleague Mirjam Bikker went to Groningen. She was very impressed by the quality of care provided there. I know how important it is to Groningen. Mr Nijboer knows that the Christian Union Group regards employment in the region as very important. In a previous period too, the barracks in Assen were called into question by a certain decision of a certain coalition with a certain composition, I say in this context. At that time, we were committed to maintaining that barracks, and we succeeded in doing so. I understand that Mr Nijboer is pleased with that, too. It is different from a decision of the Cabinet that the PvdA itself was part of, but well! So if such a decision is in order, then we are fighting for employment. For us, that weighs very much. Given our track record, to use a nice Dutch word, you can rely on it in the past. That is what I want to say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr Nijboer's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u110	Indeed, I can see Mr Slob with those pies passing through all those prisons and going to Ter Apel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u111	Sure. It was one prison and one...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u112	Yeah, that's right. I can still see that. Of course, decisions have been taken. We need to shut down the child's heart center. That has been said twice: first by the former Minister, Minister De Jonge, and now by the successor, Minister Kuipers. Yesterday, the Commissioner and the Mayor of Assen said: that is a planned decision. So I don't understand how the cabinet can decide that over and over again at that time. Doesn't Mr Segers understand that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u113	I am very pleased that Mr Nijboer is fighting so hard for employment in the region, so I would like to continue doing so with him. Our healthcare spokesperson makes her rounds around the various centers and collects information from everyone. There have been opinions from the sector before, in the vein of: boy, take it like this. Let's take a good look at that. So at the appropriate time we will come out and say what we have to say about it. I understand that there are official options at Assen, that no decision has been taken and that it will be weighed in width. I'll wait and see. But what I would like to say is that employment in the region is a very important point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u114	Thank you, Mr Segers. I give the floor to Mr Boulakjar of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As for the Secretary of State, this is my first debate on the earthquake problem in Groningen. I wish him, but also myself, a great deal of wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u116	The images of Groningers, waiting in long rows, went to me through marrow and bone. The only right thing the cabinet could do back then was fix the blunder right away. It is good that the Secretary of State also did this by making EUR 250 million available. When will the scheme be opened or reopened, so that all Groningers who are entitled to it can claim the grant? Mr. Chairman. Last week I spent listening to people in Groningen. A teacher from Groningen said to me: "For children, the constant fear of earthquakes and the emotions of their parents about the reinforcement and recovery have become normal." It scared the hell out of me. As the father of two young children, this came to me hard. This should never be normal. What additional steps can the cabinet take to help these children? How is the cabinet going to offer perspective to an entire generation that grows up in fear and uncertainty? Does the cabinet see opportunities to link this to, for example, the National Prevention Agreement? Mr. Chairman. Words matter. People in Groningen deserve respectful treatment. When the Prime Minister speaks in a press moment in connection with more gas extraction in Groningen about "destructive" and "annoying" while the safety of people is at stake and children no longer dare to sleep alone, these words are harsh. I therefore call on the cabinet to be more careful in communication. Another example of treatment is about the letters and messages that Groningers receive. I've read some of these letters. I'd like to read a piece from a letter like that. "The current version of the multi-annual strengthening plan states that the assessment of this address is expected to be completed in the last quarter of 2023. There are many uncertain factors that make this planning very uncertain." I ask the Secretary of State, what is a resident doing with this? People crave clarity and perspective and get letters like this. This has got to be better. Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement it has been agreed that foundation damage will be compensated and that the reverse burden of proof will apply to cases where this is not yet the case. Can the Secretary of State state state when this is settled? As far as my group is concerned, this is happening as soon as possible. Then the idea of the NAM to buy himself out. D66 considers that the NAM, in any way, must pay for the damage caused by it. I find it hard to believe that buying out the NAM could speed things up. This means that the NAM is now slowing down the procedures. At the same time, I also want a solution for the people of Groningen as soon as possible. My group has always said that we are considering any option that could lead to acceleration. As a room, we have to be on top of this. I would like to hear a commitment from the Secretary of State to involve the Chamber closely in every step of this process. Mr President, I shall conclude. I have incredibly much respect for the people of Groningen who, despite all the misery, continue to offer solutions to the suffering they must endure. I will always listen to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mr. Boulakjar. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr President, thank you. During the debate on the declaration of government, our group chairman indicated that this cabinet had made a false start in Groningen. I think it is appropriate to repeat these harsh words again today. While the rulers were standing on the board, the people lined up with rollators. "Demeaning" is a word I've heard a lot to describe this situation. This issue came on top of the report of the failure to continue this year's phasing-out of gas production. The tone of the letter on gas extraction was uncompassionate. The message that the gas level would remain unchanged while it would be halved has touched Groningen deeply. And it has been said, of course, that in a cold winter more gas may have to be extracted. Mr Nijboer has already spoken about this. But all of a sudden it came out of a box that obligation to Germany. During the debate on the government statement, the CDA asked the Prime Minister if he was prepared to make a personal effort to discuss the level of gas extraction in Germany together with the Secretary of State. That's what he promised. To what extent can there be any mention of this, and also of the motion adopted? Are there other options to meet the agreements without extra gas being extracted in Groningen? Colleagues have already asked about it. Mr. Chairman. Our goal is, of course, to achieve the original planning. And yet we would like to inform the Secretary of State that if that were not to happen, the revenue that would come in on top of the budget would have to be transferred immediately to Groningen. Does the Secretary of State share that view? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the grant scheme. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State looks back and what lessons he is learning for the future. How will the scheme continue to be implemented? The CDA wants it different. Give residents in Groningen what they need to be able to live safely again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u119	I also refer to that point "if it didn't happen." While, of course, it is up to us whether we make it happen; whether we let it happen that this gas extraction continues to go up again. My question to Mrs Mulder is therefore: does she agree with me that we should avoid this at all costs and that the switch-off of large gas consumers should be on the table who are still using a large part of this gas production?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u120	There aren't that many buttons we can turn. It's Germany, it's those big gas consumers or it's the nitrogen factory. I'd like that nitrogen plant to be available earlier. I asked for this in 2015 or in 2014 in a motion. It's not ready, also because of corona, we heard. That path is not an acceleration path, so that leaves the other two paths. We hope, of course, that the Secretary of State will have good news about this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u122	Of course, the Secretary of State may not have any good news yet. There's a shutdown plan. There's one through eleven steps in there. One of these steps is indeed to make agreements with this type of large consumer. You can do that harder. It can be legally secured. Does the CDA agree with us that that path should be followed if necessary in order to prevent more gas from being extracted in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u123	In that motion with Paternotte during the last debate on the declaration of government, we asked for all these options to be considered seriously, including this one. He's just as hard on that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u124	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr. Chairman. I do not mean the President by that, but the Cabinet, of course, and people will be able to see the future again. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see with the people themselves, followed by the drivers, where accelerations are possible, so that the approach becomes the character of a crisis approach? I know: the word has been mentioned very quickly and everyone has a different picture of it, but we are concerned that residents see that the government sees it as urgent and that it is perceived as urgent. As far as the CDA is concerned, residents and their homes are at the forefront of the policy of the new Secretary of State. Get this one-stop shop and make sure that residents and also SMEs and agricultural entrepreneurs know where to go. Treat them as equal partners, trust residents and companies, stop distrusting, balance the costs of experts and lawyers with fees paid. Pay the damage generously, get rid of building costs, speed it up. Make sure Groningers are safe again. How does the Secretary of State deal with this, and also, for example, with the Groninger Soil Movement and the Gas Council? Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this with them and also individual residents who run into cases, such as Ger Warink with his music store and how it all went? Shame on you! Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the direction of solution that is seen for further lowering gas extraction, namely the gas deposits in Langelo and Grijpskerk. That can be a good solution, provided that the problems are not exported to these places very nicely. The lessons of the past teach that this is happening. That does something with trust in the government. For the CDA, the application of evidence to and around the gas deposits is a tough requirement there. We, too, want the residents to receive the same treatment, whether they are treated at the IMG or the committee, and that monitoring is independently regulated. How is the Secretary of State going to shape the suspicions of evidence in such a way that it is not possible to adapt it to less generously, by anyone? I'd like a response. Finally, Twente. I shall be tabling a motion on this later on in the second term. I don't think it's good enough yet. There are really still steps to be taken. We had a written meeting today. There's more in there, but I'm out of time, so I'm gonna quit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr. Chairman. For JA21, three things are at the forefront of this sensitive dossier. The first is: the Netherlands should not take off the gas. Two. The security of supply to Dutch citizens must not be compromised. Three. The promises to the Groningen people must be kept. As is well known, JA21 sees nothing in the natural gas-free ambitions of this cabinet and, unfortunately, of the vast majority in this Chamber. Natural gas is clean. Germany is going to subsidise the gas. There is no support for the natural gas-free operation. Yesterday's research by De Nederlandsche Bank showed that more than one in five house owners simply cannot afford this operation at all. In addition, DNB assumes that the average cost will be €24,000 per house, while the Economic Institute for Construction assumes an average of €40,000, half of which is also uneconomic. In short, making the Netherlands natural gas free is an undesirable illusion. At the same time, a very clear promise has been made to the Groningen people. This gas year must be the last with regular extraction from the Groningen field. Depending on the filling strategy in Gijpskerk, this should close afterwards. The higher than initially estimated extraction in the gas year 2021/2022 is a bitter setback for the Groningers. It has been said here several times. Unfortunately, it's just another one. Almost twice as much gas will be extracted as a result of the delayed delivery of the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek and, of course, the increased demand from Germany, which makes the increase in extraction even more agitated. In Monday's letter, the Secretary of State wrote that he was talking to his German colleague. JA21 is also very curious to see how Germany's increased demand can be reduced. Can he give an update? Last autumn, when gas prices were rising, there was a lot of talk about low gas stocks in the Netherlands. The low filling of gas storage sites, combined with our enormous dependence on gas, which is 44% of our energy supply, twice as high as the European average, for the record.................................................................................................................................................................. This is a consequence of the fact that we depend on the market for gas supplies and, unlike many other countries, we do not make demands on commercial parties in terms of filling the gas stores. The coalition agreement now announces mandatory filling rates, but for the time being without further elaboration. When can we expect this, Secretary of State? What is really eating away at our group is the deceptive way in which the Groningen people have been treated for years now. The hours in which the Groningers had to stand in order not to grab their subsidies for improving the home were humiliating to see. More than 30,000 damage reports are still open and only 10% of the buildings are reinforced. From the letter of Monday's Secretary of State, therefore, I think it was right to speak humility and, at the same time, the ambition to act generously and with regard to human standards, especially quickly. That is exactly the measuring bar that we will pass this Secretary of State in the coming period. Finally. At the end of last month I read an interesting opinion piece by the Groninger André Doorlag in Trouw. He rightly pointed to the time-consuming and money-consuming nature of the damage handling. Bodies wipe their streets clean. Every crack is covered and a detailed report is written. Meanwhile, time is ticking, the bureaucracy is celebrating and Groninger is getting more frustrated. His solution is one that has been suggested before, so you can see when it taps in Google: now let damage experts look at a general pardon for that quake area. Have damage experts review and determine the extent of the damage, and then reimburse it. You're looking at this file with a fresh look. I'd like a response to this idea. It may be an old idea, but it might be a new solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u129	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens of the Netherlands, and in particular those from Groningen, perhaps present here in the gallery. The gas extraction from the Groningenveld has been phased out in recent years. This has made it safer in Groningen. They are not my words, but the words of former Minister Stef Blok. But I understand I can't mention his name because he can't defend himself. But the former Minister Stef Blok used these words in his letter of 6 January last to the Chamber, the day before he waved off at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. While the removal boxes of the minister, which should not be mentioned, were already ready, it was finely added that extra gas had to be extracted this year. A higher reduction in gas was expected due to export contracts and the delay in the construction of the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek. "Disappointing" he called it before he slammed the Ministry door behind him forever. "Bye, Groningen, good luck to you." That's how this must have happened to the people in Groningen, I can imagine. Mr. Chairman. A brief explanation for the people at home. To allow certain types of foreign gas to flow into our pipes, a nitrogen factory is being built in Zuidbroek. This plant can ensure that the composition of the gas remains constant and is therefore suitable for our households. Construction is delayed due to the lockdowns associated with covid and delivery is expected in the summer. That's a nasty delay. However, this delay is not, in my view, a legal unforeseen circumstance, as mentioned in the adoption decision. Or does the Secretary of State see that differently, and, if so, can he explain why this is an unforeseen legal circumstance? As far as I am concerned, exports to Germany are not a reason for additional gas extraction either. After all, in the commitment to stop gas extraction, the cabinet also immediately opened contracts with Germany. Or isn't it? As a reliable government and as a careful administrator, do you ensure that agreements that have been established here by law are implemented as well? You have taken all the necessary steps. Can the Secretary of State answer this? According to the Gas Extraction Decision, the extraction level for the gas year running from 1 October 2021 to 30 September 2022 is set at 3.9 billion cubic metres of gas, in an average temperature year. This winter is even soft, so should the gas extraction be lower, or am I wrong? Can the Secretary of State tell us how much has been won since October 2021? Our simple questions on this matter have been with the Secretary of State for four weeks, but have still not been answered. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why this is taking so long and whether the contract management on natural gas exports is in order. Some coalition parties want to agree to additional gas extraction if the income from it is one-on-one for the benefit of Groningen. I would like to ask the Members of the House: is the solution that you can reassure the people of Groningen with this gas drain, as Mrs Beckerman also mentioned? The current damage has not even been compensated, and for every euro of damages, 56 cents of execution costs are required. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our conclusions are clear. Extra gas extraction is humanly inexplicable to the citizens of Groningen and to all the other citizens of the Netherlands who are longing for a reliable government. In our view, additional gas extraction is not legally possible either. How can a Chamber that agrees with this expect the Dutch to comply with the many laws that we are making here, while we are taking a walk? At least I can't explain that. Be wise and don't let the cabinet get to you. Be a genuine representative of the people and show to all those voters who will be called to the municipal elections in the coming weeks that the government can be trusted. So no extra gas extraction. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u130	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u131	Thank you, Madam President. It is about the well-being of the Groningen people today, and that is right. The Groningers have been put in the cold for years by the Rutte Cabinets. The State could benefit from the benefits of gas extraction for decades, but the Groningen have hardly seen anything of this. In fact, the damage caused by the increased seismic activity is still not compensated. But this issue is also about the well-being of all the other Dutch. 92% of the houses in the Netherlands are heated with natural gas. The reduction of gas extraction has led to an astronomical increase in the energy bill. Over the past ten years, the energy bill increased on average by 35% and last year by as much as €500 on average per household. TNO's calculators even estimated that half a million Dutch people can no longer pay their energy bills, while there is another 500 billion cubic metres of natural gas in the Groningenveld. With current gas prices, this gas is worth 300 to 1,000 billion euros. It is inconceivable that we should leave that enormous prosperity under the ground, that we should not allow it to benefit the purchasing power of the Dutch and the reduction of the energy bill. Madam President. The solution is so simple. Any serious country would immediately compensate the Groningen generously and continue the extraction of natural gas. That's what FVD is all about. Give all affected Groningers, about 26,000 households, all €200,000. Then we will lose a little less than EUR 5 billion, compared to the hundreds to thousands of billion euros that are still underground. It's peanuts. It's just not comparable. Give them a Lamborghini gift, so to speak, and you'll still have nearly 1,000 billion left. It's unbelievable. FVD also proposes to have the Groningers report on the profits of gas extraction. Give all residents a share of natural gas extraction. Then they get thousands of euros a year in profits and then, again, there are hundreds to a thousand billion euros left for national prosperity. Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD just said that he wants to make Groningen the Eindhoven of the North of the Netherlands, but when it comes to FVD, Groningen becomes the Kuwait of Europe. We don't just pull these numbers out of a top hat. This is not just a forum for democracy. The Ministry of Economic Affairs recently estimated that the cost of damages is around EUR 3 billion and the reinforcement operation is around EUR 5.5 billion. That is less than 9 billion against, once again, potentially EUR 1,000 billion in the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u132	Thank you. There's one question left. Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u133	Yes, I have one very clear question. There are many warnings, namely that gas extraction is at the expense of the safety of Groningers. Does the Forum for Democracy want gas extraction at the expense of the security of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u134	No. I'll clear it up. I think I was very clear. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this reinforcement and compensation cost about EUR 8.5 billion. You'll have solid houses. They're earthquake-resistant. Some may need to be rebuilt. Then safety is guaranteed. But it cannot be explained, not even to the rest of the Netherlands, where the energy bill has been rising for decades and has now reached an astronomical point because of the high gas prices, that we are not doing this. This can't be explained. There's still so much money in that natural gas field. It was the largest natural gas field in Europe. Of course we have to help the Groningen. It's outrageous that that didn't happen. But you can. The prosperity that's underground can be used so easily to just give these people safe homes. We just have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u135	I'm new to this file and I'm terrified of it. "Give everyone a Lamborghini and everyone's happy" while it's about people's safety. I have one question for Mr Jansen. Did he discuss this bizarre idea with people in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u136	I said "in a manner of speaking," "give them a Lamborghini so to speak." It is, of course, a metaphor to indicate how much money is under the ground here. Again, it is scandalous that the Groningen people have not been able to tell us about it. But there is also no denying that for hundreds or perhaps a thousand billion euros there is underground. Of course, we don't have to literally give everyone a Lamborghini. It's an example of what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr Boulakjar, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u138	I asked the question: has Mr Jansen discussed this with the people in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u139	Yeah, I know quite a few people in the earthquake area. They are particularly angry that they have not been compensated for decades. I also know people who have built a new building house in the earthquake area and have received subsidies for it. You can build earthquake-proof. This is happening in many countries in the world. It's not like that's impossible and unthinkable. That's just gotta happen. That may cost money, and that money must be made available. That's a very simple calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u140	Mrs Mulder, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u141	It is appalling how FVD speaks here about a lot of people in Groningen who are victims of all that earthquake disaster. Is that something that FVD is interested in or doesn't FVD really care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u142	Yeah, I'm really sorry about that. I am also very sorry that your party, for example, has been involved for years in Cabinets that have not compensated for this. There are lots here in the Chamber with huge towers of butter on their heads, like D66 for example. These people haven't been listened to for years. We can now suddenly turn off the gas tap, but that doesn't make the soil stable all of a sudden. It's been drilled for years, causing vibrations in the soil. That has to be compensated; I fully agree with that. However, you will have to agree that there are still hundreds to potentially a thousand billion euros left in the ground that could benefit the reduction of the energy bill of all the other Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u143	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u144	Once again, this is a trade-off between the compensation of Groningers from several billions to some EUR 10 billion, with possible profit-sharing that may cost 1 or 2 billion per year. You can figure all that out. The mathematicians will undoubtedly come out of that. But it's just not proportionate to what's still under the ground. And what does the Cabinet do? It closes the Groninger gas field, making our gas supply dependent on abroad. In the meantime, it's looking for a fight with Russia, which means that our gas supply is no longer certain. The Groningers aren't getting any money and the energy bill is rising. That's unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. Once again, the Forum for Democracy wants to resume gas extraction and compensate the Groningen generously. Then the Netherlands is not dependent on foreign gas prices, the Groningen have justice and can reduce the energy bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u145	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. The directors have indicated that they need about half an hour to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u146	The next item is the debate on gas extraction in Groningen. I shall first give the floor to the Prime Minister and then to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is doing the answer sitting. Then you know that. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State for Mines will deal with a number of aspects, namely the level of gas extraction and the strengthening of damage treatment. Against this background, he will also address a number of aspects such as the talks with Germany, NPG and also the coincidence between those two, strengthening and damage, and a number of questions about NAM and finance. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked to me. I'll start with a few questions about the situation right now. I think you should note that I also said this in the debate on the Government Declaration................................................................................................................................................................................................ I said literally then: you're ashamed of yourself, and I think that's a feeling shared throughout the cabinet. The Secretary of State will then go into what that means for the further settlement, with the money that has fortunately been added, and how we are going to do it now. But that would have been preventable and it does not, of course, contribute to confidence. That was just a really bad turn and a bad start of the new cabinet. I agree with all those who have said that here. Furthermore, there is very little confidence in the government in Groningen anyway. There is tremendous anger, also because of the extra extraction that may be needed. We hope not, but the Paternotte motion before 1 April looks at what is really needed. We shall, of course, continue to discuss this with the Chamber. Can you compensate elsewhere? Anyway, Secretary of State File Letter is busy playing the whole organ there to see how we can do that. He'll go into that in a minute. But those rows of people out there literally with rollers and wheelchairs... It was all horrible. Mr. Chairman. If I zoom out a little more, I think you need to establish that there's really more to the reinforcements. The balance is now just above 3,000 houses and there are 13,000 homes to go. I really need a tooth with that. It is on two difficult points, which File Letter will go into more detail. It has to do on the one hand with the presence of sufficient construction workers, and on the other hand with a bottleneck at the exchange houses. Both are currently being worked on with man and power. As far as damage recovery is concerned, I would like to say that some 120,000 have been settled and that there is a working stock of 27 000. That is very significant, but I would ask you to understand that every week about 1,000 applications are added. That puts you at an average waiting period of six months. Of course, we all want to improve that. But if you look at the different regulations and the different things that have to be done, I do think that more is happening in this area. I am not saying that in order to exonerate the cabinet or to give a compliment to someone in The Hague, not at all. But when I get to Groningen, I hear people say that there is damage recovery, and now there is a bit more speed in that, although there is still a considerable amount of work left. What we are most concerned about is strengthening the homes and how we can increase the pace of them. Otherwise it's gonna be years in this way. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, a few specific questions, for example on the issue of energy supply, which should not be compromised. That was one of the questions from the Chamber. You know our position: we want Groningenveld to close as soon as possible. Moreover, there was also a question: 'Vijlbrief' will deal with this later on 'exactly how much money is still in it'. You can't say exactly, but I don't think it's that interesting either, because we just want to close that field, because of the big risks for further earthquakes if it stays open for too long. This closure, as you know, is dependent on the operation of the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek and the gas storage in Grijpskerk. Until then, the Groningen field is needed as a reserve tool, which, as far as we are concerned, is on the watchflame as much as possible. Close rather than according to that schedule gives us too many risks for security of supply. Once again, as far as the Paternotte motion is concerned, we will come to the Chamber before 1 April with a further explanation of what is possible. And, of course, energy supply is also a geopolitical issue in the end. But it is not that I agree with Van Haga, among others, that there is so much money left in the tap that we have to pump it out. I heard Jansen from Forum say the same thing. No, we're not gonna do that. That at that point...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u148	Before you proceed, Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga, and then Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u149	The Prime Minister says he doesn't care how much there is in the ground because "we're going to close." He says you can't pump it out. Well, it's not oil, is it? I don't see any yes marbles in the Groninger gas field, so we just produce that. We have of course had this debate before and then I was accused of reading the KEY and so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u150	I apologized for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u151	That is true, but I must point out to the Prime Minister that he knows my background and I know his, and that was of course not entirely positive for the debate. So again, and I just asked Mrs Beckerman that as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u152	No, you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u153	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u154	We, of course, went along as laymen with a decision to stop, because the danger to the Groningen people was. If that's the case, I totally agree. If there's a solution that keeps up the pressure in the field, at 70 bar, where we produce the 1,000 billion that's still in the ground and we do it safely for the Groningers, who we're taking advantage of, shall we have another look at it? That solution comes in the form of water injection, CO injection, nitrogen injection; I don't care. The Prime Minister himself is responsible for us going back from 347 bar to 70 bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u155	It has also been said in a few interruptions: of course, a lot of research has been done, for example on the key question of whether you could continue high-level gas extraction in a safe way. That's actually what Van Haga's asking for. I think Mrs Beckerman said in an interruption that this has been discussed here in the Chamber on a regular basis. Research has been carried out, for example, on the possibility of injection of nitrogen, but this proved unrealistic and not acceptable, partly because of the large impact on the landscape and the high costs. And that injection would in itself cause more earthquakes. In 2018, the option of nitrogen was re-examined. Again, the conclusion, among other things from the SodM, was that this was not a desirable option. You shouldn't want to experiment with safety, the SodM said. We have actually come to the conclusion that it does not make much sense to look at this a third time, that it is really better to stop completely extracting gas and that that is really the best way to guarantee that safety. There is still a further investigation in the Knowledge Programme Effects Mining. These results go, of course, to the Chamber; the planning is before the summer. But we do not expect new insights from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u156	This is, of course, a difficult debate, because one party says 'the experts say this' and my experience is that that is not true. It's not like injecting water that's used all over the world is causing earthquakes. Those earthquakes were caused by the sound of the sandstone from 350 bar to now 70 bar. If we can stop that, so if we stay at 70 bars, I think we'll get a whole different advice. I think that this question should be asked explicitly to someone like Mr Kockelkoren. I would like to point out to the Prime Minister that we have 1,000 billion in the ground here and that we have a technically solid story, which cannot simply be swept away with: we have had it investigated and nitrogen...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u157	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u158	Then we can do that. Then the Groningen will benefit from that. This will benefit the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u159	I told you, we're not prepared to do that. We really think that it is now sufficiently researched, that we should not do that, that we are taking too great risks with safety and that it is really very important to leave what is left in that ground there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u160	This is the second time the Prime Minister has participated in a Groningen debate. At the first time, in June 2019, he apologized three times: sorry, sorry, sorry. He said, "I'm sorry that security didn't come first, sorry that the damages and reinforcements didn't work out, and I'm sorry that it became a legal reality." I am very curious to know what the Prime Minister thinks of what happened to those three sorrys.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u161	I think we have made progress on all three, but I would like more. I think that putting security first is really at the heart of all the discussions we are having about the Groninger Field and about gas extraction. I think it's almost Chamberwide, except for a few. Then the speed of settlement. I'm not saying this to give ourselves a compliment. That would be totally inappropriate, but I think you can say that IMG's damage recovery has really accelerated over the last few years, although there is still a decent work supply and I wish we had moved on with the reinforcement. We're at over 3,000, but there's 13,000 left to go. I have just mentioned a few factors. It must, of course, improve further. We're gonna work really hard on that. That is also one of the reasons why File Letter is partly going to stay in the area. Literally: he goes there a few days a month personally to see what we can do to each other to pull the buttons out to speed it up. Then there's the legal side. I think that through a number of steps we have taken we are much stronger than we were then. Think about the burden of proof and a number of matters in the resolution. By the way, I think we should do more there. We have also discussed this for a long time in the formation of the new cabinet, including in the discussions we held in Groningen. I therefore believe that there is progress on all three, particularly at the first and partly at the second and third levels. I wish we were already there, but we're not. More needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u162	About that sorry... In the first year in which the reinforcement began, Minister Kamp promised to do more homes in one year than have been done now. To arrive now with 'yes, building capacity': we have always known that! If you want to fix it, you're gonna need that capacity. Then can I go into that first apology? I want to come back later on to the damage and strengthening, for example, of foundations, and the legal reality. That first apology was about the fact that safety hasn't come first in a long time. That's what you've been fingered for by the Supreme Court. Does the Prime Minister want to guarantee that if SodM says that more extraction involves risks, we will not do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u163	SodM finally reports on the basis of a TNO report to us whether the intended extraction height can safely be achieved. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u164	I'd like to continue with that apology. I must compliment the Prime Minister on his new find. We are talking about broken promises, for which excuses have been made, and now we are making progress on the apology. That brings me to the following questions. Sorry, I gotta go over there... If it wasn't so sad, I'd have to laugh about it: "progress on apology." There are promises made knowingly and knowingly that are broken. Then let me ask you this. The gas tap close in 2022, with severe winters aside: that was the promise; that was the quote. There was no mention of Germany or gas plants elsewhere. Is that right, or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u165	We have always known, in all communications, that there are any contractual obligations that require us, for example, to serve Germany extra in this case. We hope it's not necessary. We can't guarantee it, but we're working with man and power to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u166	There is of course exactly the crux: the moment you make that promise... I still haven't heard if that quote was good and if that was really the promise, namely: the gas tap close in 2022, leaving severe winters behind. You do that in the completeness of the facts you know. It was known that there was a contract and all kinds of progress cases were known. So it's an inclusive promise. That is why I think it does so much harm in the confidence that has been violated. So it wasn't. You couldn't promise, except for severe winters. I don't see any beginnings of apology either. He'll say, "We're making progress on apology." But I don't think anyone in this room is following him, and neither is in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u167	All I can tell you is what the facts are. The facts are that I didn't make any promises in 2019. I have made three apologies, to which I am rightly reminded, but not with the agreement: at the moment everything is resolved. It is not that I can solve the huge question of how much damage and housing is needed by making excuses. We all knew, and that's what I said: it's gonna take a long time to pull this off. There is progress in the area of damage recovery, too little in the area of reinforcement. I think we've established together that we're putting security at the centre. As far as mining is concerned, we want to get rid of it as soon as possible. We want to shut down those wells completely. But we are now faced with special circumstances, such as the nitrogen plant which is necessary for closure and which has been delayed. Secondly, there is the question of contracts with Germany, where Germany holds us to a contractual obligation. They can. We can discuss this with them; these conversations are going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u168	I would suggest to the Prime Minister that we get rid of that second point now. Can't we disconnect those contractual obligations with Germany from Groningen? You can just buy gas. The commitments are about a billion cub. The purchase price is €0.90, so that costs a billion, perhaps a year. That's what you buy in and then you can completely disconnect it from Groningen. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u169	We are prepared to look at what is possible and, in consultation with Germany and looking at alternatives, to see if that can go down and, if possible, go back to zero, but I cannot make a promise here that this direction could work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u170	Mr Kops, from the PVV, and then Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u171	I find the Prime Minister's answers a little too easy. I would like to ask him how he himself thinks that it has been in Groningen over the past few years and now goes. After all, we do see a pattern of VVD ministers, let's just name them who have made a mess of them for years. Minister Kamp has messed up. Minister Wiebes has also messed up and solved nothing. Now we have a new coalition agreement with, well, a few promises. It's barely 15 lines. It's promises we've heard so many times, which haven't gotten anywhere. Then we have a new cabinet, and it was said first: no, the gas extraction is being phased out; the field in Groningen will only serve as a watchflame and will only be used in a very severe winter. We have a new cabinet and now the first promise in the Groningen file has already been broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u172	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u173	How is that possible? How credible is that? And how do you explain that to all those Groningen people who have been in trouble for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u174	I just explained that. We all want to get rid of gas as quickly as possible. I think Wiebes did the following. The government's coalition agreement that took place in 2017 was still talking about a level of gas extraction above 20 billion cubic metres. Wiebes finally said: no, I'm going back to 7 in this cabinet period, with this cabinet, and I want to go all the way back to zero in the beginning of the new decade. That was considered impossible in 2017. I believe that we have all recognised this. A lot of things are going wrong, but I think there was appreciation at that time for the fact that we, together, Groningen and The Hague, managed to bring that gas extraction far back. We're talking about a threatening rise from three to seven. That's not good. That is why we are looking at what we can do in the light of the Paternotte motion to mitigate this as much as possible. We can't give guarantees about that. There are also agreements under which these guarantees cannot be given. But I think you can give Wiebes that he and a lot of others have managed to bring that gas extraction back so far. If you look separately from gas extraction at the question of repairing damage and the question of strengthening, then we are certainly not satisfied with the pace when it comes to strengthening. In repairing the damage there is still a decent work stock, but a lot of meters have been made. I think the anger in Groningen is on a few things. Firstly, the general situation of gas extraction, the general picture of the past ten years since the earthquake in Huizinge. In addition, very specifically in the very short term, the fact that this gas extraction should be raised again. It has rightly led to anger. But certainly also the events at the beginning of January during the government's swearing-in: those lines that stood there and the fact that we could not prevent that with each other. I told you, at least I'm ashamed of that. I understand 100% that people in Groningen are all done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u175	Mrs Van der Plas, BBB, and then Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u176	I might have a really stupid question or a simple question; it's just how you look at it. Weren't the contracts with Germany just broken when it was decided to stop the gas extraction? Guys, we're quitting 2022; you need to find something else. But maybe I'm thinking too simple. I'd like to know how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u177	I will look at it a little further for the second term, but as far as I know Wiebes has talked intensively with large users and looked at the expectations of gas use in the Netherlands itself. How fast can high-caloric be converted into low-caloric via such a nitrogen factory? And what do we need for overseas? Maybe File Letter already has that in detail in first term; otherwise we will do it in second term. Breaking a contract is breach of contract. I don't think that's an option that was on the table. But the conversation with Belgium, with Germany, has been with others: what do you need to bring down that gas supply as soon as possible? What you see now is that Germany says: we have a contractual option to ask for extra in a special circumstance, which we are now in. That's what they're doing now. That's part of the contract. But of course, it's not like you can blow up a contract at will. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u178	That is where I conclude that everyone in the Chamber and in the Netherlands was actually taken a bit for granted at the time. It was said that we will stop in 2020 unless there are very severe winters. Now I hear in the Prime Minister's reply that there has also been a request: what do you think you need? So no contract was broken. It hasn't been said either: boys, then it's just really over. In my opinion, it has been a bit suggested that by 2020 it would be just the end of the story. I therefore wonder why we have asked the Secretary of State why these contracts are now suddenly on the table. So they were there all the time. Then why wasn't that said?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u179	What I know is that Wiebes and EZK-wide have spoken intensively with the other countries. This has thus led to a substantial reduction in gas demand and the possibility of accelerating completely stopping gas production in Groningen within the framework of the contracts. Let's get this straight. The more detailed question could probably answer File Letter by now. Otherwise, we'll do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u180	I'm going on at this point anyway. In my term, I quoted someone I spoke to in Overschild. The government is deeply distrusted here, bordering on hatred. Then I saw the Prime Minister look down. Those are probably words he'd rather not hear, but that's the sentiment there is. A promise has been made that no gas will be needed in the middle of 2020 in an average year. It's 9 degrees outside. It seems to me that the temperature is an above average year. Now it is said quite carelessly: Yes, in 2022 or 2023 we stop, if possible. In any case, they've been drinking for over a year. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u181	I agree from A to Z with what Mrs Kröger says about the impact that such words have on her, on me, on all of us. I understand the words, too. I'd be done with it myself if I lived there and it went this way. We all have to feel responsible for that, and I'm sure of it. There's no discussion about that. That falls into three parts. I told you, that backup needs to go faster. The damage repair is fairly steamy, I think. And the gas production has to go back to zero. That seemed pretty steamy. There is now a very nasty kink in the cable, which means that from a extraction level you may end up at more than 3 on more than 7. This is due to two factors. That's because of the nitrogen plant that's coming off too slow. I think that is a statement that I can explain to Groningers. It can happen, also due to corona and licensing issues, that such a thing can take longer. That can happen on its own. It's awfully miserable when that happens, with all the mistrust that's already there, but I still think that's explainable. Of course, that German contract is in my throat too. We're looking at what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u182	But that part of that raise from three to seven because of that nitrogen plant is about this gas year. But it is now about saying quite effortlessly that 2022 is not going to work either and that it is going to be 2023. That's about the next gas year. Then that factory is there. Then that factory works. Then why can't the cabinet make it clear to the Groningers today that it just stops in the gas year 2022-2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u183	Because we are also learning from the fact that we have said quite clearly earlier: it is then over. This is rightly criticized by the Chamber. There's anger in Groningen that it's taking a little longer. Again, the wretched thing about that is that the initial planning in 2017 was that in 2021 you had fallen very hard to twenty and when in 2018 you came to the conclusion that in 2020-2021 you could fall well below ten and by 2022, by 2023, could completely stop. Now we try to be as realistic as possible and say that we are doing everything we can to get back to zero as soon as possible. An exact schedule has File Letter in front of it. He'll go into that in a moment. I think that's the honest story, including to Groningen. If people over there hear it might be more than that expected three decimal places as of April 1st this year, then I get that rage 1,000%. I can't make that any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u184	If the Prime Minister says that everything is being done about it, then the question is whether the exit plan will enter into force. From point one to point eleven there are very concrete things that can be done to reduce gas demand. Those are painful things, but then let's not let Groningen take the pain. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we are having a gas crisis and that the exit plan should come into force before we decide to start winning more gas in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u185	I think, then, that there is a Paternotte motion that says that the cabinet will come before 1 April with an opinion on the threat of an increase in gas extraction. Vijlbrief and the cabinet are now working terribly hard to implement this. I'd think it'd be decent to give that a chance right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u186	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u187	Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions for me. Afterwards, File Letter will address the three aspects of gas extraction, strengthening and damage handling. There was another question from Segers: do you agree that money should not be the problem with damage and strengthening? The answer to that is yes. The coalition agreement contains an ambitious task for Groningen. It has also been said that, if necessary, additional money will be made available for this purpose. This task is now being translated into concrete actions. So I answer his closed question, which is yes or no, with yes. Finally, a question from Mrs Mulder on Germany. I think that File Letter will go into that in more detail. I myself discussed it during my visit to Chancellor Scholz in January. The conversation is now taking place between the Department of Economic Affairs and Climate here and our confrères on that side and we need to continue with that conversation. If necessary, he and I will discuss it afterwards, if appropriate. That conversation's going on. This is all part of "what can we do before 1 April to see if we can return gas extraction in such a way that we do not have to do that increase?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u188	I believe that you have answered all the questions. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Van Raan, then to Mr Segers and then to Mrs Mulder. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u189	Let me turn to the previous point. I hear the Prime Minister saying a lot here that he wants to tell the honest story. Of course, that's what he always wants. Apparently he also told the honest story when he made the promise that the gas crane will close in 2022, leaving severe winters. We're hearing now that this obviously isn't the fair story. I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to make available the documents on the decision-making process, which led to that promise of 'gas tap close by 2022, with severe winters aside'. I would like to see the documents on this decision-making. Are these contracts or are they not included in the decision-making process? Are those unforeseen things... Because unfortunately we cannot trust this Minister.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u190	That's quite a statement. Then you'll have to file a motion of censure against me, if that's what you think. Because then the question of trust is on the agenda. Well, then do it! Then I challenge you. No, I've already told you that File Letter is about to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u191	But a question is being asked as to whether you are prepared to release a number of documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u192	What I said was that File Letter is going so far as to address the whole issue of reducing gas extraction. He may include this specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u193	Then we'll hold on to this question until the Secretary of State's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u194	I can't see that now, honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u195	That's not the question. The Prime Minister says that Mr Filipino will comment on "bringing back to." I am asking about the decision-making on the "reduce gas extraction" promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u196	The Prime Minister said that the Secretary of State will return to this question, also in response to Mrs Van der Plas' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u197	And if necessary in second term if it isn't in it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u198	We're definitely holding this question together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u199	Yes. We'll definitely keep it on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u200	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his principle statement that money should not be the problem. I would like to point out to him that many residents in Groningen feel that this is the problem. They're in procedures, it takes a long time, there's counter pressure from the counters they come across and there's persistent answers. There is also a problem with the subsidy scheme designed to improve and make houses more sustainable. An amount was agreed that was not sufficient for the number of residents that Groningen has. So at all times Groningen has given the impression that money is a problem. How can we take that impression away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u201	There are two specific things going on. There was the housing improvement scheme. That was what the 250 million extra was made available for, which led to the embarrassing images of the rows in Groningen. In addition, the value increase scheme is in place, which expires on 1 April. Mr Segers asked a question about this. He said, "Shouldn't you let that arrangement go through as long as there's money for it?" At the moment there is still 41 million available for this valuation scheme. We will extend that date so that this budget can be drawn up. We are considering the follow-up to the regulation. Mr Filipino will say more about this in a moment. The total amount of grant schemes is four pages long. As noted by a few MPs, they are not all for exactly the same parts of the Groningen area: sometimes or not Norg and how Zuidbroek is in it and so on. He'll see if he can simplify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u202	In fact, Mr Beckerman had already tabled a motion on the increase in value. That was settled, and it's gonna be pulled as long as the money's there. That's good. However, there was a discussion about the other subsidy scheme, where money was indeed too short. In the beginning and in the discussion on how we were going to build it up, there was indeed a discussion about money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u203	That housing improvement scheme, right? From those rows.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u204	Sure, sure. It was intended for the sustainability and improvement of all houses and all Groningers could claim that. If the Prime Minister now says that he agrees with me that money should not be the problem, such discussions should not take place anymore. If we have an arrangement, it must be sufficient and sufficient. We must prevent these embarrassing displays from happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u205	Yeah, but what happened here is that it's estimated how many people would use it in how much time. I say by heart that there was about 300 million available for this scheme for the expected number of people who would use it. That turned out to be a lot more. When that turned out, in logistics, that led to those horrible images. This also had to do with the way in which the implementation was organised. It also meant that an additional 0.25 billion had to be arranged in order to fix that. Fortunately, File Letter did so, which allowed us to clarify. We also look at all these arrangements to see how much money is needed. If necessary, we can make additional money available for this, in the spring note or at times when it is necessary. But the atmosphere of the talks between the negotiating parties, in which Mr Segers and I were both present, was that, if extra money is needed, we make that available, especially after the impressive conversations we had in Groningen with the execution but especially with the impressive conversations with residents. Only, of course, you have to budget around per scheme. It's not like the money doesn't come when it's more, but you have to have a sense in the rich budget of how much money it costs. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u206	I would like to touch on that last point. I hope that not at the bottom of the band is counted, but at the top. It's better that you have something left over than being too economical. I just got an answer to my question about the talks in Germany. Was Scholz benevolent, did he understand the situation with us in the Netherlands? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u207	The tricky thing is that I don't know if, if I go into that confidentiality, it will work positively on the settlement. So let me not do that. For my part, I can say what I have put forward there, and that is that we are concerned about that additional question from Germany. It may, by the way, appear to be contractual, but we have to ask ourselves whether we want to do so with each other. That's what the conversation is about. We agreed that we would stay in touch with each other about this and, if necessary, discuss it further, without guarantee. I said in the debate on the declaration of government that it might be possible to do so also in the implementation of the Paternotte motion that it is not possible to get below the seven. This is possible because of the combination of Zuidbroek, Germany and insufficient alternatives to scale down. It could be. File letter is working on that. We hope to find out more as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u208	I ask this question to the Prime Minister, because the question covers several areas. We had those rows, where knowingly just wasn't enough budget. Mr Segers is right to ask. The Minister is ashamed of himself. They were warned in several debates. The Children's Heart Center in Groningen, that really cut through the soul. More than a quarter of a million signatures were collected. People say, "How did you get into your head to want to close?" And yesterday the news came back about the barracks in Assen. I have the next question to the Prime Minister. These are crucial things, also for the future of Groningen. If he knows that trust is so fragile, how can his cabinet keep making these kinds of proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u209	On that issue of the Johan Willem Frisokazerne in Assen: no decisions have yet been taken. This involves the fact that the Defence Department is facing a huge problem of making real estate healthy and future-proof again. Now it's up to the DOD to come up with plans. This has not yet been decided. I think it was Mr Nijboer who tweeted about the p.i. In Ter Apel. I checked with JenV. As far as the cabinet knows, there are no plans for closure. And more specifically, the Children's Heart Center. I believe that next week there will be a separate debate on the Children's Heart Centre with the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Maybe it's a good thing it's being discussed there. I absolutely understand that this is extremely sensitive. I totally get that. This concerns not only Groningen, but it currently affects several locations. In the core, it has to do with the following. I'm just gonna say it briefly and homely. Fortunately, relatively few children with an open heart disorder need surgery. The number of adults with a complex congenital heart disorder is also relatively limited. That means there aren't many surgeries going on. For the sake of quality, concentration is necessary. That's what the health professionals say. That has led to a number of reports that advise to focus it on two or three places. Two places have been chosen. I'll just say one more thing. The decision to focus on care for patients with a congenital heart defect in Rotterdam and Utrecht focuses exclusively on heart interventions, i.e. surgery and catheterisations and therefore not on all pediatric care. The UMCG Children's Heart Centre continues to exist without child heart surgery. Yeah, that's right. It'll go away. But that means that in future children will be able to go to their own hospital for a large part of the care. Emergency care is also guaranteed. This is a very sensitive issue. This is ultimately a very limited number of patients with a limited number of specialists working on it. In the opinion of the professionals, these specialists are now spread over too many locations. That is at the expense of quality. This is what I now know, and also knew, about decision-making. Again, I understand that this debate will take place next week with Ernst Kuipers. But I fully understand the sensitivity, also in relation to what we are talking about today about gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u210	I didn't refer to the prison in Ter Apel to scare people, but because in previous periods it took struggle to keep the prison alive. We are fighting that battle again for the barracks in Assen. If there is a lot of extra money being invested in Defense, then I don't understand much more, I don't understand at all why in Assen then the whole thing has to close down. I don't understand at all that if there are three hospitals that perform child heart surgery in the west, as we say in Groningen, or in the Randstad and one in Groningen, which is one of the best in the country, why the cabinet then chooses to close it in Groningen, knowing how important that crucial care, that employment and also the sentiment in Groningen is. I believe that this argument is not sufficiently weighted. This applies not only to Groningen, but also to Limburg and Zeeland. In recent years, you have also had a lot of discussion on the subject of defence. I'm asking the Prime Minister to weigh this more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u211	I do not agree with the conclusion that this would not be sufficiently weighted. We do that very carefully. But we're dealing with a problem here. That problem is that the number of specialists that can perform this type of operation is very limited and that they work in too many locations. The umc's, the university medical centers, didn't come out together. There are 11 heart surgeons in the Netherlands who can do this. They're working too many locations now. That's a problem. They should also be available 24 hours a day 7 days a week. That's the point. That leads to very sensitive choices. But again, the debate will take place next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u212	Since the Prime Minister is now so specific about it, I have a question. There is so much social unrest and so many substantive arguments have been put forward, today but also by others. You could also think: we are going to reconsider that decision, and I say that today. The Groningers all took action here yesterday. Not only Groningers, also people from Overijssel, Drenthe and Friesland were there with very compelling stories. That's what keeps them busy. So you could think: we owe them a little money after those rows, so we're going to reconsider it as a cabinet and maybe there's something in those arguments they have. That is also possible, rather than repeating the arguments contained in the letter of the Chamber. They didn't convince us, nor did other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u213	Since this is still the subject of a separate debate, it might be good to share the different images in peace. I think we all know Hugo de Jonge and Ernst Kuipers as drivers with a warm heart. Now let's just see what's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u214	Then I'd like to thank the Prime Minister. There is indeed a committee debate on the future organisation of cardiac care on 17 February, from 10.00 a.m. to 3 p.m. I suggest that we suspend for a moment and then move on to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate with the Mining portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u215	I'll resume the meeting. The next item is the continuation of the debate on gas extraction in Groningen. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To the audience and those watching, the reason I'm sitting is because I have back problems. It's not a lack of respect for Groningen, but it's because of back problems. After everything that's happened, Groningers shouldn't feel like they should be begging. They shouldn't have to line up and they shouldn't be surprised by higher gas extraction. I see it as my task for the coming years to put an end to that. The main objective of this Secretary of State is to help the Groningen generously in damage and strengthening and to put a definitive end to gas extraction. So far I have spoken quite a lot of Groningers and they were all friendly, without exception. Some of them were sad. They kind of lost faith that it's getting better. A lot of people had walked along in the torch tour. They didn't actually believe that things could be different and better. If the gas extraction had taken place in Holland, one of the Groningers said to me, the problem would have been solved long ago. Or: you just want to make sure that the NAM pays as little as possible. Mr President, this has to stop. I've been hired to stop this and I've agreed to do the same. When I have finished this task, gas extraction must have stopped, the damage must be done as much as possible and as fairly as possible and many houses must have been strengthened so that people can live safely. In the end, that's what it's about. It is about the interests of ordinary people in ordinary houses in an ordinary, yet special province of the Netherlands, Groningen. I see it as my task, according to the coalition agreement, to promote it fairly and generously. The good question is, of course, how do you do that? I am going to go into the blocks that we have in the debate very extensively. I will deal extensively with strengthening, damage and gas extraction, but first I will mention a few main principles. I don't think you're doing it by stacking settlement. You don't do it by letting financial interests prevail. You don't do it by a tight straitjacket in the execution. Nor do you thank Mr Van Raan for his compliments by making promises which the Groningers have heard too often. I have two starting points. We listen to Groningers and where we can do it the way they want us to do it. Words are words, but deeds are better. That is why, as soon as possible after that terrible Monday with the swearing-in and the rows, the cabinet added 250 million to the subsidy scheme. That doesn't solve the problem. That wasn't erased, but it's all we could do. We did. That is why I deliberately did not promise that the extraction of gas will go back to the previous level. I have promised that I will use all my knowledge and experience to do anything about it. This debate is too early to make any final comments on it. I will deal with this later. I'm gonna help the Groningen as much as I can. I spoke to a gentleman in Middelstum on the first Monday I was in Groningen. He said if you're gonna increase the gas extraction, I'm gonna sign up for backup anyway. He hadn't done that yet. That's what I'm trying to prevent. I want to show the Groningers that their interests are paramount. I will also say it honestly if we have to choose between two not so fine alternatives, including in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber cannot therefore expect new laws, regulations, etc. from me unless they help on the ground in Groningen. That is why I took note of Mr Kortmann's plea for buying out the NAM. I shall come back to that in greater detail later. Maybe that's a good idea or not, but it's not the first thing that was in my head when I was in Groningen and talked to those people there. It's about these people being executed. The point is that there is an NCG and an IMG that help the Groningers and that work together. The point is, there's one point of contact if your house is damaged and it needs to be reinforced. The point is that there are enough temporary homes, that there are men and women who can work in those houses. I was there last Monday. Then I talked to Stut-en-Steun. I think that's a foundation. Those are people who help to help in the paper jungle that we always create, of course, to make sure that something actually happens. That's all I'm gonna try to promote. Therefore, at least two days a month, and perhaps more, I will keep office somewhere in the earthquake area, in a permanent place. That's how Groningers who want to talk to me can do the same. I hope that I will be able to create a perspective, strengthen the prospect of a quick and fair settlement of damage and strengthen it. Of course, I also see the rapid stop on gas extraction as my task. I'm gonna walk by a few blocks now. First comes the gas extraction. In the wake of that, I will say something about NAM and finance. Then I will say something about damage and strengthening, and then I will briefly answer some questions about the economic perspective for Groningen. I want to start the gas extraction. I was just listening to the discussion. In my judgment, a few things started to get mixed up in that. In the letter I sent to the Chamber this week, I write that we will definitely stop winning gas in '23 or '24. Final means final. Why '23 or '24? Because that depends on whether the nitrogen factory in Zuidbroek is actually doing it and whether I can use Grijpskerk for the storage of low-caloric gas. '23 or '24 depends on the question whether I can fill Gripskerk enough. In '23 or '24, gas extraction stops permanently. After '22, so when this gas year ends, we'll only produce on the watch flame. That's on a very low level. Only in a severe winter will we win more. For the mathematicians among the members of your Chamber: that watch flaming period can therefore not last longer than two years. It lasts one or two years. That's what I'm saying here. Then this gas year. I'm really doing everything I can to get back to the old level of extraction. I found what happened there very annoying myself. I do a number of things about that. The Chamber now knows what's causing this. It's from deliveries to Germany. I'll say a little more about that in a minute. It is also because Zuidbroek is delayed, and there is a dilemma. If we win more this year, we can stop sooner, because then the filling in Griepskerk is more done. There's that dilemma. That being said, I'm just going to carry out Paternotte's motion. I am already doing that, and I would have done that without the motion. I'm investigating alternatives. What can we all do to prevent this additional gas extraction? In addition, there is a total effort to go back to the level we originally had. That's 3.9 bcm out of my head. I've been at it for four weeks. I think that 3.9 bcm is right. That's gotta be it again. I'm working on that in every way. Let me walk you through what you can do there. I have called the German Secretary of State Webext, as it is so beautifully called today, and the Prime Minister has even been to Berlin. He has talked about all kinds of things, but also about this. I have agreed with the German Secretary of State that he will let me know as soon as possible whether the question from Germany could be reduced. What's that all about? I was just talking to the Prime Minister about it. Let me just say it homely, 'cause maybe it'll be the brightest. There are simply gas pipes through which low-caloric gas passes from the Netherlands to Germany. So if a party in the Chamber or myself would say that this should stop, then I literally turn off a crane. By the way, I also close a number of Dutch households near the border, because these cranes are not at every point. But that is generally what countries that are friendly with each other do not do. What I can try to do is to convince the Germans to try to keep the demand for low-caloric gas as low as possible. That's what I'm doing, that's all I'm doing, and that's all I'm doing. Then there's a second block I can do. I can see what I can do to make more low-caloric gas without pumping up more Groningen gas. There are already nitrogen plants in the Netherlands; are they all used? The third line. Members of the Chamber have just said that it is rather hot outside, which leads to less gas demand. Then there remains a question that floated in the debate all the time. That's the question: can you take people out? Actually, those are companies, not people, I hear Mrs Beckerman say to the left of my ear. That's where discussions get mixed up. I just want to make that clear. There is a cascade of possibilities that you can use, a staircase of possibilities that you can use if there really is a gas shortage in the Netherlands. You walk down those stairs. Last year, that was also reported by the then Minister of EZK to the Chamber. One part of this is switching off large consumers. But you can only do that in that cascade if there is a real gas shortage. In other words, if you were to use that tool to ensure that there is no more pumping up in Groningen, that would probably mean you're in direct court. But I don't want the Chamber to think, he doesn't want to. No, it's not a question of not wanting at all. I'm going to investigate all the possibilities under the Paternotte motion. This one goes with it. But I'm just warning you, I don't think there's the main solution direction there. I think the main direction of solution is to create more supply. I have to look at that. I also need to see if I can bring down the German question. That's what I'm trying to do about that gas extraction. Of course, there will be a question which I understand the following question. That question also came when, as I said, I was in Groningen on the second Monday that I was Secretary of State on this wonderful subject. That question was, if you had to win more, what would you do with the money from it? I believe that the Groningen States had already adopted a motion on this at that time. I find this kind of what-if questioning myself, while I'm actually constantly trying to get that gas extraction down, moderately interesting all day. But I do understand the question. The reasoning in Groningen is of course: you get it out of here, then bring it back in the form of money. I'm not against that in itself. I can even follow it. When I heard that yesterday or when I read it in the newspaper this morning, I thought that was a nice thought. There are a few aspects to that thought. Firstly, I think that, if I wanted to do this, I would have to go to the Minister of Finance first, because I do not think that it is generally customary for you to separate a flow of money entering the Empire for a particular purpose. The Minister of Finance usually thinks so. But the main question that lives with me is the next one. I would like to say to the House of Representatives: please give me a great deal of time and space to complete this Paternotte motion in the coming week. If that did not work and we still have to win more, which I think is a totally undesirable situation, then we can have the discussion about what we do with the money that we collect extra from it. I think that's the right order. I also thought that was a bit like that here in the debate. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I should say something about those contracts with abroad, because that led to a little... I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u217	A number of people want to interrupt, but perhaps it would be better if you finish the theme for a moment and then everyone gets the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u218	I'll finish it if that's okay with you. Those contracts are there. What kind of contracts are there? What lies there are deliveries from the Netherlands during the period when the Netherlands was a gas producer. And those deliveries continued and continue until about the end of this decade. Why are these deliveries so arranged? Because in the original planning gas extraction stopped at about that time. That's what's there. So that was the discussion between the Prime Minister and especially Mr Van Raan. What the hell's going on? There are deliveries and those deliveries go, as I just said, to Germany, Belgium and France. That's what's there. We're gonna keep supplying that low-caloric gas, only it's not from Groningen anymore. It is then made using nitrogen and delivered from that storage in Gripskerk and a bit from Norg. That's what happens, but there's nothing special or weird about that. Those contracts were always there. And again, the duration of those contracts was linked to how long we would be winning gas. Let's see if I've finished this whole thing. There is still the question: a large customer? No, big customers have to switch from L-gas, Groningengas, to H-gas. GTS has trouble doing this on time, but... I like that they're having trouble with it, but I think it has to be done. So I don't really have much patience with it that people have trouble with it. I'll let the Chamber know if that doesn't work. Moreover, neither does I say that with emphasis the final end of gas extraction nor does it determine the amount to be extracted in the coming gas years. So in that sense, I can reassure the Chamber. But it's just been agreed that they would switch off L-gas and that should just happen. Mr President, perhaps I should take the following with me. Because it's linked to stopping winning gas. The Gripskerk storage facility is crucial to stop winning gas. That storeroom in Graipskerk is going to be used as a kind of counterfeit Groningenveld, so we can deliver from there. We were just talking about it: there are also people in the Netherlands who just have a stove on L-gas and want to get L-gas delivered. That's what they get from there. Mrs Mulder asked: could it be that you are creating the same kind of legal situation there as in the Groningenveld itself and as in Norg, namely the reverse burden of proof? I think the answer to that is yes. I am in favour of doing so and thus giving the people there the feeling and the real guarantee that if anything goes wrong there... By the way, SodM generally responds calmly to this thought. But I think it would be wise to apply it there as well. Mr President, that was this block. I also have a little bit about NAM, but I might want to do that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u219	That's how we do it. There are quite a few interruptions: first Mr Segers, Christian Union, then Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks, Mr Van Wijngaarden, VVD, Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals and Mrs Mulder, CDA. And then Mr Boulakjar of D66. I was going to say "please sit down," but you're already sitting down. Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u220	I thank the Secretary of State for his efforts. He identifies all those fronts on which he is now fighting to ensure that this additional gas extraction is indeed not necessary. And we all hope so. But I'm still asking for an assessment of where we stand. A certain period has been given for that. So there will be on the appropriate table... I thought that's what the Secretary of State said April 1st. Then there's gonna have to be clarity about it. But where are we now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u221	I don't think anything I'm saying right now about where we are is gonna help. But let me put it this way: the direction in which the gas extraction in Groningen seems to be going in the coming year is down. And that is from that too high level that my predecessor mentioned earlier. Mr Segers mentioned 1 April. Yeah, that's the formal date I have to make the decision. I will then take that decision on the basis of a safety analysis by TNO, validated by SodM, with an advice. Mr Paternotte's motion actually gives six weeks after the declaration of government. I myself hope that I will be able to get to the Chamber sooner with what the image looks like. You can imagine that if we could get back close to the old level that we thought we were going to win, which is 3.9, the amount of analysis that is then needed to look at the security risk is quite limited, because then you are back at the level you already had an analysis of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u222	That's what we hope. That's really what we're hoping for. There are good conversations with Germany. That is good neighbourliness and then you hope for goodwill, from that side too. But a little bit more legal: is it true that we are contractually obliged? Or can changing circumstances create a different interpretation and another application of the contracts we have signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u223	The point is not so much contractual as physical. I was just trying to explain, but I haven't been clear enough. If you would like to deliver less while the Germans want that amount, then you can only do one thing and that is physically turning on a crane. That's a really crazy move between two friendly countries. Then you just lock someone up. That's not really appropriate. The German Secretary of State understood very well, of course, that if, for example, a state decides not to win gas in the Wadden over that German state, then it becomes a very difficult story for me in the Netherlands to explain in the Dutch parliament that we do have to deliver to Germany. I have made this clear in my best English to this German Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u224	Thank you. Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks and then Mr Van Wijngaarden, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u225	The Secretary of State refers to the switch-off plan and interprets it directly as hard legal measures to eliminate large consumers from the gas. Fortunately, the ladder has some steps, from one to eleven. The first step is a very mild step, namely a call for a reduction in natural gas consumption, a kind of social measure aimed at all customers. In the light of this, should we not just start with this stepladder in the face of the threat that we are further violating the confidence of the Groningen people and that this is already a gas crisis? The Secretary of State may initiate step one in this way. And before we get to step seven, luckily there are still some steps in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u226	I understand Mrs Kröger's question very well. I was just trying to point out that we will look at all these things in response to Paternotte. The government statement is from a week or three ago, so that response should come in a week or three. Then we'll see which one we can best apply and which one we can't. This will include the measures, including those mentioned by Mrs Kröger, with an assessment of whether they are necessary or not. You must hear from my answer that I think we can achieve a lot without having to take this kind of action. So I am rather optimistic about what I can achieve through other methods. But then I'll go into it in detail. I didn't want to do that, because that's a burden on all kinds of conversations I'm having. Mrs Kröger can assume that we will include all the useful options in the answer to Paternotte. What I said about shutting down already applies to this plan. Even if you end up in a serious gas crisis, for example, no glass is delivered from a certain country and you have to switch off, we have to compensate companies that are forced to switch off. That is an example of this. Before you do that, before you take that step, you must have looked at all the other things. Mrs Kröger will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u227	It is, of course, the strength of this ladder of measures that begins with a no-regret measure. There are a lot of reasons why it is good that we are going to use less gas. To use Mrs Beckerman's analogy: when there is a period of great drought, we find it perfectly normal when the water companies say 'dear people, was not your car' or 'use a little less water'. We think that's perfectly normal. Why can't the government now commit to using less gas to keep the promise that we're not gonna get more gas in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u228	I do not think that is such a strange idea at all, but I would add that we are not in a harsh winter. We are in a very mild winter, so it is relatively seen on the demand side, by consumers, already uses much less gas than normally in an average winter. We're really in a very warm winter. The question is to what extent an additional call for less gas consumption will have a significant impact on gas consumption. Then you'll question my technical knowledge. I don't know. You can only go that far down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u229	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD and then Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u230	The cabinet always speaks with one voice, so what the Secretary of State says here, he also says on behalf of the Minister of Finance. He was just very nuanced. I had to listen carefully to what he said about the idea of making money out of potential income right now, from a possible extraction that we really don't want. A thought experiment: how would a thesaurier general at the Ministry of Finance look at that idea? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u231	This example has been chosen at random, as I understand from Mr Van Wijngaarden. In this case, it is actually about the Director-General of the National Budget. He will say to the Minister: if you ask me, I do not think it is a very good idea for you to separate pieces of income, even if it is extra income, for a special purpose. I just said that very subtlely, but I'm saying that a little more clearly. That's what a public servant would say. But we are in a very special situation here. I was just telling you that I was in Groningen that Monday and everyone was outraged by that gas extraction decision. I don't think it's so weird that they say, if you do that, could we please get back the money that comes with it? Of course, that's not strange from a political point of view. That's not weird at all. However, the Minister of Finance should ensure that as much as possible an overall balance is made. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u232	But I hope the Secretary of State agrees with me, with the VVD, that we should invest in Groningen anyway. Instead of extracting energy, we need to put energy in it. That must be independent of whether or not we want extraction income, which we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr Van Wijngaarden again says the magic words that we do not really want. That's what it all starts with. Secondly, he says that it should be separate from that. That brief discussion just took place in the small debate here in the Chamber. A number of members of the Chamber rightly said that it is necessary to resolve and strengthen damage. There's no discussion about that. But I thought those who suggested this idea said, "If extra money comes, you can put that extra money in to settle damage, strengthen it or something else in Groningen; then you bring it back to Groningen." Once again, that is not a strange political idea in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u234	I think it is very good that the Secretary of State has already said that he cannot rule out more gas being extracted. Then the Groningers know that if that happens, the risk of damage to their homes is real. That's what SodM told us. I have a question about the other companies that use gas and are not ready for the changeover. GTS says, "Maybe that won't be done in time." Does he intend to maintain it or not to grant exemptions? Or can he explain here, or in a letter, that that has nothing to do with the Groninger gas field at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u235	It's falling apart in two. Mr Van Raan gave a rather strange summary of my point on gas extraction. I think I've been here for half an hour saying I'm gonna do everything I can to bring back the gas extraction. Then he draws half the conclusion: the Groningen can't assume it's safe. If SodM were to say to me "at this and this gas extraction level you are putting Groningen at risk; that is unsafe," I do not think I will find a majority in this Chamber to take that gas extraction decision. At least that's not gonna happen. But that wasn't the point. We are always talking about a hypothetical situation, where more is won and SodM says "that can be safe" on the basis of the TNO work. Still, I say, "I don't want to do that." I'm working with man and power to prevent that. In reply to the questions about the conversion of these nine companies, I said that I think that this should be done. Am I gonna keep it? It's actually the other way around: do I grant an exemption if that hasn't happened yet? Mr Van Raan can assume that this will not affect either the setting on the watch flame or the stopping of gas extraction. If he wants a letter about that from me, I'd be happy to write another letter about it. But I think we'd better narrow down the number of letters. I'm just telling him here: this is my goal. If I were to grant an exemption, for whatever reason, he could assume he'd see me again before I did. Well, then I guess I kind of bricked that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u236	I'm fine with that. I think it is a good commitment, especially if it has nothing to do with Groningen or gas supply in general. Just at the first point the Secretary of State responded to: it is true that he argued for the first half hour that he does not want that gas extraction. No one wants that. But the fact is that he can't guarantee that. With regard to that German procurement, there are solutions. With regard to that ladder, there are solutions. There are a few more that Mrs Beckerman whispers to me in the ear, but so soft that I can't hear it. Maybe that'll be in the second term. That gives a slightly different character. So, yes, you said for half an hour: we don't want it. But he doesn't really guarantee it. I congratulate him on saying: I cannot rule it out. Then so do the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u237	Yes. Thanks for the compliment. But the Groningen people must hear above all in this debate... They don't have to do anything. But I hope they hear that I'm working hard on it, that the direction of that extra gas extraction is basically down and that I hope to return to the level of 3.9. 'Cause that was actually the triple I made. I'll do whatever it takes. I am not going to declare a means of being taboo in advance, because that was Mrs Kröger's question just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u238	Thanks to the Secretary of State for his clarity about reversing the burden of proof, or the suspicion of evidence for Gripskerk. I am also very consciously linking this to Langelo in my contribution. Because we also see, of course, that it has not been properly applied in the past year. The IMG has a different explanation of this and has made its own decision. This does not respond to the wishes of the Chamber in recent years, nor to any motions that we have tabled to the legislation on this matter. My question is: how are we going to ensure that we do this in a way that we do not export the problem from Groningen to the gas field in Greipskerk and also not to Norg? Because this really leads to mistrust towards us as governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u239	Thank you to Mrs Mulder for this question. Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm coming to the Chamber soon, I thought, with a decision, or an intended decision, about the use of Gravel Church. There I will add, in writing, how I intend to ensure that. I think that's what it's all about. Then I can also look back. I do not know that history, of course, exactly what has been promised and what has gone wrong there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u240	The same applies to the way in which Langelo is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u241	Yes. The short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u242	Most compliments for the passionate argument, although he did so sitting down, but that is understandable from the Secretary of State. I have a question about the scaling-down of companies. There was just a little debate with Mr. Van Raan. I have the question: what causes a number of companies to lag behind? This can also be done in the letter you promised to Mr Van Raan, but perhaps you can tell us now what makes a number of companies lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u243	I didn't want that letter to happen. I think I would have prevented it. The answer I can give now is that GTS, Gasunie Transport Services, has to do the work here and that it is purely in the physical work that has to be done. That's how I understand it, but I heard you. I think it is wise that I should send a note to the Chamber on this matter, explaining why there has been a delay and what the possibilities are. Mr Van Raan has already indicated that I could have promised this much better sooner, but I was still trying to spare the officials. But I think it's wise. Then I'll just do the full monty here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u244	That may be a very short note, as long as it is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u246	Before we go to the theme of NAM and finance, we will go to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u247	In my opinion, almost everyone was under the impression that secret export contracts were not able to stop gas exports to Germany. But now I hear the Secretary of State say: no, it is not so much the contracts on which it is based, but it is more that you do not stop exporting gas to friendly countries such as Germany. If he puts it that way, it'll make it a lot easier. If it is apparently possible to simply turn on the crane and stop the export of gas to Germany, why doesn't it? I hear him say: Germany is a friendly country. Yeah, I'm sure all of that is. But if it's so easy, why doesn't he, for the sake of the Groningen and their safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u248	Let's get things in the right order. I am talking to the Germans about whether we can deal with each other in a normal way and whether gas demand from Germany can be reduced. Secondly, if you do want to do that, you have to physically turn the tap. I said something about that, but Mr Kops forgot. It also means that you will disconnect a number of Dutch people. If Mr Kops thinks that's a good idea, I'd be happy to look into it. However, it is a horse medal that you don't normally use in friendly countries, especially among fellow Dutch friends, who might live in Groningen. That gas is from Groningen. If I help Mr Kops by looking at what can and cannot be done under the Paternotte motion, I have no problem with that at all. Then everyone can make their own decision. I'm just saying what it's like. This is how it works physically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u249	It may be a horse's tool to simply turn off the crane and physically no longer supply gas, but a switch-off plan is being discussed in the Chamber if it is really necessary. It has been said a few times: if it is really necessary, if there is a shortage of gas, we can, for example, simply disconnect large companies and industry from the gas. If this is discussed and it is apparently possible in the extreme, then it must also be possible to simply stop the supply of gas to Germany? The Secretary of State says it's a friendly country and we just want to deliver. Why is this really my feeling that he chooses more for the sake of Germany and not so much for the people of Groningen who are in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u250	That's not what I'm doing. One of the first things I did was call that Secretary of State and negotiate with him about a lower gas demand, like you normally do. I have already said that although I do not see that it is going to be handled, I am quite prepared to include this option in the answer to Paternotte's question. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the difficult question of how to deal with the proposal of the Director of Shell Netherlands, Mrs Van Loon. She actually said on behalf of the NAM: wouldn't it be a good idea to start talking about the "What's the best word for this? Buying out the NAM from this whole process? Mr Nijboer and others have said a great deal about this, many things I agree with. One. I don't like the fact that the NAM started this arbitration. I don't like it because of the imaging. I also do not like the fact that the NAM has its responsibilities there. But that's up to the NAM himself. Then there's one question, which is, is it good statesmanship to say, when the NAM calls me to talk, no, we can't talk. I thought this was Mr Nijboer's position. I disagree. I'm not gonna do that unless the Chamber says it's really not allowed; you really shouldn't. But if Mr Nijboer says "Dear Secretary of State, thank you for talking but every euro that has to come back from the NAM must come back after those talks," I agree with him. This also directly indicates that the likelihood of a rapid outcome that is satisfactory for the government and the parliament is not so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u251	I do have trouble talking to the NAM, because they simply refuse to pay the bills to people who work hard in Groningen to get things in order. All the NAM does is frustrate the place, get bills and brochures and bother people. The NAM only assumes mistrust: what she did to the people first, she now does with employees of the IMG and the NCG. That's frustrating the whole thing. Rewarding that with a conversation and opportunities to get rid of it, I find a very bad approach. In fact, I don't think these people should be welcome to the Secretary of State anymore. He has to say to them: if the arbitration cases run like this, you look at it all and see you in court... I will not add a word to that. He should then develop a tax and tax the oil companies so much that they become nauseous if they help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u252	I recognize a part of the feelings, with the emphasis on: a part. I'm gonna try to rephrase it one more time anyway. I don't think it's entirely untrue that the fact that NAM has to be declared for damage enhancement costs has an impact on the processes, especially at IMG. See the interview with Mr Kortmann. In fact, I agree with Mr Nijboer very much. In his speech he says: "That is a rather indirect effect, isn't it? If we think the IMG should be generous, then we can just do it." When I say that to Mr Kortmann, he says to me: "Spaceful? I have to act on the basis of the damage." The NAM, which is still hanging there, somehow plays a role there. So it can be attractive to remove the NAM from that process. That could be worth something to the state and the Dutch citizen. At the same time, I am very close to Mr Nijboer's point that they should simply pay for what they have caused and that they should not be so difficult about it. I couldn't agree more. It is also true that these arbitration cases take a long time. Groningers aren't happy with that thunder cloud of the NAM hanging there. That's what they keep saying. That is why I think: I can at least listen to what the offer is. But I have just said that I think it is going to be very difficult, because I am very close to Mr Nijboer in terms of substance. I'm only being honest with you about what the dilemma is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u253	Minister Kamp maintained for a long time that it was a liability of the NAM and that they had to do so. That went to hell. People were totally fucked up. Then the government said we'll take it from here. And now the NAM says she doesn't want to pay the bill. That's the government's bill, taking over, with all the shit. It's not that easy. It's not that easy. And now the Secretary of State is willing to talk to them because they're frustrating the place. I really... That company says... we've had them here in a few hearings. Then they said they don't judge against the government at all. We have an arbitration case; they refuse to pay bills. So they just lie and cheat. They're amoral. I do not think that there should be any movement in that from the government, also because of those companies... they keep going on and on. That's the background behind this. If you're gonna reward that behavior, what are they gonna do next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u254	I really can't get any further than... Mr Nijboer didn't ask a question either. I don't mean that ugly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u255	A cri de coeur, it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u256	It was a cri de coeur. I have outlined the dilemma I see for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u257	The answer started with the Prime Minister, who said he hadn't made any promises in 2019. That was rather painful, because the Prime Minister called it a matter of honor. But I think the tone is changing now, with the Secretary of State. I think that is positive, but it is still very little concrete. I just got hit by a few words Mr Filipino spoke. He said that the injured do suffer from it, but they do suffer from the way in which it is overloaded. That has always been definitely denied. October 26th, the cabinet said that it doesn't bother residents at all. So this is a trend break, but the question is what that will mean for the injured. Do you agree with the SP that if you acknowledge that it affects residents, we should also ensure that they no longer suffer from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u258	The short answer is yes. Mrs. Beckerman, I'll be right back on damage and backup. I'm gonna try to be more precise after four weeks, I'm gonna say again what to do. I repeat my point. When I talk to victims of this drama, they say, "You do say that the NAM doesn't matter, but we feel and see differently." That's what I hear, and so does Mrs. Beckerman. I'm trying to be practical. That means that if you're gonna make good on damage, you're gonna do it generously. I quote from the coalition agreement. I just said to Mr Nijboer: there is my dilemma about the NAM and the buying out. I have to talk to Kortmann about it, but if it's true that the IMG does that less generously if it could do it when the NAM is completely gone, if there's no need to declare it at home, then maybe that's a route you should explore anyway. I do not know if I will answer the question now. Once again, I will come to damage and strengthen, and that will become a little more concrete. The consequence is that you are generously compensating people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u259	Groningers haven't heard the word "beautiful" for a long time. That is because it has been used very often, but has never been put into practice. I ask the Secretary of State to separate these discussions. Each time it is said that the victims are not affected by the discussion with Shell and Exxon. What if we put that into practice? What if we just really do what the victims need, namely damage recovery, reinforcement, even when it comes to the foundations? That's what really needs to be done. And then you fight it out with Shell and Exxon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u260	Mrs Beckerman is now luring me into the next block, because this is just about damage and strengthening. I'm gonna say things about that. And then she has to judge if she hears what she thinks she wants to hear. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u261	Is that a good deal? Then you can come back to that in no time. That's good. In my view, it is no problem that this does not go away from your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u262	It's free.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u263	Before proceeding, Secretary of State, Mr Van Haga has another question about NAM and finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u264	I take it the reserves that are left behind are covered by the block of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u265	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u266	I had asked the Prime Minister a question, but I did, of course, ask the Secretary of State. How much is left behind? According to my data, the NAM's balance sheet finally showed something like 800 billion cube. Now there's 600 billion cube left behind. At a gas price of 60 cents, that's 360 billion. But that was two years ago. Now the gas price has exploded, so we can charge 1,000 billion. But is that number of the 600 billion cube gas that's left behind correct or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u267	I'm always used to not guessing in these kinds of debates. I don't know about this. Then I'll have to check that that's correct and then I'll come back to that in the second term. Then I'll answer that. I'm sure it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u268	I didn't mean to bother you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u269	No, no, no, that's not how I experience it, but I'd rather give the right answer than half an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u270	It wasn't meant to be a test. I think it is important that, before we turn that crane completely off there, the whole of the Netherlands knows how much cuub remains in the ground and what gas price we can charge now. Maybe it's better to get a letter about that. I just really want to know. Because it's a science. Whole companies have broken down on the estimates of reserves. There's a P1, a P5, a P90. I just want to know those numbers. These seem useful for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u271	I don't know them now. I am not going to guess that either, but neither does Mr Van Haga, for which I am grateful. I'd love to write a note about that, but I'm gonna say one thing about notes I promise. Every note to be written is written by an official who can also help with the damage and strengthen it. I will do so because Mr Van Haga is asking a fair question. By the way, he's gonna talk about his own questions. He can just ask. That will be a very short note in which we answer these two questions: how much remains in the ground and what does that mean at an average price of X? That is what Mr Van Haga is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u272	This is a rather precious note. It's a note of probably 1,000 billion. That's not so small. This can be done incredibly much for the Groningen people. So thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u273	Mr. Chairman. I was at the challenges I saw at the frontier of policy and implementation. I'll get to some of them. I'm going to put some things away in processes in the sense that I want to come up with solutions, but I'm not going to bring them here tonight. I don't think the Chamber would expect that either. The first was mentioned by Mr Nijboer, but everyone actually mentioned him. This was about the so-called unexplained unfair differences that occur, whether in the case of strengthening or in the case of damage. Mr Nijboer pointed out contours, but it also has to do with adjusting rules during the competition. There are all kinds of examples of this. I just wanted to make a good overview of it and see what I can do about it. I can hear the differences, of course. I'm gonna be there two days a month soon. Then I'm going to hear these differences every month, "on one side of the street and on the other side of the street." Sometimes they're explainable and sometimes they're not explainable. But first of all, I think that I need to get this straight and secondly, I need to take action when they are inexplicable or unjust. Which action that is exactly, I don't know. That's not easy. Mr Nijboer will admit that to me immediately. Every contour, every border, naturally leads to a discussion about the next border. However, I have to do it because in practice, in conversations, I find too many examples that I think I cannot explain either. That was point one. Paragraph 2 is all that has to do with it. I just didn't use the good words; I'm going to look at Mrs Beckerman with arrangements that overlap, institutions that are more or less in competition with each other, figures that come five times after which others come again. Mrs Beckerman calls that, I think, one-house-one-plan. Some people call it a one-stop shop. I don't really care what you call it. I think the essence of this idea is that we are going to take care of the following. If people are dealing with damage and reinforcement, we've arranged it through a novelle. No, it's the AMvB. Sorry, I shouldn't have called the word "novelle." I see a slight chill pulling through the room. I meant the AMvB that still has to be put forward and for which there is still work to be done. I'd actually like to try to work as much as possible with the thought that if you're in that area and there's something about your house, whether this is damage or fortification, you're dealing with one person and one plan. I know what I'm saying with this, because this is very difficult. Mrs Beckerman is going to say that this has already been promised and tried five times, but I would like to try again, because this is the only good idea. That's what I hear when I'm in Groningen. That was the second point. Then there is the third point. I'm gonna try to do something about what I call "physical limitations." Physical constraints are things like shortages of swap houses and shortages of building capacity. I want to work on that as soon as possible. Mr Van Wijngaarden, I believe, but also Mrs Beckerman, mentioned the village-oriented or area-oriented approach. I plan to contact Building Nederland in the short term, as far as tomorrow is concerned, to talk to Verhagen about how we can make it a kind of prestige object for a contractor to help solve this problem in Groningen. If this is one of the problems, can we do something there? On four you have the category "between shore and ship," that's what I call it. I'm really impressed, I'm going to say it again, and that's perfectly right to say what Stut-en-Steun does for people there. I'm going to walk with Henk, one of the people there. It's not gonna be an easy day, I'm afraid. He also said I should wear jeans. I'm going to walk with him for a day and look at what the Special Situations Committee is doing and what the intervention team is doing. Between shore and ship is a problem in all these types of files and is again a problem here. Then the better communication. Mr Boulakjar and I believe others spoke about this. The examples of poor communication are usually tearful. I've been in charge of the IRS for a few years, and that's where we've come across that problem. We really need to do something about this. Then the last and the most difficult, I say in all honesty and sincerity. That is the commitment in the coalition agreement on the foundations. An IMG gets more powers to do things. That's what IMG finds complicated. Entering fundamentals throughout the strengthening process is extremely complicated. I talked to people in Woltersum myself. That must happen often, because it is in the middle of that area. It's really complicated. I'm very afraid that if we don't do this right, this will lead to a new delay wave. That's what I hear. The question is how do I ensure that these foundations are taken up and that at the same time the rest of the reinforcement, which is already under way, will not suffer. Mr. Chairman. These were the main lines. I'm gonna go see if I haven't answered some questions yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u274	Let's finish first, Mrs Beckerman, then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u275	Very often the word 'crisis approach' falls because it was also used by the Ombudsman, I believe, and rather by the Court of Auditors. Part of the crisis approach is to strengthen and bring damage politically into one hand. That is what has happened, namely in the hands of this Secretary of State. A second important part of the crisis approach is what I mentioned earlier, that one-house-one-plan idea. I'm just gonna walk by. Mrs Beckerman asked about people who have not been compensated by the NAM. I've asked the IMG to allow the re-evaluation. They're working on that now, and as soon as I have concrete data, I'll report it to you. I've discussed the contours. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about damage to dungeons. The IMG compensates for damage to manure cellars as of September 2021 and has started a special scheme. The IMG determines its own course of action and has obtained expert advice. On the basis of this information, the follow-up damage to farmers will be reimbursed. I will check on Mr Van Wijngaarden's signal on my next visit to Groningen to see if that goes well. Mr Nijboer asked a rather fundamental question, which again has to do with the one-stop shop: is it not because it is two different organisations? Yeah, I think so. I think that's part of the problem. But I'm also afraid that if I try hard now to merge two organizations with a totally different corporate culture, anyone who's been with the organisations will recognize that, we'll be running late. I am going to try to put something over it with this one-stop-shop idea and so on, so that you still function as one organisation. Mrs Beckerman referred to a deadline of 15 months. The letter to IMG states a maximum time limit. In practice, IMG's aim is to do so within six months. That works in the majority of cases. I agree with Mrs Beckerman that it should not be the case that IMG imposes more time limits on itself than it allows residents. I mentioned communication. I just said I'd come back to the suspicion of evidence when I come back to Grab Church. Then I'll take Norg with me right away. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked about the housing improvement subsidy. I am going to say something about this explicitly later. Exactly: the subsidy with the rows. He asked: can you make sure that there could be an extra year for those three years? I'll report that to the SNN that's running it for us. I actually agree with that. I'm gonna try to do that. Let me answer that. We talked about the 41 million. Last thing on this block, I have to say something about... no, I have more, I'm sorry. I wrote in the letter that I will work more closely with civil society organisations, the Gas Council and the Soil Movement. When I was in Groningen, I got the impression from those two organizations that they were more or less pushed out of processes and reflections what they were in before. I have been in contact with the two Presidents and I have said that I am going to fix it. That is the concrete implementation. I understand my officials are already in Groningen tomorrow to talk about that. That brings me to the subsidy scheme. It has been said many times in different ways and I have just said it in my own introduction: that must never happen again. The SNN is willing to do the next batch, but before it starts to see who is entitled to the next 250 million in this scheme, it's going to handle the first 25,000 that have been done properly. I think that's wise. Secondly, the SNN is still evaluating what went wrong with the digital process. There too, all sorts of things have gone wrong. A relative of mine lives there in the area. He was standing at the top of the queue, turning around to get coffee and then stood at the bottom of the queue. Oh, that's terrible. That's what the SNN's looking at. Then it would be the thought that in April there would be a plan for that last batch, in which we could distribute the 250 million. That could be completed before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u276	The problem in Groningen has never been a lack of fine words. We always do. I'd like to start believing it with a lot of people, but after all these years it's very complicated. I would like to start specifically with that "one-house-one-plan," something that appeals to me very much. Let me give you the example of Mrs Jolan Mensenkamp. One day, she received a letter from IMG that compensation was delayed by 15 months. That was on top of the earlier 15 months' letter. And that same afternoon she got a call from the NCG that the reinforcements were also delayed. Does that one-house-one-stop-shop mean that only one person calls them that both are delayed? Or are you going to change something substantial about that approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u277	This is, of course, a rhetorical question. If I said, "No, it just means that you're being called twice by one person with a bad message," that's not what Mrs. Beckerman is looking for, and neither am I. You ask me: can you now indicate in the capillaries exactly what you need to do to prevent this? You're gonna have to tear it apart. The delay in the damage can sometimes have a different cause than the delay in strengthening it. The damage is normally an amount paid. It's just the settlement of an amount. Strengthening often involves the physical problems I just mentioned, such as insufficient housing and insufficient building capacity. Before I give this answer, I really need to look at it more closely. I need to ask those people and NCG and IMG more precisely where this question comes from. That's the only solution here. That is also the answer to Mrs Beckerman's comment on the fine promises. Those promises aren't gonna do them any good. The only thing that benefits people in Groningen is that with Mrs Beckerman's example she is going to give me, no doubt, to the NCG and the IMG to ask what happened here. I'm doing this to keep it from happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u278	The painful thing is that these words are not new, of course. For example, the reason the NCG called was because it did not fit in with the typology approach. The typology approach was precisely the promise of a previous parliamentary debate in which we found that there was a great deal of delay. That makes it so incredibly painful. Each time there is a new team that says: we need some space to take a look at it. In the meantime, a lot of people are waiting. Maybe I could go into the foundations. That too is not a new problem. There are people who have to go through the IMG to fight a legal battle. The IMG says I'll pay for the crack in the wall, but that part in the foundation isn't. In the reinforcements, they don't even look at that foundation. That's where the solution is very simple, isn't it? One crack is pay. A plan of approach for the reinforcement, where we also look at the part underground. It's not that hard. It's also a matter of will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u279	I agree with Mrs Beckerman on the issue of reinforcement. But if I make it as simple as Mrs Beckerman is actually doing, and just say to the NCG "from now on, you need to do reinforcements too," if I'm trying to solve it too simple and too simple, then I'm afraid there's another delay in the old reinforcement operation without the foundations. So I agree with Mrs Beckerman. IMG's getting more room. This is due to a change made by Mrs Beckerman herself. I think it was Mrs. Mulder. This gives the IMG more room to deal with foundation damage. I also agree that you should take this with you in strengthening. You must have some idea how to do this. I was in Woltersum. That's where they try this. I'm being very honest. I hope those people don't blame me. During some kind of speeddate, I talked to six people about how the backup's going. One of the six people was satisfied, but the other five weren't. I didn't like that score. That was a municipality in which people actually worked with that one-house-one-plan idea. So it's not easy. I'm telling you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u280	Mrs. Beckerman, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u281	I'll never say it's simple again. I never did. But, of course, here's the crux. The Secretary of State is now saying: if the IMG also needs to strengthen, then that is very difficult. But this is exactly why you have to make one plan for one house. It is very bizarre that there is one organization looking at cosmetic recovery and that there is another organisation looking at computer model reinforcement. This computer model assumes that the house and the foundation are whole, while the house has just had a blow to the head. May I add that the only reason why the foundations in Woltersum are taken away is that the municipality raises up to one and a half tons per house? That's not because of the government, that's despite the government. If the Secretary of State now says that this approach works, make sure that money is paid from the Empire, because it is really scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u282	If Mrs Beckerman thinks that I wanted to suggest that it was because of my good work that it happened in Woltersum, then I should have said that it happens there because it is an active municipality, which was willing to make money available for it. She's absolutely right about that. There is no discussion on that point. In my view, it is precisely in the coalition agreement that we need to strengthen and devise something for these foundations. That is probably where money will have to be made available to the Empire. That seems to me to be a truth like a cow, but now I can't tell you exactly how to do it. I can't tell you how much either. In the run-up to the spring note, I'm gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u283	I have indeed talked about foundations more often, so I want to continue where Mrs Beckerman ended up. Doesn't it just have to do with the protocol and the agreement that it's about earthquake damage, while it should be broader about mining damage? That was a term we had in the law before. In my opinion, it has been improperly used and reduced to earthquake damage. Then you run into it that a house that gets ticked after ticking, but also has to do with all kinds of bottom slopes through natural gas extraction. Then you get something in the foundation that has effect upstairs in the house. You have to fix that over and over again, because you're not adding backup. Then you're gonna put the horse behind the cart. My question is whether the Secretary of State wants to look at it in such a way that we regulate this legislation in such a way that this problem is really resolved. I tabled an amendment to that effect, but that law was dealt with very quickly, so if anything else needs to be done, will the Secretary of State please regulate it legally, so that it will finally be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u284	I am on the assumption that I am clearly an amateur who has just begun to say that this was settled with the amendment. I had to find out exactly whose amendment it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u285	That was Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u286	If Mrs Mulder, as the author of this amendment, says that she is not sure whether it is well arranged, then we should bring it back in a subsequent committee debate. I'll look more closely at it to see if it's settled properly. The way I read it in my documents is that the amendment actually gives the IMG more room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u287	Clear. Then I'm assuming he'll get some money to run it. Can the Secretary of State promise me that? Someone told me that reading the letter felt like a delicious apple pie. I think that was the same way I had the letter. Then you think to yourself: why is it that things are not going well in the end, despite all the good intentions? Mrs Beckerman said the same thing. Has there ever been an analysis? Has anyone ever criticized where things go wrong internally, when everyone has good intentions and good intentions? Is that also something he wants to record with the residents' organizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u288	That last one, for sure. That's exactly the point. By setting me up in Groningen a few days a month, I'm supposed to get a more precise insight into where it goes wrong. What I found in conversations I had with the organizations NCG and IMG is that they are both self-critical at the work they do. That certainly applies to the NCG. At the IMG there is still a strong feeling. I also think because of the figures they are getting along. But with the NCG I actually noticed a feeling of: it really has to happen now. If you ask why it hasn't happened so far, you get a somewhat diffuse answer. I'm just saying it the way they feel. You don't get an answer that you think: oh yes, that's it. That's also why the letter doesn't say what it is. That's gonna take some time. I understand the apple pie feeling is fine in itself, but when you eat apple pie, you end up like me, and that's not the point. It should read more as the healthy salad that eventually leads to a better process. I don't have a solution for that right now. I have the impression myself, but then I'm actually going to repeat the beginning of my speech: there are a lot of good intentions, but those good intentions are all competing with each other. Who just said cold spaghetti? By the way, that's disgusting. It's like getting into a plate of spaghetti. So I can imagine that the residents are already thinking: well, what's happening to me here now that I'm getting someone by for the fifth time... That's an imperfect answer, but this is the answer for now. I have three things to say about perspective. Mr Van Wijngaarden actually asked about the future. Let me say a few words about that. Too little has been said so far. There's still a lot of money left from the Groningen National Program. There's a new chairman. He's planning to act decisively. I was at his installation last week. He'll really try to work with that. The things Mr Van Wijngaarden mentioned are part of this, such as tourist infrastructure and heritage. The doubling of the N33, the ports and Airport Eelde is simply the opening. In the end, a large part of the funds provided by the cabinet will be dropped in Groningen. These funds could be for physical infrastructure, to which Mr van Wijngaarden refers, but also for energy infrastructure within the framework of climate policy. That is not what this debate is for, but there is potential there when it comes to hydrogen, et cetera. I assume that this will also bring down resources in the province. Finally, he asked about SMEs. A first SME table was organised in September '21 in the presence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. At Stut-en-Steun.............................................................................................................................................................. I will draw particular attention to this on the basis of this signal on my next visit. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u289	Thank you. I propose to the Members that we also do the second term of office for dinner suspension. After the dinner suspension we do the second term on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u290	Beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u291	In any case, there is one Member who makes it clear that this is not a good proposal. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u292	I have a few more questions to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u293	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u294	I should like to start by apologizing to the Members of the House for having to wait a little longer. The question I have left is, for example, whether or not the delay in the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek is a legal unforeseen circumstance. Did the cabinet break the contracts with Germany? Have all the steps taken in the decision to stop the gas extraction been taken? A question that is also open is about the fact that we now have a mild winter. So less gas will have to be extracted. My specific question is whether the Secretary of State can tell us how much gas has been extracted since 1 October 2021. Following my first question about the nitrogen plant and whether this is a legal unforeseen circumstance: is it legally possible to extract gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u295	I had an answer to that question. It's somewhere in this set. If Mrs Van der Plas is okay with it, I will answer it in a second term. There must be an exact answer to that. I did. I'd look it up for you, too, but it'll take five minutes. I'll just get back to you in second term. I thought I had answered the question about the contracts and the mild winter. Once again, export agreements have been made. I don't care if you call that contracts. These export agreements are not only with Germany, but also with Belgium and France. It has always taken into account that gas extraction would continue until about the end of this decade. Because we have reduced our gas extraction so much more quickly, Minister Wiebes during that period, those contracts are still ongoing, so we will continue to deliver to those countries. Only agreements have been made with those countries to reduce their demand for low-caloric gas. Germany, for example, is working on a very large switch-over programme. You understand that the German households using low-caloric gas are located next to Groningen, in that area of Germany. There's a big program going to shut down. The same is happening in France and Belgium. I hope that will answer that question. Then the soft winter. As I have just said, the mild winter does indeed affect the gas demand as it is now developing and thus the amount of extra extraction that might have to take place. I cannot give you the answer to the question we pumped up from 1-1-2021. I'll have to check it out. I just don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u296	From 1 October 2021, because until then we can look back. But I do want to make a point of principle. That's what I said in the first term. The Secretary of State is giving a technical and substantive answer to the question of what is going on with these contracts, so I shall just mention it for the sake of convenience. But my question was: when the decision was taken to stop mining gas in Groningen, was the cabinet aware that there was a supply obligation to countries? I would like to give Germany an example. Was that known back then? If so, why was that not communicated to the Chamber? It was said that it could happen that we still have to make use of it in an extremely cold winter or when large installations have a malfunction. But now it turned out at the end of the year, more or less: oh yes, we also have Germany. I think it is a fundamental question why it was not told to the Chamber at the time. Otherwise, it reeks of withholding information. I don't want to go that far, which is why I'm asking. I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u297	Before I try to answer Mrs van der Plas' question, one more thing: those deliveries to foreign countries are now making sure that extra gas will have to be extracted this gas year. Mrs. Van der Plas knows that sum. It's not true that those contracts or deliveries abroad have anything to do with how fast you can close in Groningen. I thought I was trying to answer that very precisely, at the very beginning of my speech. 'Cause you're not gonna be delivering from Groningen anymore, but you're gonna be delivering high-caloric gas. From the fact that we deliver to abroad, you cannot conclude that we can therefore close later in Groningen. Only this point, the additional question from Germany, is correct. That was unexpected. That's right. That's one. Two. I really don't know the answer to the question about 2017. I don't know where I was back then. I was an official at the Treasury Department at the time, to be exact. I don't know if it wasn't reported to the Chamber at the time that there were appointments. I can hardly imagine that it wasn't reported at the time, because it wasn't secret at all that we delivered to foreign countries. I should like to check for Mrs Van der Plas whether that was sent or reported at the time. But it's not like the cabinet brought the gas extraction to zero and then later thought: oh, that's too bad, we also have contracts with abroad, so now it's impossible. Those two things are separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u298	I would indeed like to know, because all the pieces I read always say: in extreme winter or major failures to large installations it could still be that... But there is no talk of deliveries. While at the end of last year the former minister wrote a long letter about it, in which he says: I have been talking to Germany about what this is about. So that could also be another reason why we're winning extra gas. Otherwise, the letter and the whole Heiland story wouldn't have fallen so raw on the roof with the people in Groningen. That's kind of falling out of the sky, but why isn't that all the time mentioned as the third reason why we should still be able to win gas? Then you just have open, transparent and honest communication to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u299	Again, not because I don't want to say it, but I just really don't know. I don't know if it didn't happen either. But I keep saying: if Groningen is on the watch flaming or if Groningen is closed, even that extra question from Germany, Belgium and France, or wherever it comes from, doesn't matter anymore for winning gas in Groningen. Only this year you will see exactly what Mrs Van der Plas is describing, namely that it does matter, because it is now a factor. I understand the questions very well. Her question is: why wasn't that factor mentioned earlier, because I don't see it in the documents? Just let me make sure that's true. Perhaps there are other pieces, which Mrs Van der Plas did not happen to see. Furthermore, I do not know the answer to the question why that would not have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u300	The Secretary of State has already said that a letter will be sent to the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State take this aspect into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u301	Mr President, I am going to do my best. But I repeat my point about those officials who are supposed to be working instead of writing letters. But I'm going to do my best, because information to the Chamber is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u302	Mrs. Van der Plas says she'd rather hear it here. In second term, I guess. But I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u303	No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u304	As far as possible and otherwise in writing, but I can already see the Secretary of State's gestures that this is not going to work. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. We are now starting with the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman. And I hope, I say, that we can limit the number of motions together. That has nothing to do with the content of the debate, but simply in a general sense it would be nice that if a commitment was given, there would be no motion for a resolution. It would be nice if we could table fewer motions, unless, of course, they have a function as a whole. This is also on behalf of the Van der Staaij working group, I would add. I call Mrs Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u305	Is Box-K ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u306	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u307	Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u308	Mr. Chairman. What touches me in the debate was that the Prime Minister said: I did not make any promises in 2019. And that while it was claimed here in the Chamber: solving is a matter of honor. What also struck me was that Mr Filipino showed that he wanted to move forward. There is still very little concrete and therefore three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in January thousands of people had to wait hours in long queues to apply for a grant for improvement/sustainability;]] [[Considering that within a few days the Cabinet will release 250 million to make up for this;]] [[Considers that since that day it has been deafeningly silent;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a plan of action before 1 March on when people can expect the grant to be sent to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the past some Groningers received much less value reduction compensation from NAM than they would receive under the current scheme;]] [[Considering that in November 2021 the Cabinet cleared 25 million to compensate these people;]] [[calls on the government, before 1 March, to send a plan of action stating when people can expect the addition of compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Kröger, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kops, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-950]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kops, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-951]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u309	Last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to improve policy and policy implementation by delivering concrete results based on: one household, one plan, one contact point;]] [[Whereas State surveillance of mines and civil society organisations has been advising on a crisis approach for years;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a crisis approach before the summer in which "one-stop-shop, one-house, one-plan" is at the heart of the foundation;]] [[calls on the government to urgently arrange capacity for construction so that houses that already have a plan can be started immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Kröger, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kops, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-952]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u311	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u312	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State mentioned apple cakes, healthy salads and cold spaghetti, but if you're looking at Groningen, most of all I have to think about lab stocking. I don't know who knows that, but it's better to eat than to watch. It's a bit of a Hanseatic port court. Google it! You're scared to death. It's good to eat; I've had it last in Hamburg. But I think the Secretary of State did just fine today. He has given clear answers and he has also clearly shown that he dares to distance himself from things that have gone wrong in the past. That doesn't change the fact that I don't think of the NAM as the Secretary of State. We also had a fierce debate about it. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas NAM intends to buy off its responsibility for damages and reinforcement in Groningen;]] [[Whereas it is unknown to what extent the total damage is incurred and earthquakes are likely to continue for years, possibly for decades;]] [[requests the Cabinet to recover all damages and reinforcement costs for which the NAM can be held liable up to the last cent on the NAM and not to settle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-953]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u313	And then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are many regulations in Groningen, with arbitrary reasons for drawing the line as it has been drawn;]] [[Whereas this leads to legal inequality and tensions in villages;]] [[calls on the cabinet of people to go out and ensure that people in similar situations are entitled to the same arrangements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Kröger, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-954]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u314	The last motion refers to the letter sent by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u315	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u316	And I'll send you another written set of questions about a few specific situations in Ten Boer and Delfzijl, because I can't get to that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u317	Okay, all right. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u318	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I think that many people who have followed the debate feel a turn and a different tone. That creates expectations just like promises, so I hope the Secretary of State will live up to those expectations. I sincerely hope so. With regard to the extraction of gas and all the uncertainty that has arisen about this, it was not so clear in the letter "I understand that the Secretary of State says very clearly: I insist that Groningen will pass on to the flame in 2022, given that the nitrogen plant is finished. We are following this closely. I have the next motion regarding the shutdown plan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the difficult situation with regard to the gas market, one of the measures contained in the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan has not yet begun to be implemented;]] [[Whereas implementation of the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan ensures security of supply for households and other essential customers such as hospitals;]] [[Whereas the safety of the Groningers should not be compromised in ensuring security of supply for households and essential customers;]] [[points out that in the event of an increase in gas extraction in Groningen there is a gas crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to begin at least the first step of the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-955]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u320	Yeah, you too. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u321	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas depletion of the Groningen field is accompanied by loss of pressure;]] [[Whereas pressure loss leads to seismic activity;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the maintenance of pressure, e.g. by injection of water or CO, allowing safe gas extraction, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas prices have exploded and our dependence on foreign gas has increased;]] [[Whereas natural gas is a green form of energy;]] [[calls on the government to continue to extract gas from the Groningen field and at the same time generously compensate the Groningers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make available a significant part of future gas revenues from the Groningen field for investments in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-956]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-957]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-958]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u322	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to develop a monitoring flame scenario in which at least so much gas is produced from the Groninger gas field to maintain the existing installations and infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-959]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u323	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good land, sea and air connections may be important for the economic potential of Groningen;]] [[whereas the ports of Groningen are the only ports of national interest not accessible by a four-lane road and Eelde as an airport still has room to grow;]] [[invites the government to discuss with the region the wishes of the region about better connections by land, sea and air, and digitally, and to engage in the implementation of the Future Agenda, the Just Transition Fund and the National Programme Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents and entrepreneurs indicate the need to speed up the reinforcement operation and improve information provision;]] [[Whereas, according to experts, an area-by-area reinforcement is faster than an address-by-address reinforcement;]] [[calls on the cabinet to have the implementing bodies with relevant residents and entrepreneurs in the region explore how a more territorial approach to the reinforcement operation can contribute to the desired acceleration and how the information needs of stakeholders can be better served,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on 6 February in the Pointer programme, Inspector General Kockelkoren of the State Monitoring of Mines stated that additional gas extraction from the Groningen field was "a really bad idea';]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to find alternatives for the purpose of partially or totally refraining from a decision on additional gas extraction, even if this means that the additional revenues will become virtually nil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-960]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Segers and Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-961]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-962]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u324	Perhaps Mr Van Wijngaarden needs the motion in front of him, or he does it out of his head. In the quickness I heard "total or partial." But what does that mean "partly" refrain from increasing gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u325	The less extra needs to be won, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u326	So the motion gives the room to "just a little bit more" to win anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u327	Or not to win at all. I would suggest that I clarify the motion before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u328	That's very nice. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u329	Mr. Chairman. 2019 would be the year of implementation. That didn't work. By the way, it's not 2020 either. 2021 either. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a crisis approach and to ensure that 2022 will be the year of implementation and that those affected will be given what they are entitled to,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-963]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u330	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to increase gas extraction in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-964]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u331	The third. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop exporting Groningen gas immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-965]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u333	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for the answer. I believe that, as several colleagues have said, there is indeed a new sound, a new fresh wind, a new effort and a new honesty, I hope too. I am glad that Mrs Van der Plas asked about the letters surrounding the decision that there will be no new gas extraction, unless there is a severe winter. I'm glad you did, too. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement states that "The extraction of gas in Groningen will be phased out as soon as possible, in accordance with plan, because the safety of Groningers is paramount';]] [[noting that all major industrial consumers must be free of the Groningen gas by 1 October of this year;]] [[noting that at least six of the nine major chemical and energy groups, including Eneco, Uniper, Vattenfall and Nobian, are not going to meet this deadline;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the ban on Groningen gas for large consumers in the context of Groningen's safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement states: "The extraction of gas in Groningen is being phased out as quickly as possible, as the safety of Groningers is paramount';]] [[Noting that State supervision of the Mines has already declared to Pointer: "From my perspective on the safety of the people in Groningen, the extraction of gas up is a really bad idea" because "insufficient houses have been strengthened and many residents have not yet been told whether their house meets safety standards";]] [[noting that the coalition agreement also confirms that this is also a matter of confidence: "The coming years need a strong effort to restore the confidence of the Groningen people";]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is not appropriate to look up the limits of the margins of what is safe in this dossier;]] [[calls on the government at least to ensure that gas extraction does not increase, in accordance with the promises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kröger, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-966]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kröger, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Simons and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-967]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u335	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u336	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u337	Madam President. I would like to thank both directors for their clear and hopeful answers. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, so far, 2,298 homes in Groningen have been strengthened, while it is estimated that 13,000 homes still need to be addressed;]] [[Whereas it is not completed at this rate by 2028;]] [[Whereas administrative processes should follow the primary process of the National Coordinator Groningen and should not delay the strengthening of housing;]] [[calls on the Government to give NCG project leaders a mandate to deal with financial differences and additional work in the daily operation of reinforcement work, in order to accelerate the strengthening of housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Beckerman and Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-968]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u338	The previous motion was signed by almost all the Members who took part in this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this year's expected higher gas extraction increases security uncertainty;]] [[noting that many homeowners have been in uncertainty for years or how their home will be strengthened due to insecurity caused by earthquake damage;]] [[Whereas, according to the University of Groningen, a strengthening process leads to poorer health and stress-related complaints such as palpitations, dizziness, irritation and fatigue among homeowners;]] [[invites the government, within six months, to provide all residents with an insight into the planning of safety assessments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Boulakjar, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Beckerman and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-969]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u339	The previous motion was also signed by almost all colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u340	You're gonna have to read the names.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u341	Boulakjar, Agnes Mulder, Van Wijngaarden, Nijboer, Van Raan, Kröger, Eerdmans, Van der Plas, Van Haga, Beckerman and Kops. That's the same list as the other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Paternotte c.s. motion (35788, No. 127) should be carried out;]] [[asks the government that in the event that the motion is not complied with and that more gas is unhoped for than we hope and want, the Secretary of State will find a way to get those funds back to Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-970]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u342	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u343	I still have a question about this motion. It's kind of bothering me a little bit. Everyone doesn't want to win that extra gas. Then this sounds a bit like Groningen will get less money if the gas is not won anymore. That's kind of my dilemma. Because you really don't want it and I think it's such a... it's also a relatively limited amount when you look at what's happened over the past few years. That's kind of my dilemma. What answer does Mr Segers give?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u344	I get the feeling and I actually like the way the Secretary of State said it: I'm moderately interested in that option. But I am very interested in the conversations with the Germans and large users to see how we can ensure that gas extraction eventually goes down. So I'm also moderately interested in that option. I would just very much like a statement of principle. I believe that the gentleman with the difficult job name will be very difficult, but this motion will help the Secretary of State to say in the discussion with the Minister of Finance: all is well and well, but if there really is more money coming in, then it has to go back to where it comes from. That is the basic statement I would like to make. I hope Mr Nijboer will say: I too am moderately interested in this option, but you know what, I support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u345	I'd almost say hold it for a second. That really helps me. I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u346	Good. Let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u347	Thank you, Mr Segers. I give the floor to Mr Boulakjar of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of me, too, I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an entire generation grows up with fear of earthquakes and uncertainty surrounding recovery and reinforcement;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the physical damage to houses, we should also be aware of the mental damage in children;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a plan on how to prevent mental consequences for children as much as possible and how to help children with pre-existing problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boulakjar, Mr Segers, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-971]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u349	The second motion is about the NAM. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that victims should no longer have to wait for damages to be dealt with;]] [[noting that the Institute for Mining Damage in Groningen (IMG) considers the possibility of acceleration of all liability by the Dutch Petroleum Company (NAM) at once;]] [[Whereas the NAM must pay for the damage caused in any way;]] [[calls on the cabinet not to take irreversible steps in talks with the NAM and to inform the Chamber of how these talks are conducted;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to exercise restraint in the sharing of information which may weaken the State's legal position vis-à-vis the NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boulakjar and Mr Van Wijngaarden.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-972]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u350	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more use will be made of the gas storage at Langelo and at Grijpskerk for the further reduction of gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[considers that this should not lead to the export of Groningen's problems to these areas;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the application of evidence for, on and around gas deposits, equal treatment of residents at the IMG or the Mining Damage Commission and independent monitoring are necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the presumption of evidence in the areas surrounding the gas stores Grayskerk and Langelo and to ensure independent monitoring and equal and fair treatment of residents in these areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NAM should evaluate every six years the most appropriate way to process the waste water from Schoonebeek;]] [[calls on the Government to include a circular alternative to waste water injection as a preferred alternative in the evaluation and to develop further as a matter of urgency, including support in the regions concerned, so that agreements can be reached before the summer, in consultation with NAM, which will include an end date for waste water injection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-973]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Boulakjar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-974]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u351	And then I have some general points, Mr President. I have made this contribution on behalf of the SGP. I forgot to say that in the first term. I would like to thank the Independent Councilman Groningen for his work. And I would like to see money on the amendment on the foundation. Maybe the Secretary of State can still respond to that. I compliment him on the fact that he's going to live in part of Groningen and want to be among the people. I can see that, I can see that, and I'm really happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u352	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u353	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on waste water injections. The motion calls on the government to come before the summer with a date for stopping the waste water injections, while Mrs Mulder has an approved chamber motion calling on the Secretary of State to stop the waste water injections. We, as GroenLinks, were very pleased that this motion was there and we were very disappointed that this Secretary of State does not really want to carry out that motion and to reject it. How am I supposed to read this motion? Does Mrs Mulder share my question to the Secretary of State to simply carry out that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u354	Yes, I still think that this motion should be carried out, but at the same time I see that this Secretary of State states in his letter that he wants to look at the preferred alternatives. I hear from the region that in the definition of the evaluation these preferred alternatives do not automatically appear. That means that we are going to be delayed anyway. I don't want that delay. I want to get rid of those wastewater injections as soon as possible. That's why I'm filing this motion today. That's what I mean by this motion. I still want my motion to be fully implemented, but at least I read in that letter from the Secretary of State that he wants the alternative. I'm seeing delays, and I don't want them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u355	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u356	On the one hand, the motion outlines that balancing framework and, on the other hand, the end date of the waste water injections. Does not Mrs Mulder undermine her own motion, which simply says: it must be stopped now? I therefore find that part of the motion problematic, because then we are suddenly going to move for six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u357	I get those comments, but I don't want any wastewater injections in Drenthe either. And now the NAM director in Rossum said: oh, we'll just do it in Drenthe! We know it's very difficult to stop in Twente if there's no alternative in Drenthe. Then everything holds hold of each other. I want to move on. I want to make sure we stop those wastewater injections, so we're gonna clean up. That's what the CDA wants. I want to avoid delay in the whole process, so anything I can speed up, I'll speed it up. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u358	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u359	Thank you. Thank you for the answers. No motions from our side. We did draw a few with it. I think there are some very good motions in this debate, which is a good debate. What I also like is that you're gonna have two days' office. I don't think you're gonna live there in Groningen. But see if you can come back at night. Maybe that's more the question. The support point Stut-en-Steun is of course an important support point in Groningen. It's a good thing you're going out with Kees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u360	Henk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u361	Henk, I'm sorry. That was Henk. It is a good thing that you are showing this way in this region. One question remains to be answered from our side. It was about the general's pardon. I asked you about that. I'd like the answer. Finally, our encouragement to move towards Germany in particular. Germany has problems with its own gas supply and will certainly not be easy to run over, but that does not help the Groningers. So please make a hard effort from the Netherlands there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u362	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u363	I would just like to say that as a member of the Van der Staaij committee, I have decided not to make any motions to curb the diarrhea of motion, the word is very often mentioned today and that I have very much liked to sign with other very good motions. Well, that's it. Short but powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u364	Yeah, it's delicious. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u365	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still EUR 300 to 1,000 billion of natural gas in the Groningen natural gas field;]] [[noting that Groningers have been waiting for compensation for years;]] [[calls on the government to continue gas extraction and to compensate Groninger generously,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Climate Agreement provides that the entire built environment must be removed from the gas by 2050;]] [[noting that all projects to free natural gas from housing have so far failed hopelessly;]] [[Whereas the costs associated with the removal of natural gas from buildings are astronomical;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from making buildings free of natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas gas taxation has increased enormously over the last 10 years;]] [[Whereas the price of gas has reached record levels;]] [[Whereas both factors have contributed to the exceptional increase in the energy account;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has now temporarily reduced the taxation of electricity by 60% in order to compensate for the high energy bill;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the energy tax on gas by at least the same percentage in order to reduce the energy bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-975]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-976]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-977]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u366	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u367	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I'll suspend the meeting for about 45 minutes and then we'll start with the second term on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u368	The next item is the continuation of the debate on gas extraction in Groningen. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer a single question and to give his appreciation of a number of motions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u369	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to reply to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Is there a legal unforeseen circumstance at the nitrogen factory in Zuidbroek? The answer is yes. The Gas Act and the Mining Act provide that if there are deviations from the gas estimate, GTS must report that. The delay of Zuidbroek is such an anomaly. This is a reason why I can intervene in the current gas year. I thought Mrs. Van der Plas had another one. How much gas has been extracted so far? From 1 October to 31 December, just under 1 billion cubic metres were won. That is the period we know about, I say to Mrs van der Plas. How much gas is left in the field? I would nevertheless like to try to avoid the note that is worth so much money, and Mr Van Haga mentioned it. If we stop, there will be between 450 and 500 billion cube left behind. At the current price, I say this with emphasis, because Mr Van Haga understands that if the gas price changes, it will be around EUR 400 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u370	This requires a certain level of expertise. However, I would like to be confirmed in writing that this is 350 to 500 billion cube, with underlying documents, so that we know exactly where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u371	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. At least it will be in the debate. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u372	I'll check to see if I can make it even more precise and back it up and then Mr Van Haga gets a note. That's what he wanted, so we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u373	That may be a very short note, but indeed with the assessment. Because there's supposed to be a P10, a P50 and a P90. Then you have the full assessment of the field at a rate and then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u374	The Secretary of State has promised that there will be a note. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u375	I would like a letter on the argument on the nitrogen plant whose construction is delayed and on what would be a legally unforeseen circumstance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u376	I would like to send a letter, but it says exactly what I have said. It's also in the Acts. I'd be happy to send you a letter, but you'll get the same text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u377	Well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u378	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u379	That is easy: yes, it is a legally unforeseen circumstance. I would like to see the basis for that. It seems to me that this debate is taking a little too long. I think it's pretty easy to make a letter out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u380	I do it and I say one more time that we all want officials to deal with policy and implementation, but that every letter takes time. So I'm gonna make a collectible with all these things in it. I'd be happy to. It is not unwillingness, I say to Mrs Van der Plas, but I am also trying to make the new governance style clear in the fact that we must be primarily engaged in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u381	Mrs. Van der Plas just wants a little more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u382	I want the evidence in the letter. All due respect for the work of the officials, but they do not live in damaged houses in an earthquake zone. I'm standing right now in front of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u383	Me too. Thank you. A general pardon for all people in Groningen means that damage is no longer recorded and that the connection to gas extraction is no longer checked. With that we have a problem with the stories of the damage on the NAM. I am not in favour of that. Which brings me to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u384	Before you continue... I want to warn you, Mrs. Agnes Mulder, not a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u385	I have asked about the amendment, whether it was sufficient for the foundation and whether there is enough money. Can the Secretary of State give an answer to that? I think it is all right for him to go back in the same letter on how he estimates that or that he will do it at a later date, because he will keep all the arrangements under review. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u386	I think that's better. If all the regulations have been reviewed, I will come up with one letter after the spring note and I will take it with me. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the motions. Mrs Beckerman's motion to item No. 950 calls on the government to draw up a plan of action for the grant before 1 March. I can't make it. In this form, I must discourage the motion, but if Mrs Beckerman would like to make 1 May of 1 March, I can implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u387	I'll see if Mrs. Beckerman is willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u388	I'm gonna have to look at the co-subs. May 1st?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u389	May 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u390	Labor Day. Then I don't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u391	Especially for Mrs Beckerman, I chose May 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u392	If everyone agrees, it's May 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u393	Can you file the amended motion? Then the motion gets judgment room, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u394	Yeah, that's right. Mrs Beckerman's motion to item No. 951 calls for a plan of action to reduce value on 1 March. If I may read the motion in such a way that I inform the Chamber before 1 March of what steps need to be taken to make this arrangement operational, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u395	Let me look at Mrs Beckerman, because that is something other than what is in the request. Do you agree with what the Secretary of State has to say about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u396	Do I have to say it again? Was it too fast? We can also interpret the motion in this way: a plan of action means that I indicate what steps need to be taken to get the scheme operational. That's how I interpret the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u397	Of course I can live well with that, but then I expect that there is some kind of date in it. People have been waiting a long time for it. It should not be a kind of plan in the category of: it will be the year of execution and unfortunately...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u398	I see the Secretary of State nodding that he can meet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u399	The answer is yes. We'll put a date in it. Otherwise, a plan of action has little value. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u400	And the motion in part No. Ninety-five?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u401	Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 952 I must dissuade, but for a reason. I'm gonna explain that. It says: "Asks the government to come up with a crisis approach before the summer, where one window, one house, one plan is at the heart and in which the foundation is taken into account." I can't do that. I'm not getting one crisis approach for the summer with all these elements in it. I did intend to send letters to the Chamber about these separate elements. The question is whether Mrs Beckerman and I disagree. That is my question to the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u402	Here we disagree, because one window, one house, one plan doesn't work if you don't take the foundation. That's part of your house. If you first make a plan for the rest of the house and then for the foundation, it doesn't make much sense for the injured. There are villages, such as Krewerd, where the whole village is ready to start, and where six houses have to wait six of the whole village because there is nothing yet known about the foundations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u403	We agreed it could be a problem if you tried to put those foundations into it. That's what's literally happening right now. In this form, I'm going to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u404	The motion in part No. 952 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u405	But I'm gonna do the contents. Then there is Mr Nijboer's motion for a resolution. 953, requesting non-negotiation with the NAM. This has been the subject of an extensive and pleasant debate. There are dilemmas outlined. I'm going to discourage the motion in this form. I agree with the vast majority, but "and not to settle" is just one step too far. Then I might as well not have a conversation. I'm gonna have that conversation. There's gonna be another motion coming from someone else that looks like this and I'd like to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u406	The motion in part No. 953 is not recommended. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 954.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u407	I need a lot of words in the motions today, but that's because they're all close to what I want and can't do. The motion in part No. 954 asks the cabinet of people to go out and, if they are in similar situations, to ensure that they are entitled to the same arrangements. If I give judgment to the Chamber and the motion is adopted, I will get people who think they are in a similar situation, but where the regulation is just as different. This is exactly what we're talking about. If Mr. Nijboer could change the operative part to "request to promote"... Yes sorry, it listens closely. The point is that everything I promise can have legal consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u408	Let me take a look at Mr Nijboer to see if he is prepared to amend his motion. "Promoting."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u409	You can see it as a problem that it can have legal consequences, but that is what we are here for, of course. We help people, and there are consequences. I would like to look at the wording, but I find 'promoting' quite non-binding. For Tuesday's votes, I'm gonna take a look at something in between. The Secretary of State is coming with a letter. I'm trying to promote a little bit that the people who live on one side of the street and the people who live on the other side of the street get about the same, because otherwise this leads to a lot of discontent. I think the Secretary of State wants this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u410	Then we agree that the motion in part No. 954 in this form is not recommended. But there's gonna be another modified form. I would ask the Secretary of State to give an appreciation in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u411	Yeah, if there's gonna be an adapted form.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u412	For next Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u413	Sure. Sure. The motion in part No. 955 on the shutdown plan, I'm not sure. We have discussed this extensively with Mrs Kröger. However, I am prepared to include the elements of the switch-off plan in the overall overview we are making in the context of Paternotte. But in this form, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u414	It is about starting the first step out of the ladder of measures. This first measure concerns the call for people to consume less gas. That seems to me to be in a situation where we have an issue with gas extraction, we have to gain more potential and we further undermine Groninger's confidence, along with a climate crisis, not an unnecessary luxury. So I would really hope that the Secretary of State and the Minister for Climate Affairs will be happy to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u415	The problem is not going to work happily, certainly not with the Minister for Climate. The problem is that I'm working on it and then we're back in square one to push the gas extraction back to the old level as much as possible. I will also say something about the financial motion later. Any motion that precedes this problem I am currently going to discourage or ask to hold. You may also hold him until the moment the problem really arises. But I find it very strange to say now in a warm winter: lower the heating a degree. That's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u416	Mrs Kröger, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u417	In what context could anything come out of the Secretary of State's analysis in which it would not be a good idea, not a no-regret measure, to call on people to use less gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u418	In the context that this is part of a debt instrument, I have lost the exact name of the crisis and recovery plan which is intended for a situation in which there is an acute direct gas shortage. You're gonna take one measure out of that. That is the discussion we have had before. But if Mrs Kröger wishes to continue the motion until there is clarity about the level of gas extraction...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u419	I see Mrs Kröger nods yes. The motion in part No. 955 is under arrest. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u420	I would also like to ask for the motion on item No. Mr Van Haga. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Haga on his report. I have already promised to send the ongoing investigation to your Chamber by this summer at the latest. I ask the applicant to await this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u421	Let me take a look at Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u422	I think that's a completely different investigation. This is a study to see if we can reproduce in combination with water, CO or nitrogen injection. In doing so, we maintain the pressure of the field, allowing us to produce safely. This allows us to... You just said 400 billion, but it could be 1,000 billion. We can still produce them. That's for the benefit of the Groningen people and of all of us. If that's the investigation, I'm prepared to hold the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna put him in a mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u423	As far as I've been informed, that investigation is about this question. That is the investigation the Prime Minister referred to in his first term. The research is from a mining knowledge group, something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u424	Mr. Van Haga, are you prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u425	No, I don't think this is exactly the research question. So no, let's just put this to the vote. If you're gonna do the same research, I'm gonna be happy about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u426	Then you're still happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u427	If the motion in part No. 956 shall not be detained...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u428	Then I'm gonna tip him off. The motion in part No. 957 I read as continuing to win gas. The cabinet doesn't want that, so we advise against it. The same is true of the motion in part No. 958 by Mr Van Haga. The same applies to the motion in part No. 959 about keeping it longer on the watchflame. No, the cabinet wants to stop winning gas as soon as possible. The motion in part No. 960 Van Wijngaarden asks the government to discuss the region's wishes for better connections by country, sea and air with the region and to engage in the implementation of the Future Agenda, the Just Transition Fund and the Groningen National Programme. Judgment Room. The same applies to the motion in part No. 961 van Van Wijngaarden. It invites the government to have the executive bodies with relevant residents and entrepreneurs in the region explore how a more area-by-area approach to the reinforcement operation can contribute to acceleration. I believe that this has been mentioned more widely in the Chamber, in many contributions. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 962 calls for every effort to be made to prevent gas extraction. This motion is very similar to Fathernotte's. I would also like to give this Chamber judgment. The motion in part No. 963 of Mr Kops of the PVV calls for the year 2022 to be the year of implementation with a crisis approach. I'd like to give that motion a Chamber of Commons. I think that Mr Kops means, by means of a crisis approach, what I have mentioned: an eye for the human dimension, rapid implementation, clear communication and making sure that something really happens. If that's the case, then I consider the assignment to support what I'm already planning. Judge Room, then. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I cannot guarantee that there will be no increase in gas extraction. I can't stop exporting Groningen gas, so the motion in part no. 965 I must also advise against. Then the motion to part No. 966 by Mr Van Raan. We had a discussion on this during the debate. I myself cannot maintain the ban on Groningen gas for large consumers. That's what the supervisor has to do. With this operative part, I must advise against the motion, but I thought we had the same objective, namely that it should be done. However, I must advise against this operative part, because I am not going over it, that is the ACM, the Authority Consumer and Market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u429	Thanks for the appreciation. I'd like to adjust the operative part so that the government can...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u430	... can give judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u431	Yeah, judgment room can give. Of course, I can't order the ACM, but I'm looking for a formulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u432	Yes. Then I would ask the Secretary of State to give an appreciation of this motion, because we do not yet know the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u433	The motion in part No. Mr Van Raan's 967 calls on the government to ensure that gas extraction does not increase, as promised. I don't recommend that motion. I can't promise that, but Mr Van Raan knows the stakes. The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, 968 of the Christian Union on the mandate of the project leaders at the NCG receives a ruling from the Chamber. That sounds like a good plan. The motion in part No. Mr Segers' 969 calls for all residents within six months of the reinforcement operation to understand the planning on security. I think that's a good signal. Judgment Room. Then I come to the motion on part No. 970, about which much has been said. It is a motion by Mr Segers and Mrs Mulder. I would ask the authors to hold the motion. We've shared a lot of things about this. The most important argument is that we do not yet know whether extra gas should be extracted. I think it would be wiser to put this motion to the vote if that is clear, but that is up to the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u434	I would just like to look at Mr Segers if he has the motion in part No. 970 wants to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u435	Thank you. I am also thinking of the interruption of Mr Nijboer, who had the same feelings. The Secretary of State has spoken about it in the same way. It is clear that this intention remains and that this commitment remains. We will have to wait and see if it does come as a surprise. We shall then discuss this again. We'll hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u436	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u437	The motion in part No. 971 by Mr Boulakjar on mental consequences for children, an important point, I am happy to give Chamber judgment. The same applies to the motion in part No. 972 by Mr Boulakjar. It was about the negotiations with the NAM. The operative part asks the cabinet not to take irreversible steps in talks with the NAM and to inform the Chamber of how these talks are conducted. I'd be happy to. I've promised you that before. The motion in part No. 973 is about reversing the burden of proof in Griepskerk. That is a bit ahead of the proposal that still needs to be put forward around Gijpskerk. I shall nevertheless give the motion judgment, Chamber, because I simply agree that this is actually a sine qua non condition to find support for the use of Gripping Church. But it's ahead of the proposal I'm coming to the Chamber with. I could also ask for the motion to be held, but that does not reflect the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u438	You've already said "Room of Judgment."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u439	Well, at least it's inside. The question is when the proposal will come to the Chamber. When it comes to legislation and the proposal must be a solution for Groningen, it must of course not take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u440	I don't know. I do know that in my pieces it says "very soon." My officials are listening. I hope I get an answer soon. Then I'll give it to you at the end of this term. Then the motion to part No. 974 by Mrs Mulder on a circular alternative to wastewater injection. I think we're going to talk a lot about Twente and the wastewater injection. My intention is, by the way, entirely in line with that of the Chamber. It is a question of safety there. I have tried in my letter to indicate the difficult position the government is in here. But I can live well with this motion, so judge Chamber. Forum for Democracy requests in the motion on item No. 975 to compensate the Groningen generously and continue gas extraction. That's not the cabinet line. Dissuade. Abandonment of the removal of natural gas from homes is not at all the line of the cabinet. The motion in part No. So, 976 is something I have to dissuade. Then reduce the energy tax on gas by 60%. Actually, that's my old job. I think I can relate to the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Finance, and they don't think this is a great idea. The motion in part No. That's why I'm trying to dissuade 977. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u441	Let me see if there is an answer to Mrs Agnes Mulder's question. Then we're really through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u442	By the 14th, I suspect February. Well, I guess so. That's the decision about Gripskerk. The decision on suspicion of evidence requires a separate legislative amendment, says my official here. It's February 14th indeed. There will be an update about the surroundings for the summer, but February 14th will be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u443	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Prime Minister, I thank the Secretary of State, I thank the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u444	We're going to vote next week on the motions that have been tabled. I thank everyone.
