ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery, the people who are following the sitting at a distance, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Members of Parliament. The next item is the debate on the Amendment of the Bankruptcy Act to improve the flow of municipal debt relief to the legal debt restructuring scheme of natural persons (35915). There are seven speakers, with Mrs Kat first. But before I give her the floor, I would like to say that Mr Harry Bevers has a happy moment today on behalf of the VVD. He's making his maiden speech. You know the rules of the game. It means no interruptions. I will suspend briefly after Mr Bevers' speech for congratulations. Having said that, we're gonna get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mrs Kat, you have the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, the number of admissions to the Debt Reduction Act has decreased. In 2021, just over 2,000 people were admitted. This is a decrease of 23% compared to 2020. Never before have there been so few people in debt restructuring. It is the lowest number since the start of the law in 1998. It is an uncomfortable observation at a time when the number of households with problematic debt is skyrocketing. Over 600,000 households are involved. And it's completely uncomfortable when you consider that in 93% of cases, the Law on Debt Remodelling gives natural persons a clean slate. So we have an instrument in our hands to quickly guide these households to a debt-free future, but we are using it less and less often. In the meantime, people remain in a hopeless situation. Because within the friendly path, only a small part of the debt solution is found. A large part of the people linger for a long time in budget coaching, management or other preliminaries. All important work, but often no way out of debt. In the meantime, people's lives stand still. We know what debts do to people. They often have health problems, both physically and psychologically, because of stress, they have a greater risk of job loss and they have no room to invest in training. Both children and parents often experience a limited future perspective due to debt. In the short term, debt can lead to less well-being and more social exclusion, in the longer term to the deterioration of school performance and to problem behaviour. Our system of debt relief is not capable of providing people with problematic debt with a quick perspective. The road to a clean slate is like "an obstacle course without a finish," the Ombudsman described it a few years ago. For society, too, there are considerable costs associated with debt problems. On the one hand, there are the costs associated with debt relief routes: they are often very long and costly. On the other hand, indirect costs due to problems are associated with problematic debt: an increase of around 30% in ggz costs, the risk of ggz use increases by 7% and the risk of using social and/or financial assistance increases by 40%. For creditors, it may take years for them to have certainty about whether and when they get their money back. In other words, we all have a problem with problematic debts. Mr. Chairman. D66 wants us to solve this problem. We can't let people stand aside for years. It doesn't help anyone. That is why I will shortly come forward with a proposal to improve our debt response. More about that later. First, the law before us today. The amendment proposed by the Minister is already a small step in the right direction. The change lowers the threshold to be admitted to the Wsnp. The amendment also offers a second chance to those who have already tried but have not succeeded. At the same time, I am also critical, because I see that more is possible and that more needs to be done. Because it's up to politics to give people perspective again. I indicated earlier: 2,000 admissions to the Wsnp are just a drop in the ocean compared to the more than 600,000 households with problematic debts. The cabinet doesn't make a clear choice about what it wants with the Wsnp. In this way it is a dying construct, and that is why I have tabled two amendments. The first amendment gives judges more room to admit people to Wsnp by amending Article 285f. Now that possibility is still limited. In fact, therefore, an attempt must first be made to achieve a friendly path, even if it is clear in advance that the chances of success are very limited. Whether someone has been in control for years and the debt situation is, in principle, stable enough to flow into the Wsnp. This amendment makes that possible, and that is in line with the opinion of the National Ombudsman. This does not mean that municipalities can now simply refer people to the Wsnp. That still needs a reasoned statement, but I do encourage the municipalities to look critically at what is the best instrument for people. Then there is the second amendment, on the ten-year period. The Minister proposes to create an exception. Now it is true that people who have not been able to successfully complete the Wsnp have to wait ten years for them to try again, even if the reason for aborting arose beyond their fault, for example through illness or other life events. As if that weren't bad enough, they're stuck with that debt for another ten years. These are people whose lives have been on hold for years and who are surviving in long-term stress without a future perspective. Fortunately, the Minister wants to change this. If you can prove that you had to abort the Wsnp on your own account, you may make another request. But I would like to go one step further and reverse the burden of proof, because I believe that everyone deserves a second chance. If you've been bottled, it's obviously a different story, but that's not how the law is being shaped now. If the Minister wishes to substantially improve the connection of the friendly route or the legal route, it is essential to reduce considerably the ten-year period. Finally, access will be given to those citizens who are now in the Wsnp's waiting room for a long time and without prospects. Only then has the threshold to the Wsnp been substantially reduced. That's why D66 says, "Give people a second chance in principle." I do not believe that anyone steps into the Wsnp lightly, because it is really no fun to have to live on the verge of existence for three years. These people deserve our support and our trust. I hope that other parties in the Chamber will give that confidence and that second chance. Mr. Chairman. We know that people in debt often have problems in multiple habitats. The requirements of the Wsnp are very strict, but the guidance is rather limited. That's why I have a few more questions for the Minister. Do we now offer enough space for people in the Wsnp to work on their other problems during the journey, and are they well supervised? The Wsnp should solve people's problems and not increase them. Mr. Chairman. When preparing for this debate, I again found that there are so few good data on debt relief. There is very little overview of how many people receive debt relief and the costs and benefits associated with it. For example, we do not know how much is paid off on average within a Wsnp journey, and so we cannot steer on targets. The Empire needs to keep more data on this, both in the legal process and in the friendly process. How would the Minister like to do that, and does he recognize this? Is he willing to better monitor the effectiveness of this trajectory? Mr President, I will conclude. D66 wants us not to allow people to muddle into hopeless situations unnecessarily for years. All households with problematic debt deserve a chance of a debt-free future. Not the mistrust, but the resolution of the debt problem must be leading. We don't talk about equal opportunities anymore, we're gonna do it. Hopefully, we will take a small step in the near future, but in order to make that possible, we must have the courage to think bigger. I have already invited Minister Schouten to this and I am now doing the same to this Minister. If we want it, we can give those hundreds of thousands of people perspective again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Kat. Then I have two interruptions. Mrs Maatoug is allowed first, and then Mrs Kathmann. Well, we'd like to see more of the courtesy shown here. Mrs Maatoug, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for your presidency as well. Thanks also to Mrs Kat van D66 for her input. It was very strange words that no one gets in debt for fun and no one is happy to enter the Wsnp journey. My question is this. Like Mrs. Kat, we speak a lot of people. It almost seems as if there is a desire to make the number of people as low as possible. That is also what we read in the explanatory memorandum between the lines. Isn't it nice when it's all in the municipal section? My question is: do I understand D66 well when she says that the Wsnp is there for a reason; that is terrible, but we have to use it properly; do we want more people to use the Wsnp?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you for this question. The threshold for the Wsnp is just way too high. We need to lower it. The current legislative proposal contains a number of changes, but they do not go far enough as far as I am concerned. The threshold has to be even lower. That means more people should be able to enter the Wsnp. That is why the two amendments have been tabled. It is important to point out that people should not be stuck in a lovely path for an unnecessary length of time in order to investigate something, but that they can pass through the municipality towards the Wsnp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	Look, this is the room at its best. We're getting a bill from the minister. We are going to bring in more and we have a colleague with two very good amendments, who also supports GroenLinks. We say: what is now is not good enough. My follow-up question to D66 is: are we done after this? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, I am very curious to see how D66's colleague sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	Miss Kat, are we done after this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	No, we're not done after this. I think we have a lot more work to do. As I said in my introduction, I am working on a new arrangement to merge the Wsnp pathway and the gentle trajectory and reduce the duration. That's my ambition. That was in our election programme and also in the coalition agreement. So I completely agree with GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	Clear. Then we have arrived at Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for Mrs Kat's input. I know she cares. That's why she uses the words "people are three years on that edge of misery." I do have one more question. There's a Jetten motion to shorten the Wsnp period for a year and a half. I can't believe we managed to put a lot of names in this Chamber. Mr Jetten is also concerned about this. Mrs. Kat said she had some critical points. That's why I let her finish. But that critical point of shortening, which has not been taken into account now and which your colleague Mr Jetten was so keen on, I missed for a moment. Where do you stand, especially with regard to the amendment that is ready to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think that is an amendment by the PvdA, by Mrs Kathmann herself. So it's a good thing she's taking this to me. In substance, I absolutely agree with shortening the term of the Wsnp. That motion is there. There are several motions from the Chamber. I hope that the Minister will be able to answer the question as to how and when the plan will be submitted to our Chamber. I think that is important, because I think that is the change in the system that we have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mrs. Kathmann, I saw you having second thoughts. Still a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yeah, it's a follow-up question. We are now talking about the legislation in which we can regulate this. We can only do that once. A number of promises have also been made. A promise was we're gonna discuss it today. So if the plan is ahead... I'd like to ask Mrs Kat: do you hope, like me, that we'll settle this today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yeah, I sure hope we can work this out today. The amendment is fully in line with our electoral programme, with previous motions and with the coalition agreement. I'd say we're gonna try to make it to the finish line together, Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	Finally, Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	You didn't use the word "today," I did. I trust you will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	Then there is another question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	I do not want to make it monotonous, but I would also like to congratulate the speaker and the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	What's going on today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yeah, you don't see that much. But maybe everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have a question on the amendment to item No. 11 on the deletion of the ten-year period as a condition for admission to the Wsnp. That has my sympathy. My question is: does Mrs Kat think that the judges are well placed to judge whether or not there is serious culpability? How are judges supposed to do that? Does this mean that Mrs Kat expects a large increase in the number of cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	It is an opinion of the National Ombudsman, which has been before us for years. In this respect, more of the Ombudsman's opinions should lead to action. This is one of them. I certainly expect that the influx to the Wsnp will be increased and that the judicial organisation will also have more to do. I hope that this influx can be eliminated and that people have the time and energy to do so. Your other question was whether judges could take a test based on personal circumstances. The current legislative proposal already indicates that the circumstances are being considered. There's been a three-year good marriage test. This is in line with that. The ten-year period shall be three years. The good faith test is about the emergence of debts. We're not creating a new time or a new date, but it's really three years. I think judges can get away with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Kat. Then we'll go from Mrs Kat to Mrs Kathmann. She speaks for the PvdA. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Covid, rising prices for electricity, gas and groceries, while wages tend to lag behind. The result? People can't make ends meet. They can't pay the gas bill or rent anymore. The debts are piling up. This leads to all kinds of problems: poor health, depression, absenteeism and divorces. These are the effects of problematic debt. We already see thousands of people experiencing problematic debts. All these people are under stress for years, and they have to wait for years to get out of debt. There's gotta be another way. Earlier, the PvdA, together with the Christian Union, presented a plan to combat poverty and debt. The social minimum wage has been raised with one in mind. The best solution to counter problematic debt is to raise the minimum wage. It is a pity that this cabinet is doing too little for the purchasing power of the lowest incomes and middle incomes. What is not unfortunate is the announcement of this cabinet of a national debt fund. That was proposed somewhere in 2020 and adopted here. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can give a timeline for that national debt fund. Can he indicate how much extra money has been allocated for this? What would be very nice on top of that would be if the cabinet were willing to work with one national collection service that would in conjunction collect all payments. That is because, as we have all known for a long time, the government is the largest creditor in the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether benefits, allowances and other provisions can be paid at a fixed time? Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today is taking a very small step towards combating problematic debt and providing a debt-free future. It is good that the term of good faith is reduced to three years. That's really an improvement. However, the proposal that the court should be given the opportunity to deviate from the rule that a debtor cannot be re-admitted to the Wsnp within ten years is a shambles. That is already possible. If you have problematic debts, you will remain dependent on the severity of the court. The Labour Party really does not consider this to be sufficient. She felt that the ten-year deadline for admission to the Wsnp should be deleted anyway. We, as Labour Party, wholeheartedly support the D66 amendment and the CU amendment to delete it. I'll just say "Christian Union." That's a little more friendly. Mr. Chairman. This bill does not solve the problems of many people with problematic debts. For years, and sometimes nine years, people will still be in debt. That's undesirable. The consequences are not only disastrous for the individual, but also lead to high social costs. For many people, the years of debt restructuring are even reason not to ask for help. As the Labour Party, we believe that we should help these people and that they should have a debt-free future. In Utrecht they have already started, by significantly shortening the route. That, of course, deserves to be followed. As I have just said to my colleague from D66, I have therefore tabled an amendment, in line with the Jetten motion, to reduce the Wsnp to one and a half years. This means that people can work on their health and labour market opportunities again instead of having to survive every day and think about whether they have enough money left for rent and groceries. Mr. Chairman. Another serious problem with the Wsnp is the date of entry into force. The Wsnp starts on the day of the court ruling. Before the Wsnp starts, however, people in debt have already gone through a whole route, starting with the municipality via a friendly route. My colleague from D66 has already referred to this. From the start of the debt settlement, the repayment capacity is already determined. However, the path may fail, for example because creditors do not agree with this proposal. The result has considerable disadvantages for the person in debt. That person starts on a Wsnp journey all the way back to the beginning. All these additional repayments, sometimes for a year and a half, have been for nothing to go towards that debt-free future. There's got to be, and there's got to be another way. Therefore, there is my amendment which regulates that the period of debt restructuring starts when the municipality has started the out-of-court debt settlement. This significantly shortens the debt path for people with problematic debts. Mr. Chairman. Then buying up debts to make a profit. This perverse earning model must be restricted. Earlier, the Gijs van Dijk/Bruins motion was adopted to always reduce re-sold debts. This is a first step to tackle this model of earning, but we really want to stop this completely. The government agreement states that the resale of debt as a earning model is being countered. I would like to know specifically from the Minister what he is going to do about this. Will this minister prohibit the sale of debt for profit? Finally, I have the following question. I am incredibly pleased that many municipalities are making perspective arrangements for young people. Especially among young people, debt increases incredibly. Those agreements are a huge success. I would like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to talk to the municipalities to see if the tailor-made perspective agreements that municipalities make with 27-miners, with young people, can be extended to adults, because they are such an incredible success. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Kathmann. Then we've come to the joyous moment I've already announced. I call Mr Bevers, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It feels like a great privilege to speak here today, in this house. To be quite honest, when I was a little boy, member of the Lower House of the States-General was not at the top of my list of favourite professions. Fireman, policeman and all kinds of exciting and heroic activities formed my picture of my future. It's all been a little different. Mr. Chairman. My parents were of the generation who came with the necessary mental scars from World War II and the period after that. My mother lost her father in the aftermath of the war in 1945. My father didn't come back from a work camp until late 1945 in Czechoslovakia. The following year, he was called to leave for Indonesia as a military officer. That's a start to the maturity you don't want in your 20s. Their history tells me I've never taken freedom for granted. I see freedom as a hard-won and unprecedented achievement of this country. My father was a crane operator and my mother was a housewife, as was often very common in the 1950s and 1960s. They participated in and participated in the reconstruction of the Netherlands after the war. In 1965 I was born into a warm family. I grew up in a very pleasant neighborhood in Maassluis. On Sunday we went to the reformed church. My primary school was, as was natural in those circles, the Christian Doctor Abraham Kuyper School. As children, we got a decent education, but also with a lot of space to develop ourselves. The standards and values we received were undoubtedly influenced by ecclesiastical principles, but above all by common sense. What I have learned from my parents in particular is that you are ultimately responsible for the choices you make, whatever the outcome, and that you must always keep an eye on others and put out a helping hand when someone needs it. After high school, the Marnix Mavo, It must have had to do with the fact that I just got the space from my parents to choose for myself, but also as every teenager had the need to turn me off against what was "normal" or "normal." That didn't say my parents were always happy with my choices. I can still remember very lively discussions about clothing and long hair. In the end, I didn't go to the decent laboratory school in Delft, where I was admitted, but I chose the MBO programme Social Services in Leiden. Then I went to the Social Academy in Rotterdam to become a social worker. Now the critical listener will undoubtedly be wondering what kind of liberal phenomena have occurred to me. In the early 1980s, the Social Academy was not really a liberal club in the political sense. On the contrary, "left of the middle" is really a big understatement. Yet there, and in the period after that, lies an important basis in my thinking about freedom, responsibility and social justice. After the Social Academy I went to work in the care of the homeless, at the Salvation Army, and later as a general social worker. I met a lot of people back then and offered a helping hand. From debt to relationship problems, from addiction problems to homelessness and from unemployment to children's education questions. It's just a small part of what I've been told as an aid worker. But in all these contacts, almost always the question was: help me, help us get back on our feet. One time that is easier than the other time, but it has led me to say that I do not want to write people off. I want to look at solutions that work, looking for new ways to give a meaningful boost or a strong push in the right direction. The first years of my working life have undoubtedly made a lot of impression and have strengthened the foundation of who I have finally become. Together with the standards and values I have received from home, this is the basis of my political choices. The core of it is the freedom to organise your life as you wish and take responsibility for yourself, but also for the people around you. Mr. Chairman. The enormous resilience that people have to return to life after a setback is often unexpectedly great. Also, the desire of almost everyone to organise their own lives is a reason why I am positive about the possibilities of people. For me, that means looking at what someone can do. However, from the experience I have just described, I also know that not everyone always has enough resilience to really take that direction. Then, as a society, we have a responsibility to take steps, to ensure that resilience and self-responsibility can be restored. Sometimes when things are really bad, we as a government can offer a helping hand. The Law on Debt Remodelling Natural Persons, the Wsnp, is such a means of helping those who have gotten stuck in problematic debt. It is a far-reaching helping hand, because a large part of it takes away its own financial direction. In the present amendment to this law, a number of sharp sides of the law are modified to improve the flow to the Wsnp. But as far as the VVD is concerned, this change of law is a part of and a starting point for a more fundamental discussion on how we deal with debt and causes of debt in society. I have rarely met anyone who chooses to be in debt. More and more external debt, such as high inflation and high energy prices, as well as government restrictive measures during the pandemic, have caused SMEs andzzp'ers to be unable to do their job and to get into trouble. Mr. Chairman. The preferential position of the government, the reasonable deadlines in which a debt restructuring must be completed and the re-launch with a clean slate are just a few examples of topics on which we would like to discuss with the cabinet, in addition to the agreements we have already made in the coalition agreement. In short, we want to discuss the human dimension of debt relief. We look forward with great interest to the Minister for Poverty Policy's note on poverty reduction and problematic debt. The reduction in the time limit for the good faith test will be reduced from five to three years. In our view, three years is a time-limit which is also more common within debt relief. So we support them. The VVD also supports the addition of what I conveniently call a "hardness clause." It is a good thing that the judge is given the opportunity to admit people in distressing cases. I would like to draw particular attention to the importance of the quality and expertise of directors. For example, it is essential for an SME with problematic debts admitted to the Wsnp to have a director with specific knowledge of SMEs. For example, for an independent entrepreneur, the conduct of an administration or the obligations he or she has with the Tax Administration, such as sales tax, are completely different from for a private individual. Managing is important, but there has been great dissatisfaction with the proliferation of directors in the municipality for many years. On behalf of my group, I would therefore like to ask the Minister, in cooperation with Minister Schouten, to come up with proposals to improve this and to work out the agreed stricter requirements for directors. Finally, Mr President. Even before I could make this maiden speech, I found myself on the front page of De Telegraaf last weekend. Between 100 photos of Dutch MPs I also saw my portrait. According to 77% of the readers of this newspaper, we are too busy with ourselves in this house instead of solving problems. I only see that as an incentive to do my job well. I therefore welcome the fact that I have the opportunity to make my first contribution to this House on such a substantive issue that I am very concerned about. I certainly intend to continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Beavers. You have beautifully integrated a personal note into today's substantive debate; compliments. I'm suspending the Congratulations meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u30	Again, thank you, Mr. Beavers. Enjoy this special day, especially for you. We have arrived at the fourth speaker in the debate on the Amendment of the Bankruptcy Act to improve the flow of municipal debt relief to the statutory debt restructuring scheme of natural persons. I call Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although the proposal for a directive has happened to have ended up in the Rutte IV period, it falls at a time when every household in this left-wing cabinet has gained a strong minus in purchasing power and inflation has risen to record levels. Citizens and small businesses are increasingly struggling to make ends meet. This bill introduces changes to the Bankruptcy Act to ensure a better connection between the municipal debt relief pathway, the Wgs, and the legal debt restructuring scheme of natural persons, the Wsnp. A number of conditions to be able to flow to those Wsnp are modified. The five-year period during which a debtor must have been in good faith prior to the submission of the application for admission with regard to the creation and unpaid release of his debts shall be reduced from five to three years. The second condition is that an exception should be introduced, so that, in poignant cases, the judge is given the opportunity to admit a debtor if he or she has already been admitted to the Wsnp once in the previous ten years. For example, a distressing situation that can be considered is that, after completion of the first Wsnp journey, a debtor is once again in financial difficulties beyond his debt. Examples include illness, mental problems, non-criminal dismissal. Although this sounds sympathetic, we should also look at the other side of this coin. The debt relief process lasts three years and the debtor has only a small amount at his disposal for the necessary costs. That is difficult, nor does my group deny it. The remaining debts shall be repaid by the administrator as far as possible during that period. At the end of that period, the debtor is therefore, in principle, debt-free. The creditors who are then left may then whistle at the payment of the remainder of their own claim. So that's the other side. Often this concerns small entrepreneurs who can't help themselves. It can also be the local sports association, because it cannot be admitted to the Wsnp. Mr. Chairman. It cannot be that the debtor has learned nothing in that, albeit difficult, period of time and again can make debts and be put back into a debt relief process. In my past, as a lawyer, I've seen people taking advantage of it. Being a director is not a protected profession either. So however well-intentioned it may be, we have also heard the drawbacks: commercial companies trying to make profits. Unfortunately, this bill does not address these dangers. Mr. Chairman. I must also stress that this is why my group has always said: once in the case of debt relief, the starting point must be the starting point, so no longer after that. After that you must have learned your lesson, because it is, as I have said several times, a difficult period. For the time being, therefore, my position is that I will advise my group to vote against this bill, because it is a relaxation of the current legislation. Then there's the hardness clause. It sounds very strange. Here, a hardness clause is interpreted as a kind of escape escape escape escape is a escape route if the debtor does not fulfil the condition to be admitted under current legislation. It is not used by courts and courts as an exception to the rule for nothing. But it then goes away in this bill, because the period of good faith is reduced from five to three years. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the added value of this part of the bill? What guarantees do he think there are to prevent abuse of the Wsnp scheme? In other words, as I said earlier, how is it arranged that only debtors who have fallen into financial difficulties entirely outside their own debt will be admitted to this process for a second time? In fact, in the explanatory memorandum, on page 10, there are still a lot of escape possibilities. I just mentioned a few. I understand an economic crisis or lockdown in principle, but that also applies to those small companies, which are on the other side. However, concepts such as a disease, non-appointable dismissal or mental problems can be interpreted fairly widely. In order to advise my group, I would therefore like a clear answer from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Helder. I have an interruption for you from Mrs. Kat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u33	I've heard the contribution of the PVV. Just to clarify, do I understand that, in your view, the threshold to the Wsnp pathway should not be lowered, despite the opinion of the National Ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u34	I'd like to go through the chairman, tell Mrs. Kat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u35	I can be very short. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u36	That was short indeed. Thank you again, Mrs Helder. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many people go into debt at some point in their lives: a mortgage for a house, a pay-off phone or even a loan for your studies. The latter is much discussed here; that is a bad decision. In our debt society, it's the most normal thing in the world to make debts. Sometimes debts lead to problems. If people do not get the right help to get rid of these debts, the problems are getting bigger and bigger. As long as the government maintains the debt economy, the same government is also morally obliged to take care of people who are in trouble as far as the SP is concerned. There are hundreds of thousands of households in the Netherlands with problematic debts, many potential tragedies. The corona time has been tough for many people, entrepreneurs,zzp'ers. And again, it is a difficult time, with many rising prices. I think we agree that it is now more important than ever that debt relief is properly arranged. This law is indeed trying to improve that. We know the system whereby people in debt are first encouraged to settle with their creditors on a voluntary basis. If you can't do that, the judge can be asked for help. The judge can force creditors to cooperate, in exchange for strict agreements with the debtor to pay off the debts. The law we are discussing today aims to improve the flow of municipal debt relief, the voluntary basis, to the Legal Debt Remodelling Scheme natural persons, the Wsnp, by allowing people with debt to be eligible for legal debt restructuring earlier. That is the aim that the SP can wholeheartedly support. As early as 2013, for example, the SP argued for the more frequent application of the Wsnp for people with problematic debt by means of a general ten-year hardness clause, because it is important that the prospect of a debt-free future can be offered to more citizens through reorganisation. In the meantime, I do think we should go a little further. I have great sympathy and appreciation for the amendments tabled by colleagues from D66, Christian Union and the Labour Party. Although we support the good intentions of the law, I am concerned that the government is saying that only an increase of several hundred cases a year is expected. Why is that bothering me? In 2011, almost 15,000 people entered the Wsnp route. By 2020, there were less than 3,000. That is a huge decline, while the number of people with problematic debts has not fallen. I believe that at municipal level, all things are being taken away, but I think this reduction is huge. Is the extension proposed by this law sufficient? If so, is the number of hundreds of cases a year not an extra low estimate? What does it mean for the capacity and finances of the parties involved if this assessment is too low and it is disappointing in practice if what we want is to happen, namely more people to the Wsnp for that second chance? Take justice. Do judges have sufficient time to properly assess requests? What if it turns out that it is not a few hundred but many more things to which the hardness clause could apply? Will the Minister be able to make a financial contribution? In addition, I can imagine that, as judges are given more extensive opportunities to assess whether someone should be flowing into the Wsnp, more time will be wasted on assessing applications. That seems to me to be a real expectation. But the Minister does not take that into account in his calculations. So judges will have to spend more time on a Wsnp application in the same time, but I don't think that's possible. So again the question to the Minister whether he can look at that again, that financial aspect of this law, and whether he can promise that the wallet will be drawn as judges indicate that he cannot get away with the funds now promised. Like I said, we have to help people when they're in debt. But as far as the SP is concerned, the government could do much more to prevent people from falling into debt. This is also the subject of other debates, Mr President, but a few comments from me at the moment. Because there is little to say about that, and that is a pity, so I hope I can make some suggestions. Increase the minimum hourly wage to €15 as soon as possible, and thus also the related benefits. Lower the rents. Reduce the maximum interest rate on credits. Get fixed contracts back to the norm instead of flexible fucking contracts. And remove the fine on being sick, on your own risk, as soon as possible. I would like a response from the Minister to all these proposals. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about debt management. This, of course, has an explicit connection with this law, because the objectives are partly the same. This debt management can also be done by municipalities themselves. This has recently been a pilot in the Drechtsteden region, and the results of this trial were surprising: where people in debt were previously on average only after five years off their debts when they were under the control of a commercial director, that was with the municipal directors after an average of two years. And that, of course, is a very big difference, remarkable. The alderman in Dordrecht rightly pointed out, as far as I am concerned, that this difference can only be explained by the fact that directors hold on to debtors for far too long, so that they can continue to earn themselves. But even worse is that these directors are ultimately paid for these practices by municipalities, i.e. taxpayers' money. In other places too, people have tried this, or they want it very much, as is evident from conversations. But you sometimes run into obstacles in practice, for example the Market and Government Act, to mention a bottleneck. We have tabled an amendment which regulates the obligation for municipalities to employ their own directors and to invest debt management more with the municipalities instead of leaving this regime to the market. And we believe, in principle, that the purpose of the regime cannot be reconciled with the interests of a commercial party, namely to make money. And don't get me wrong: fortunately, things are going very often well; there are many commercial directors who have the best interests with the clients who are in their control. But the reality is also that things go wrong too often, with cowboys who see rule as a milk cow or even withholding money from clients. In addition, because the fixed fees are so low, commercial directors also get the chance to pick the dried grapes and leave the difficult things on the left, which eventually end up on the board of the municipality. We therefore believe that the system should be changed, hence this amendment. For the sake of clarity, therefore, this amendment does not mean that all commercial directors should be dismissed. No, people can still choose a private provider, but if they don't choose, the ball is with the municipalities. Moreover, the amendment also states that, of course, a family member can also be chosen in principle. That remains as far as we are concerned, because that is often the option they would like for people. I look forward to a response from the Minister to this amendment. Otherwise, I would like to hear from the Minister, if he is not in a position to give a positive opinion, how he intends to put an end to malicious practices, how he intends to help debtors out of debt rather than to avoid unnecessary waste of taxpayers' money. And yet this also about this. We are aware that this amendment does not solve all the problems, because we have just said: tariffs. I hear from responsible aldermen that you can't actually provide adequate management, private or public for the fixed rates of government. Then why are these rates so low? Does the Minister agree with me that there is a very big problem here? And what can he do to solve that problem? Finally, a few other issues. The coalition agreement contains fine words about dealing with and even preventing debt. And now the Council for Health and Society, the stainless steel, has recently come up with a clear plea, namely: government, take care of a national clean-up plan. At the heart of the plan is that municipalities can buy off the creditors, take over the remainder of the debts and agree a payment arrangement with residents. They must be debt-free within three years, and if they cannot repay that money, then the State must guarantee it through a fund. When can we expect this fund from this government? In order to fulfil your statutory duties as director, it is important that you as administrator can open a bank account for your client. Without accounts, no benefits or supplements can be applied for. In other words, financial management cannot be started. But now it comes: banks sometimes refuse to open an account for run-down clients who are included in fraud registers. Then it just stops. Then you can't do anything anymore. As early as April, the Justice and Security Committee asked the Minister for a response on this issue. I hope he can promise me today that he will solve this problem, or rather, that he is already trying to solve this problem. I hope, for example, that he is already talking to banks about this. I believe that banks should act in our social interest. It doesn't happen all the time. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Another point I would like to make is that people are already in control of new debts. How could that happen? Because companies are not obliged to consult the Central Curatel and Directors Register before entering into an agreement with someone. So companies don't have to check if someone is under curate or rule. This may, for example, prevent people under control from opening their own bank accounts or entering into new debts. Why do we not ensure that the consultation of that CBBR is implemented in the standard work process with each organisation? Finally. The SP has previously called for attention to be given to the possibility of giving the court the legal power to allow payment in instalments. The Minister said in written answers that he is preparing a draft legislative proposal for this. That is very nice to hear, but that should be there now. Is the Minister prepared to clarify when this bill will be consulted and when it can come to the Chamber? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Van Nispen. I see Mrs Kat has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u39	If I understand the SP correctly, then the debtor has the option to indicate that he wants a director or someone from the municipality. If the debtor does not choose, the municipality will start doing so. Unfortunately, there are also bad examples of governance carried out by the municipality, such as in Deventer. That's what the judge put a stop to. So that's not very good. But the question is: should municipalities also be obliged to work with clean-up appropriations? That is, much more than a debt settlement, a proven effective means. How does the SP see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u40	First of all, I should like to comment on the first point. Mrs Kat mentions one example of a municipality where this has apparently gone wrong. There are also a lot of examples of commercial directors where it has gone seriously wrong. I think Mrs Kat realizes that, too. I would also like to mention an example of a place where things have gone very well. I do not think that just the appointment of municipal directors is the solution to everything and that nothing will ever go wrong again. If that's the question, I'll admit it. But I do think it is a good principle that as a government we have democratic control over municipal government and how it is implemented. After all, this is about community money. In any case, agreement can be reached on how the director in question is going to ensure that the client is back on his own feet as soon as possible. The current system doesn't really know that. That is the failure of the current system that I am trying to demonstrate here and we are proposing a solution to this. But that does mean it has to be done right. It should not go wrong with a municipality, but with commercial directors there is also a lot going wrong at the moment. I hope we can agree on that. Let me now turn to the question of municipal clean-up appropriations. It sounds nice. I think I agree with that. At least I asked a question about the advice of the stainless steel industry. It also proposes a clean-up plan. I do not know exactly the details of this proposal, but I think it is a good proposal. Let us continue to talk about this in interruption to the Minister, because that seems sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. The stainless steel is of course the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u42	No, the Health & Society Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u43	It's good to clear that up. Then we arrived at Mr.Ceder on behalf of the Christian Union Group, "the CU," as a colleague said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. Could words from the Old Testament offer some wisdom to the Dutch parliament in 2022, and then on the subject of legal debt restructuring of natural persons? I think so. In Deuteronomy 15, verses 1 and 2, it says: "After seven years you must grant forgiveness. This is what forgiveness means: any creditor who has borrowed something from his neighbor must forgive him. He may not demand payment from his neighbors or his brother, since he has declared a remission before the Lord." Mr. Chairman. What would the world look like if we applied this principle everywhere? We may never know, but fortunately we have since 1998 in the Netherlands the Wsnp, which builds on the old wisdom that an ever-aggravating financial burden on a person, without end in sight, is contrary to the principle that every person deserves perspective. As far as I am concerned, the Wsnp is not an end in itself but a legal guarantee of this principle. Because perspective gives hope, hope that one day it can get better, hope that someone has something to look forward to. Having perspective means that someone knows that their current situation doesn't have to be the terminal. That is why the Christian Union is pleased that today we are discussing the improvements of the Wsnp in the Chamber. For 8% of households have problematic debts. We all know that debt-taking affects well-being, health and participation. We also see that the number of people in the Wsnp has been falling for years, while the number of households with problematic debts is not falling. I think this means that the threshold for the Wsnp is too high. I have already asked written questions, along with Mr Kat, about the decline in the current situation. In making policies, the government relies on the self-reliant and rational thinking citizen, who can make logical choices on a temporary basis. However, the practice is unbearable. Debts may result from too many supplements received, which must be repaid. Think also of the influence of major events, such as dismissal or divorce. A child who grew up in debt has a better chance of getting himself into debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u45	You saw it coming: there is an interruption for you from Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u46	... Yeah, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u47	It was because of me that the microphone didn't work. I hadn't pressed the button yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u48	I wanted to say to Mr Ceder: forgive us our debts. His input inspired me. In preparation for this debate, I saw: we are coming out of a corona year, huge debts, security of existence, all those families in the reservoir. The ombud report doesn't lie about it. Is it perhaps not a good idea, in line with biblical tradition, to choose a jubilee year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u49	My predecessor, Eppo Bruins, has already said something about this once. However, a jubilee year is once every 50 years, I thought, but it is true that it comes back once in a certain time. Let me put it this way: in my view, the principle and principle is that I have already said that every person deserves perspective and a second chance. What you see now at macro level, in the global economy, but also at micro level, is that you hold on to each other with debt-to-debt debt in a certain grip, which has very big consequences, including at macro level. Think also of the debt crisis in 2008. In a jubilee year, we're gonna have to keep talking. It is once every 50 years, but when is the starting point and when is the end point? But I agree with the principle, at macro level, i.e. the countries and the world, but also at micro level, i.e. the individual. The ever heavier financial burden on a person or country can lead to little good if you cannot offer a certain valve, certain customization. I think we're in agreement on that. Let's talk about how we might bring back certain things from the Old Testament. I see a nice combination with GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u50	You have a nice subject to talk about. Proceed with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u51	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Our task is to establish a fair system, both for debtors and creditors. The debtor must have a perspective on a debt-free future. The creditor must have the opportunity to obtain the highest possible repayment of his claim. A long and complicated gentle journey reduces the chance of this. The bill is a step in the right direction of improving the Wsnp. The proposals contribute to a faster flow of the friendly route to the legal route. However, it is not the solution. According to the Christian Union, more is needed. One of the points is, for example, a shortening of the Wsnp pathway. I think it has already been indicated, but it has been widely stated in the Chamber that the route needs to be shortened. To my surprise, this is not mentioned in the documents from the government. I understand that this has partly to do with the fact that it was a previous cabinet, a former minister, Minister Dekker, who made the proposals, but I hope that we will be able to settle this in the foreseeable future. I look forward to the Minister's explanation as to why this has not yet been taken up and what he thinks should be done now in order to achieve it. I have seen and read Mrs Kathmann's amendment. It is complicated that I agree with what is also stated in our election programme, but in this way I cannot see what the impact is now. I am not blaming Mrs Kathmann for that, but I am blaming the cabinet, which I believe has had long enough time to go through all the parties and the Council of State to see what is possible to make this broad-based wish of the Chamber possible. So I am struggling with the amendment, not because I do not share the intention, but because I am also looking for ways to ensure that we can incorporate proper legislation. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. I notice that the two proposed changes still breathe the fear that someone is taking advantage of the Wsnp, rather than really looking at the citizens' needs with debt to new perspective. An example of this is the change around the ten-year period. It is proposed to add a new member to the ten-year term, allowing judges, in distressing cases, to re-enter the Wsnp within 10 years. However, why do we even have the ten-year term? In ten years, human life can take great turns. A debtor may have to reapply the Wsnp due to all kinds of circumstances, even beyond his fault. Is it not unfair and unjust to exclude people from access to the Wsnp for a certain period of time? Above all, the ten-year period is mainly intended to prevent abuse. Isn't the good faith test a sufficient threshold, just to pick up this point and for admission to the Wsnp? That is why we have tabled an amendment together with Mrs Kat, which she has just explained. In the current situation, the hardness clause of the good faith test is hardly used. I am therefore afraid that this will apply to the derogation that will be added to allow someone to join the Wsnp in distressing cases within ten years. What are the Minister's expectations of how often this relaxation will be used? Moreover, "shrinking cases" is an open standard. I understand that it is complicated to make this standard more legally explicit, but my concern is that a large number of things will first have to pass in order to develop case law and find out where the limit of a poignant case lies. In the current situation, municipal debt relief workers often wrongly do not send a person for admission to the Wsnp in case of doubts as to whether that person will pass the hardness clause of good faith. That's what we need to break through. Mr. Chairman. Many debtors are dependent on themselves in resolving their debts, while they are confused in a chaos of debt. They often also have to arrange for admission to the Wsnp in court. Where to start? People with problematic debts are usually unable to submit a Wsnp request to the court independently, well documented and substantiated. As an attorney, I've been helping people with such a request from time to time. It's complicated. The coalition agreement has therefore agreed to simplify access to the Wsnp. In the note on the report, I read that there is a pilot project in which people are led by a director as legal aid provider to the debtor in order to have a better chance of being admitted. How does this pilot project proceed? Does the Minister intend to give this project a more structural character? I am considering a motion on this subject, depending on the Minister's reply. I am also curious to see what role the Minister sees for municipal debt relief towards a Wsnp pathway. What guidance can a citizen expect? Citizens could expect the municipality to be well informed about the possibilities of a Wsnp journey and to be accompanied by an application. The improvements that have been made today, as I indicated earlier, still stem from an old cabinet period. What measures does the Minister have in mind to develop this cabinet period precisely to improve access? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to an end. Guidance is also essential during the Wsnp-courses. It's often too easy to think about a route: biting on a stick for three years, and your problems have been solved. However, the trajectory is both financially and mentally heavy. The obligations that must be fulfilled during the journey also require a great deal of reliance on citizens. Can't a helping hand during this journey properly prevent people from falling out or ending up in debt again? How's the minister looking at this? This is also an opinion of the National Ombudsman. On this point, too, depending on the Minister's reply, I am considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. Prevention is better than cure. The Christian Union therefore attaches great importance to focusing on prevention and the importance of sustainable financial self-reliance. Debts are made easy. Wrong decisions or decisions of another, the tragedy of life, and with some people life is simply disappointing. Often it is also a lack of financial knowledge and/or accumulation of choices. What role does the Minister see from his portfolio for preventing debt and improving the financial self-reliance of citizens, including in cooperation with Mrs Schouten? Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Wsnp Directors Office started a process in which it can assist people with subsidised legal aid. Does the Minister have any results and, if so, does the Minister see the possibility, also financially, of continuing to do so and making it structural? Finally, Mr President, I would like to return to what is important to the Christian Union about this law. That's how we always offer people perspective. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ceder, for your contribution. Then we are with the last speaker, Mrs Maatoug, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Bevers on his maiden speech. Thanks for that personal story. In the corridors I hear how he ended up in the VVD neighbourhoods from the social academy. I'm very curious about that, and maybe others too. Welcome. The contribution and also the personal words about the importance of this subject reminded me of what I think is one of the most beautiful pieces in parliamentary history, namely the Tendeloo motion. With this motion, we have abolished the capacity of women to act, because all female MPs in all political groups were so courageous as to fill in their duties as MPs. In this debate, I think that perhaps we should continue this tradition together. This way we can do good things for the Netherlands, and that's why we came here. Then my contribution, Mr. Chairman. Before I bring up the law before me, I have to get something off my chest. There's something I notice in debt debates. We are sitting here with a combination of the Justice Committee and the Social Affairs Committee. The field is also complicated with all the legislation and all the pathways, and the abbreviations are flying around you. But if we're not careful, we individualize the problem of debt. The reason we have such large numbers of people in debt is that it is incredibly bad with the security of existence in the Netherlands. Mr Kathmann and Mr Van Nispen, I always wanted to say his first name, Mr Van Nispen, said that very well. You only have to have a bit of bad luck in this country. You lose your job, a child gets sick or something happens that happens to us all and you fall into a very big hole, because there is no bottom anymore. This is why we are talking about this reservoir over there. This is why so many people are in trouble. This debate is becoming much less necessary and important when we restore that security of existence. On behalf of GroenLinks, I think it is important to say that we must be careful to make individuals responsible for this structural problem. For not only is the security of existence not in order. In addition, we have created a huge free market in which it is entirely free to make large profits over the backs of people, in which profits can be resold and in which the protection of citizens is very limited. That, too, deserves a lot of attention here. The debt industry is not that big in any other country. We have encouraged this very much in this small polder country. Then there is the law, because today we are talking about the amendment of the Bankruptcy Act which makes it easier to access the Legal Debt Remodelling of natural persons, the Wsnp one of those abbreviations. The Wsnp makes it possible for people to get rid of their debts after three years. It is important that that possibility exists. A lot of my colleagues have said that. Because everyone deserves to get a second chance and get on with their lives with a clean slate. We need those people, and they deserve that. However, the number of Wsnp-routes, Mr Kat, has been falling dramatically for years. It was still 12.00 in 2014; by 2020 it was less than 3.000. I repeat those figures because it is a good thing to realize this. This shows a structural problem. I think these figures are no surprise to the Minister, but I would be shocked every day. What's going on here? This means that fewer people are given a clean slate. One of these causes is that the Wsnp is very strict. For example, you have to be in good faith for five years now to qualify, and should you unexpectedly fall off the course, you can no longer use it for ten years. This means that many don't even start. We see in the Ombudsman's report how important that is. I assume, of course, that all my colleagues have read it. For example, there's Henk, 38 years old. "Ten years ago, I was in debt. Seven years ago, I became homeless. Fortunately I now have a roof over my head again. But I am still not rid of my mortgage debt and without the help of the Wsnp I will not get rid of it either." Or Herman, 63: "I would kill for it, to finally get into debt restructuring." Those personal stories, we all know them, end up on our desk. We are therefore pleased that the route goes to three years. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this relaxation could have gone a step further, and that is what I am tasting here in this Chamber. We are very pleased with the amendments tabled by colleagues from D66 and the Christian Union. GroenLinks has also asked more often to make it possible to go straight to the legal route without a friendly trajectory. We also welcome the legal extension to make this possible, as proposed by the other amendment. In addition, we ask the Minister if he shares with GroenLinks that it is desirable that more people should become debt-free, and that more people should go to the Wsnp. We haven't heard the Minister say that yet, and I think it's important to get that verdict. It is expected that this will not be the case. What we see now is that people with large debts linger for too long in a friendly path and don't come out of it. Creditors are only asked to commit themselves to debt forgiveness, which means that people linger at that stage even longer. These cases belong in the Wsnp as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Does the Minister share that? In addition, we would like to draw attention to a number of other causes of the low influx into the Wsnp, because that is not only in the strict requirements. The law already offers a number of possibilities on a number of points, but it is not always used by debt relief workers and directors. How does the Minister see that? The National Ombudsman carried out an investigation some time ago, and many of his colleagues referred to it. The title says everything: Obstacles without a finish. The conclusion is that far too many people linger for far too long in all kinds of debt relief without working towards a debt-free future. This means that people sometimes have to live with big debts for 15 years, which leads to fear, stress and isolation. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is unacceptable and we must do everything in our power to ensure that these people can participate again. A few questions to the Minister. First of all. In his report on target plans, the Ombudsman has the starting point for someone to move on to a friendly path after 12 months of stabilisation. The same target could be set for a passage from a friendly to a legal route, if, for example, after 12 months, a friendly debt settlement has not yet been achieved. Then it seems to me that we should not try for another 12 months. Is the Minister prepared to include such a target standard in policy and possibly even in legislation? For those people who think: how fast she talks, my clock still gives eight seconds, so my time is almost up. There is still little use of clean-up appropriations, while for both municipalities and debtors it is a pleasant way of settling debts. What is the situation, I ask the Minister, with the implementation of the Guarantee Fund set up for this purpose? Directors are not always engaged in a debt-free future for people they support. Let's be honest, they don't always benefit from that either. We see a very nice proposal from colleague Van Nispen of the SP. So far, we've been flogged back under the guise of market disruption, but wouldn't it be much better for the debtors if we started whistling back the market here? How does the Minister feel about that? Finally, we believe that the minimum wage should be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. A nice reference to Corry Tendeloo who in 1955 made sure that the capacity for action was abolished a year later. By the way, the result was 44 against 46, all female MPs plus a number of non-female MPs supported it. It was close. Thanks for a bit of history, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-4.u55	We have arrived at the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs more than half an hour. I really want to meet in half an hour, so I'm gonna suspend the meeting until a little after 5:30.
