ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the Eurogroup/Ecofin Council of 8 June 2022. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, we discussed in detail with the Minister the fact that the European Commission started a process of gradually transferring almost EUR 36 billion to Poland, while undermining the independence of the judiciary. This was also noted by the European Court of Justice. In the letter we received yesterday at the end of the morning from the Minister, she acknowledges that judges who have been sidetracked or dismissed by the disciplinary system which, according to the European Court, was not able to do so are not immediately restored. That's a big omission. Furthermore, the letter states that compliance with constitutional principles as such under the Regulation for the Restoration and Resilience Fund would not be a formal legal review criterion, while the list of criteria states that Member States should take measures to prevent, detect and correct corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest. There seems to be an absolute conflict of interest here. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Polish Government continues to undermine the independence of the judiciary;]] [[noting that the European Commission has decided by a majority to accept the Polish recovery plan and a step-by-step transfer of EUR 35.4 billion to Poland from the Recovery and Resilience Facility;]] [[noting that the Polish recovery plan does not provide for the full implementation of the rulings of the European Court of Justice to ensure the rule of law and that the country is now in danger of receiving funds while periodic penalty payments are still required;]] [[In June 2021, the Chamber noted that, by means of the adopted motion (35663, No. 23) the Government has requested that "the Council object to implementing acts contrary to constitutional and democratic principles";]] [[calls on the Government, like the Dutch Commissioner, to vote against the implementing decision in the Council and to urge the European Commission to fully respect the Court's decisions as a condition for the approval of the Polish recovery plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1859]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for the letter we received on the weighting and assessment of the Polish recovery plan. I understand that it was sent at the appropriate time because it was also subject to a pure consideration. So, in that sense, I did not entirely agree with the previous speaker and I would like to express my appreciation for that letter. Mr. Chairman. Many different plans are currently being launched in Europe, whether they are setting up new funds or converting existing funds. The cabinet is negotiating on this in Europe, as we read in the papers. I think it is important that, as a parliament, we provide frameworks and indicate in good time where our borders lie. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) is a temporary crisis instrument with strict conditions for reform;]] [[Whereas further flexibilisation of crisis instruments is undesirable and crisis measures should be temporary and limited in nature;]] [[Whereas structural common debt financing is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to agree to the structuralisation of the RRF, not to convert the unused loan part into grants and to maintain existing conditions of reform,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Heinen, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1860]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you, Mr. Heinen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate on the Ecofin Council, we discussed the situation in Poland and the decision taken by the European Commission on this subject for a long time. My group regrets the Commission's choice. Mr Timmermans has voted against, but unfortunately he is part of a Commission that is simply moving forward on this issue. I have also called on the cabinet not to agree to what is now going on. I think it would be wise for the cabinet, in the letter we received yesterday, to send a comprehensive letter, for which I would like to thank you for saying that it will not vote in favour of this Commission decision. That is, of course, the most important thing, because we are abstaining from supporting it. The bad news, of course, is that the Netherlands is all alone there. That makes it extra good, I think, that the cabinet has a way back, but of course it is very worrying, because that is why this decision is simply coming through the Council. My group regrets that. Then there is Mr Van der Lee's motion, which says he would rather vote against it than abstain. My group is sympathetic to this, but the reality is that this material does not make any difference. The core is that the Netherlands is abstaining from aid. I will support the motion, but the crux is, as far as I am concerned, what the Minister is doing, namely abstaining. That we are the only country to do so is sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a lot of strength for all VMBO students in primary and framework education. We do wish the vwo and havoleers much strength here, but these are the hard workers who have worked just as hard. Then Poland. Poland does not comply with the rulings of the European Court of Justice. The rule of law was one of the essentials on which European cooperation was built. If you then negotiate that you will have to phase out the rulings of the European Court and only partially implement them in order to get all your subsidies, while you do not even pay the periodic penalty payments, you will undermine European cooperation and undermine the rule of law with all of them. It is a further step down on the long European road of making agreements and not complying with them. If you're afraid to vote against this, when are you going to vote against it? That is why I co-signed Mr Van der Lee's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. That's how we got the input from the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that she can respond immediately. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you very much. Many thanks also to the authors of the motions. I think it is very important that we have considered this a number of times. I also recognise the emotion expressed by Mr Omtzig and the question: how does this proceed? The Netherlands, the previous cabinet and this cabinet, has made a firm commitment to defending the values within the Union. It wants to ensure that the rule of law is strengthened and not weakened. But you will also have noticed from my rather long and detailed letter that a number of major dilemmas play an important role here. One is that Poland, like any other country, has submitted a recovery and resilience plan, in accordance with the criteria there were. Moreover, we still have to submit the plan. The second is that, according to the Commission, the recovery and resilience plan meets the requirements. The Commission itself has stretched the plan and the approach, precisely in order to strengthen the rule of law. We have spoken a long time, even after our debates, with a number of Member States. Normally, the Netherlands can join a larger group of people, such as Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium, other countries that stand up for the same themes as us. I have just been confirmed that both Sweden and Denmark will vote in favour after a debate with their parliaments. We are the only country that is abstaining from aid. I have a number of ministers this weekend, so the letter sent on Monday was spoken to tell them again: let us know; these are our considerations; we cannot express support; will you join us? There is no country that wants to vote against, not even one that wants to abstain, so the choice we make is respect for what the Commission has done. We also support the Commission, because the Commission must continue in group procedures through all the other traces that we discussed in the debate last week. Yes, the court must be respected. And no, we are not satisfied with the speed and procedure with regard to the disciplinary chamber and the re-entry of the judges. But the signal that the Netherlands will send is abstinence and that is a powerful signal. It's all the more powerful because we're doing it alone. It means we don't support it. It also means: Commission, no money can go to Poland until all the conditions we have set are met. I take this into account the intention of the rule of law. We will continue our efforts. We will give an explanation of vote or a letter with a number of countries to the Commission in which we will indicate in very clear terms what we expect and what we want to see before any euro can be transferred to Poland. That being so, I would advise against the motion in part No. 1859 in terms of text, for we intend to abstain, brave, but alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. So the motion in part No. 1859 is not recommended. Mr Van der Lee, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u12	It is, of course, deeply sad that the Netherlands is alone. But if you're on your own, you can also make that signal more powerful. It is not just a strong diplomatic signal, but a signal to all citizens in the Netherlands and in the European Union. From The Hague, the city of peace and justice, where the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court are located, I think it is very important to be absolutely clear about your position: no, we do not accept this. Why not take the extra step? It doesn't do any damage or anything, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'm not going to publicly speculate on the assessment of possible political-diplomatic damage. It is quite clear that a number of others, partners, do not think the Netherlands is so smart about this. That's one. The second important thing is that we also have to look at what the plan is about. A vote against a plan that actually meets the criteria for the recovery and resilience fund is one. Remembering with an explanation of vote and hopefully with a number of countries is the signal 'we do not support this'. Mr Van Weyenberg has chosen the right words. That is a very powerful signal from political diplomacy, because it does not occur. And unfortunately, with our abstention or our vote against, we will not stop the trial here. There are other paths for that, which we must also walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u14	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u15	However, I regret that. According to the Constitution, we as a party, and many Members of Parliament, are obliged to support the international legal order. We have made specific agreements within the European Union and they are simply being violated. Of course, you can always look at international relations from a realism perspective, but we have to conduct value-driven politics and be at this point, the foundation of the European Union, in principle. So I call on the Minister to be clear to all Dutch and Europeans: this is a limit; we just say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u16	I think we are very clear with the explanation of vote and the solo action of the Netherlands at all levels. We will also be very clear in calling on the Commission to open a second intergroup procedure. That's what matters. And there's definitely no money going to Poland yet. I think this is the start of a new round. Then the motion to part No. 1860 by Mr Heinen. It is entirely in line with the government's commitment, and I give it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-2.u18	I shall suspend the sitting until 10.50 a.m. and then we shall begin the debate on the Spring Note. I would like to thank the Minister for her contribution to this debate, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed it. We are going to vote today on the motions that have been tabled. Then you know that.
