ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Change in the Constitution to repeal additional articles that have been drafted (35787).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	We have one speaker and that is Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everything that is beautiful will end, including this Constitutional Day. I thought it was a good proposal at first reading, and I still think it is. I also think it makes sense that we're doing this. However, I still had the same question that had been raised at first reading. Two additional provisions remain, two additional articles. I understand that Article XIX, on the special provisions to prosecute crimes committed during the Second World War, remains standing. But I still do not understand that with regard to Article IX, about that new proclamation form. Now we have these beautiful sets of Roompieces. The royal message says at the end "we hereby order you in God's holy protection" and "we, Willem-Alexander, by the grace of God, King of the Netherlands, Prince of Orange-Nassau, and so on, and so on." Surely it would be a good idea for the legislator to take up this mandate from the Constitutionalist and to work it out. The question to the Minister is: when will it be worked out and how will we ensure that such additional articles do not remain there since 1983, almost 40 years? That, of course, is not the intention of these additional articles. Also in the bill we have just dealt with, an additional Article 5 is added, which can only expire at a time to be determined by law, which assumes that that law will be passed. You also occasionally risk that there will be things like this that will stay there, when that is not the intention. Would it not therefore be appropriate, for example, to include in the regulatory instructions that they automatically lapse after 10 years or that there is at least a little more compulsion or obligation to actually work them out? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. I'm just gonna check with the Minister to see if she can respond right away. At least the table goes up. Yes, the Minister is ready. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, we are now discussing a proposal to delete some of the additional articles that have been worked out from the Constitution. I can be very brief about the content. These are now additional articles that have already been worked out. The proposal is only intended to remove unnecessary ballast from the Constitution. The additional articles remaining are about the Extraordinary Criminal Law Decision and the legal forms. The legal forms are concerned that the legal provision provided for in the article has not yet been affected. Nor does the article mention a time limit. I note, however, that a proposal for such a legal provision was launched a few years ago, as an initiative proposal was brought forward in early 2016. The cabinet awaits the examination of this initiative proposal in order to see whether or not this is being carried forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you. I don't think there's a need for a second term. This brings us to the end of this debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	We are also going to vote on this proposal next Tuesday. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes and we'll start with another law.
