ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Basic Registration Persons Act in connection with the introduction of a central facility to support the colleges of mayors and aldermen in the investigation of whether a person resident in the basic registration persons should be registered at an address in the municipality as well as the accuracy of the information concerning the address of a resident in the basic registration persons. I have read the title completely once, but you can confine yourself to 'the law we are discussing today'. Eight speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. It concerns legislation, so that means that I am not going to hold you to a speaking time. You've given up a target time. I am not going to limit interruptions in advance, but I would ask you to do them briefly and briefly, because we have a final time for this debate and also a time when the next debate will begin again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u2	As the first speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Rajkowski, who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First names, last name, gender, with whom you are married, your civil service number, your address: of all Dutch everything is stored in one place, in the Basic Registration Persons. That's important, because that's how different agencies know you are who you say you are, they can reach you or, if necessary, help you. So, as far as the VVD is concerned, this is not just about fraud detection. It is precisely for those who are in financial difficulties or to avoid misunderstandings in migrant workers that having the right data is the basis. From voting pass to rent fee: everything can be traced back to the BRP. At the moment, around 94% of all information in the BRP is correct. Then you think: that's a lot, because only 6% is wrong. But that 6% isn't really that small. For people who have to deal with it, it can have big consequences, because if something is not right in the BRP, you may miss out on fees or receive too much. So this system cannot afford any mistakes in any area. The VVD believes that solutions should be constantly sought to improve the quality of the system. How do you find that easy? So it's been experimented with for years. We're talking today about anchoring the pilot in the law. The success of the system is high. The project is therefore successful. That is why we support the proposal to make the project structural and secure it in the law, but with a number of important safeguards. For example, an independent decision-making algorithm is not used. There must always be a person in the loop who looks at and evaluates the situation, because a decision can have a major impact on the people themselves, surcharges and amenities. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State's proposal has been amended on a number of points, so that it is clear that there is no reference to nationality, place of birth or ethnicity. However, the VVD wishes to add a number of safeguards. First of all, the documents are always about human intervention. As far as we are concerned, it is not man, or the official, who intervenes, but the system intervenes and man must always lead. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In addition, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how they will prevent abuses, as in the case of the premium affair. Can you promise that the names of people who show that nothing is going on will be removed again, so that no lists of false signals are created that will lead their own lives? I know that Mrs Leijten from the SP is going to say something about this later, but I was first in order, so I thought: I would just say that I think this is an important point. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State proposes that so-called third parties, such as pension funds and health insurance companies, should be involved in improving address quality. This list of third parties remains to be determined by ministerial arrangement. It seems good to the VVD that this is also shared with the House of Representatives, just to go through this process carefully. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? Why is this going by ministerial arrangement anyway? In Article 3 (1) of the BRP Act, I read precisely that this must be done by general measure of administration. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? I am asking this question because we have tabled an amendment with the Christian Union, the PvdA and the D66 which regulates a provision. This means that the methods of analysis used are first shared with the Chamber so that we can find some of them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u4	I'm still seeing some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u5	This is about the National Approach Address Quality. Can the VVD indicate why this was ever set up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u6	We have also discussed this before the debate. Apparently, it is one of the projects set up following various frauds detected in the Netherlands. So I think it is also very good that we should look at how we can ensure that the system is fair to everyone, but that should certainly not lead to abuses. I'm sure that's what the next interruption is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u7	We'll see. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think it is important, also for this debate, that we in the evaluation... It's called an evaluation, but it's a report. We received this last year, and it says literally: "This approach involves examining addresses where people consciously or not register wrongly, because they benefit financially from it. By correcting the incorrect registration of the address, fraud is also being combated." So anyone here who says it's a service system is now taking a walk with reality. But my next question to the VVD is as follows. This system is enshrined in the law. That's what Mrs Rajkowski from the VVD said. When this system was presented in a draft legislative proposal to the Personal Data Authority, it found that data was unlawfully processed and that the bill, as submitted to the Personal Data Authority, was unlawful. Can the VVD indicate where the bill has been amended so that it is no longer unlawful?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you for this question. I think that's how you use certain data, for what purpose you do it and how it's eventually controlled. I know there is a list of selection criteria. For example, if your post is returned, the Tax Administration can think: gosh, if there's always a post or a voting card coming back, it can just mean that the person doesn't live there anymore. Those kind of signals seem pretty good to me. But at the moment when people may have accidentally misregistered without having the idea of making financial gain, it does not seem to me that people should be on a list of fraudsters. If Mrs Leijten is going to make proposals for this later, I will certainly look into it. That seems to me to be the intention of no one here in the Chamber with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u10	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u11	I think we agree. I will argue that in the same way. But we see in the opinion of the Personal Data Authority that if the other data, which are not concrete, and the need for the provision of this data is linked to the subjectivity of the administrative bodies and third parties, there will be unbridled and non-necessary data provision. Then all the alarm bells ring with me, just thinking about everything we've seen with the surcharges. I don't see where the bill was amended to prevent this. Wouldn't we be doing the right thing, is my final question to the VVD, to ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority to give an opinion on the bill that is now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u12	Well, that actually seems like a good idea. There have indeed been some adjustments made after that. I assume the concerns have been taken away, but we don't know that for sure. In this type of project, precisely because we are going to anchor it in the law, care is particularly important. So I think it would be a good idea to ask for another opinion on it, surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mrs Rajkowski is right to point out the premium affair. This is one of the examples, as well as other examples, where people have been horribly disadvantaged and discriminated against through the processing of personal data and algorithms. Mrs Rajkowski was right to point out that there must always be human intervention. It is very important that people are not identified as a "risk of fraud" on the basis of an algorithm by definition and that is simply implemented. In the opinion of the Council of State, but also in the reaction of other stakeholders to this bill, it is said that the safeguards to ensure that human intervention is actually there are insufficient in the legislative proposal. It's not in the bill. There may also be too little capacity in municipalities to implement this at all. Wouldn't Mrs Rajkowski agree that it would be a good idea to simply include a human intervention obligation in the law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u14	The way I read it, that's exactly the point. If it turns out that this is not clearly enshrined in the law, then we certainly need to look at it. But that is why I also started my argument that it cannot and should not be the intention that an algorithm not only lets a signal pop up, but also finally makes a decision that can affect people at home or with facilities or surcharges or that they come on lists that they should not be on. That is certainly not the intention. So if that human measure, that human intervention isn't well embedded in it, we're definitely watching it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u15	I am glad that Mrs Rajkowski is at least saying that she is also concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u16	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u17	The second point is that Mrs Leijten also touched on it. Mrs Rajkowski is going to table an amendment, which we will certainly support, to put things first to the Chamber as regards data processing. Now I have two concerns. The first concern is that the terms "data," "other data" and "additional data" are not further defined in the law. As a result, there is the possibility to include everything in a general measure of governance, so that everything can be shared. The second is, and I would also like a response from Mrs Rajkowski, that there is a sub-delegation. It can "bee or underneath." This means that many of these data are also laid down by a regulation after that. We in the Chamber have no influence on that. Would it not be better, I ask Mrs Rajkowski, to lay down the concept of what data should be shared in the law, so that we do not share any data that does not matter? And two: in order to demolish that sub-delegation, so that it is not covered up in an arrangement, after all, all the data are recorded which we find afterwards, for example, that it was biased or irrelevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u18	This is what I tried to refer to in Article 3.3 (1) of the BRP Act. It does say that this kind of thing needs to be arranged by AMvB. My amendment, which regulates the procedure for the submission of documents, will ensure that the Chamber is first informed of this. That is why I asked that question and tabled that amendment. I think it is important, precisely for the sake of care, that it passes through the Chamber so that we ourselves may be the human size and be able to press the red button.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u19	Finally, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u20	Finally. We will certainly support that amendment. That suspension procedure is important, but there is still a form of sub-delegation in it. What is laid down in general administrative measures can also be laid down in a regulation, which we as Chambers no longer have any influence on in advance and can no longer talk about. It is a good thing that this pending procedure is in place; my point is more: would we not do better to remove the possibility of the data processing in lower regulation so that we can keep an eye on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u21	I am going to think about what that could have consequences for, but I support the idea that we should prevent things from being decided in lower regulations, which means that we as a Chamber no longer have a view on them. But this is so deep in the law that I want to think a little bit more about it. But in itself, I support the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u22	I am pleased that the VVD Group also responds positively to a number of proposals. My party, as well as your party, asked in the written round to also provide the selection criteria previously used for profiles. That's where a list came out. I was wondering how you felt about that. A number of criteria are no longer applicable, but they have been used at some point, including single persons over 60 years of age born abroad and registered at a home address in the Netherlands. That could already be a possible selection factor. I wonder how you feel about that, also because we have had a discussion with each other over the last few weeks about what is and is not discriminatory. Would the VVD also qualify that profile that is no longer used but has been used in recent years as discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u23	I saw a long list of selection criteria that are no longer used, where I thought: why exactly did it work? The explanation was not very comprehensive, so perhaps it would be good to wait for the answer from the Secretary of State first. The criteria that are still being selected are things when you unsubscribe to your parents' address and register with a family member who lives around the corner. I understand that this is being selected in connection with getting extra tuition fees and that sort of thing. If it turns out that this is common, but not for the wrong purpose, then the selection criterion will be removed from the list. So I think that mechanism is very good. Why this one was used, I don't really know. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. If there is anything in between which we find that it would never have been allowed at all, then we are indeed having another conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u24	I had hoped that the VVD Group would simply take a position in the sense that it sees it as or not, but well, perhaps you will need more information in order to reach such a judgment. Does the VVD agree with the Christian Union that this can also lead to mistakes and wrongdoings, that this can lead to the municipality making mistakes in all its good intentions about fraud detection as well as unwittingly writing out people and helping them out of the rain in the drip? Do you agree? Do you also agree with the Christian Union that we really need to set up a safety net for where things are at risk of going wrong, for people who are at risk of entering the streets, who are temporarily in another place as a caregiver and who are no longer living at home because of human factors? Do you agree that we really need to ensure that every municipality is obliged to take care of this, so that we avoid accidents like we have seen in the past? Are you prepared to consider this in the form of a motion or amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u25	I'm always willing to think about that. Sure, mistakes will be made. Anywhere where algorithms are used and people work, mistakes can creep in. Then it must not happen that people end up on the streets and so on because of a procedural error. That should never be the intention. If there are any suggestions for better regulation of these safeguards and they are not yet in place, then I can always think with them. The debate has just begun, but I have already seen a whole list of motions and amendments from others. I also think it is important to look at everything as comprehensively as possible. If we're gonna take everything with each other now, what does that mean for the bill? Which way is it going? Where's the overlap? Where are there holes? That's why I really want to hear from the Secretary of State, with the official expertise she gets, what it means in its entirety. But of course, in the Netherlands this kind of thing is simply not allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u26	Finally, Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u27	Finally. I agree with you. I have also seen that there are a lot of amendments. I think there are a lot of motions in the making, really a lot. That is why I am asking this question to the VVD Group, even though I have not yet come out of it myself. Parties from left to right come up with all the amendments. Parties from left to right all have motions in preparation. Do you think that this law, in its present form, is ready to be implemented? What is your opinion on this, if you look at everything that is already pouring in, including from all the groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u28	With the information I have now, the VVD certainly supports this bill. We believe that with a number of adjustments we have tabled an amendment ourselves, and I have seen a number of other things come across about the human dimension of doing justice to ensuring that the figures contained in the BRP are correct. In the end, we all benefit from that. If, in the end, the document is to be amended and changed in such a way that it can no longer be recognized, then we will also think about it. That does not mean that we will automatically support it or not. As things stand at present, we certainly support it with a number of adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u29	You came to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Leijten, who will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. This bill is actually about the quality of addresses in the Basic Registration Persons. The bill mainly exudes that it has nothing, but nothing, really nothing, to do with fraud. It has a lot to do with service. We're also tracking down people who wouldn't otherwise be on the radar of the city. We have a nationwide approach to address quality. That has nothing to do with fraud, ladies and gentlemen! It has to do with service. Because that's how we track down people who aren't on the city radar. The question why they are not on the radar of the municipality could also be asked and answered in a different way. I'd like to return with you to 2014. In 2014, Bulgarian fraud took place. It was a time when cuts were made in the Netherlands and when the adage was: all the money the government spends must be legitimate and, above all, not wrongly go to people who take a walk with the rules, who are fraudsters. That is why the Ministerial Commission on Approaching Fraud was set up. That was a sub-committee of the Council of Ministers, led by the Prime Minister, under the direction of the Minister for Security and Justice, as it was then called, Mr Opstelten. There are all sorts of pieces about which are hypersecret, but there are also pieces about which have come out by the interrogation committee Children's care allowance. On the website informationpuntkindervanggelege.rijksoverheid.nl you can find a lot about this. Then you must go to the claim of the MC Approach Fraud of JenV, and especially to the documents 15 and 16. That's how deep you have to dig. But then you come to documents that say what that ministerial committee was really meant for. I have the documents here. This included a common strategy for reducing complexity and active information and communication, fraud-proof regulation, data exchange and file linking, strengthening intelligence position and risk profiles, and strengthening the coherence of supervision, enforcement and detection. All this had to lead to a targeted approach to underlying and column-crossing fraud phenomena. Here it was agreed that all departments, whether it was Education, Home Affairs, Tax Department or Justice, would share data with each other. This allows you to close the digital network that can be stretched around people who are fraudsters. Then you can pick them up, and then society becomes safer and we spend less money on people who walk around with all kinds of facilities. One of the things that also arose as a result of this ministerial committee... We talked about that ministerial committee at the Children's Care Allowance interrogation committee. As you can see, that gives me some insight into this. I think, the SP thinks, that this is actually a bit of a dark cloud above that ministerial committee. The National Approach Address Quality was also created. That system that we were talking about, so those good addresses in the Basic Registration Persons, "has nothing to do with fraud, ladies and gentlemen," but that service originated there. That committee was about dealing with fraud. We can pretend here today to be a good service, but this was born and originated from the idea of fraud detection. We can acquire, process and share people's data, because that's good for catching people who aren't so good for our society. That is the starting point of this Rural Approach Address quality. In the same Ministerial Committee Approach Fraud, legislative proposals and systems have also come forward that have not passed the test of legality. We also let the SyRI system run in the Chamber: we did not see that as an unlawful law, but it was taken out of the air by the judge, because it is an unlawful processing of data and not proportionate. People get stigmatized as fraud. In the case of childcare allowances, we have seen the enormous consequences of this. So today we are dealing with a National Approach Address Quality that we are going to put into the law, but which was born in the womb of that same committee, on which we are dealing at another level with the Ministry of the Interior, that they have to clean up all kinds of data that have been shared, fraud signals that have been shared, because they were wrong. But she has deprived people of all kinds of rights that we, as residents of the Netherlands, have used to. There will even be a parliamentary committee of inquiry on fraud policy and at the same time we are talking about this law. I don't feel so good about that. As far as I'm concerned, we're going back to that law. Improving the address quality is a good idea in itself. We have to ask whether this means is proportionate. It is not stated anywhere in this bill: "We have this approach. It has not been evaluated, but we really want that approach to have a legal basis and we are going to put it into the law." But if you put unlawful data processing into law, that doesn't make her legitimate. That's what I'd like to say to the Secretary of State. 93.8% of the addresses contained in the Basic Registration Persons are correct. So 6.2% is not correct. So we have now built up a tracking device in which 150 public authorities, governments and also third parties may share data from individuals in our country, from residents under this law. 150 authorities to detect 6.2% that is not good! Is this proportional? Does this approach a little domestically translated not mean shooting a cannon on a mosquito? That question is not being answered and we should answer it today. Profiles are made by signal providers. I didn't think of that myself. In these kinds of systems, I get a jargon... so you don't know what it's about anymore. I can't help it; I'm just reading one piece. It's such a beautiful prose. This is called "Evaluation Rural Approach Address Quality," but in the first sentence it says that it is a reporting. So it's not an evaluation; that's what it says, but it's a report. The first sentence also says: "This is a report to indicate that it is effective." That's not really mentioned anywhere, but it's just effective. That is what we establish at the beginning, so that we, as co-legislator, know for a moment that it is effective. Has that actually been investigated? I will come to that, because I think we should look into it. But this report says the following: it is about phenomena: "These phenomena are developed on the basis of expert insights, looking at available data sources, current legal frameworks and powers. If such an exploration gives the impression that a phenomenon is indeed visible in data and that the frameworks allow it, a risk profile will be developed." What the hell does this say? Someone's finding something suspicious. I think that's a phenomenon. You're gonna see if you can get that out of the systems a little bit, if you can make a profile of it, and if you can share it. But what is "suspected" and who decides? The Personal Data Authority therefore states: "Because other data are not concrete and the need for the provision of this data is linked to the subjectivity of administrative bodies and third parties, there may be an unbridled and unnecessary provision of data'. If such a thing is in an opinion of the Personal Data Authority, I would say: how, there is something going on! But what does the Ministry's decision note say on the basis of which this bill was made and a lot of questions have come from this Chamber? It says, "The Personal Data Authority is in agreement with the bill." How is that possible? Mr. Chairman. Just a few more facts. The National Approach Address Quality would have yielded 50.8 million euros in four years. How's that money built up? I don't see any justification for that. Is that due to fewer fees or what? At the same time, we see that it has cost 45.6 million in those four years. So the return in five years, if you look at cost-effectiveness, is 5.6 million. For this, 15,000 addresses are exchanged per year. Then I also come to the question of whether it is still proportional to make this possible in order to improve the address quality in the Basic Registration Persons. I think it's okay if we're gonna improve those addresses. Mrs Rajkowski has already mentioned: what if the voting passes come back from people we invite to vote, people who apparently do not receive their pass? Fine when a municipality starts working with that; that's very good. Do the same with an auxiliary team. Get people on the phone, stop by. "Mr. Van Nispen, you have not been able to vote. That's annoying because you can't exercise your democratic right, because your address doesn't seem to be right, what can we do? If there's anything going on, we'll help you." That's service. But this is then put into a profile, put into a phenomenon, and it's shared with a lot of people. Is that still proportionate, I would like to ask. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like us to take the time to deal with this bill, which we are starting today. As Mr Ceder has just said, there are a lot of amendments and proposals. In any case, we need to look at how they interact, but I would also like to have a new opinion from the Personal Data Authority. After all, they say that the risk of unbridled and unnecessary data sharing is very high. At the same time, the Ministry says: the Dutch Data Protection Authority agrees. Well, let's ask that out in a second opinion. I'm sure they can do that in the short term. Next, I would very much like to see a serious evaluation of the National Approach Address Quality, because it is not there right now. That could lead us to reconsider. I have also tabled amendments, because I know that sometimes it can happen quickly in the Chamber and that sometimes a request for a second opinion is not accepted. Then the SP proposes that this bill be introduced for two years and then expired. Then in those two years we have time to do that serious, independent evaluation of the National Approach Address quality. If it is then proportionate and desirable that we introduce it, it can always be proposed in a law. We also propose that human beings should always be watched. Now it's computer-controlled. It comes to the municipalities and mayors and aldermen must conduct the investigation on direction of the minister. There's always someone there who says, "Is this an investigation we're going to do?" And in order to be able to judge that correctly, the third amendment that we tabled as an amendment to the law aims to ensure that you always get the message. That's jargon, but it means that you say: we think that there should be further investigation into this address, because... that may be because there are voice cards coming back or because someone has signed out and went to live with an uncle or aunt around the corner. And there are a number of questions in the profiles where I get the strong feeling that they're not right. For example, there's a profile that says that parents may not be together anymore to lift the Tax Administration. That's a signal value that leads to 20% detection. But then the tax authorities did say: we do not think these two people should be separated, because we think they are lifting things up. The tax authorities then passed that on to the municipality, which is going to run a BOLO. And that's 20% effective. Then I really think: what have we been doing in recent years? Shouldn't we evaluate that before we put it in the law? Finally, I would like to put two more questions to this Secretary of State. In the BRP, the Basic Registration Persons, there is a lot of "Mrs Rajkowski said" but there are also a lot of people who can look into it. I've seen calls from people who wanted to know who had been watching their BRP over the past few years. Even the Customs and Ministries come from that, and for reasons such as: address, or nationality, or marital status, of which those people are really wondering: why? They're wondering why the Justice Department looked at their data in the BRP on that date. So the first question is who gets into the BRP, and on what grounds. Can the Secretary of State give a clear overview of this? And if that is not possible in the first-term answer, can it be done on paper? I would really like to receive that. It's all there, but then you come back on a next website and you have to click on it again. I just want it clear on paper: who is allowed in, on what basis and what are you allowed to look at? And wouldn't it be a good idea for people to be actively alerted about that? Finally, I would like to ask whether it would not be a good idea for someone who looks at the data of, say, Mrs Leijten and her civil status to indicate to the municipality in question why he is doing so. For example, the CBS looks at the data, including bourgeois status and the number of children. That's what they do for concrete research. Then the municipality can say: we allow it, because it is factual research and it is actually used. But perhaps we won't allow it from the Royal Marechaussee, because they don't have such a good reason. I would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State. That may also be in writing if it goes too far for today's treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you. Please stand still for a moment, because there is an interruption by Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u34	First of all, I feel appealed because I used to be a lawyer in other people's BRPs very often. That happened for very good reasons, but the Secretary of State will go into that further. You have just mentioned the proportionality of the law and that it has not been sufficiently weighted. I'm curious to hear the answers. I think you have made a number of proposals. Some of them I say, mwah, I don't know if we should. But of some I think: yes, I think they would make the law better. I'm gonna hang up a little bit anyway. I have just said to the VVD that it can also create abuses if you really go on fraud or investigation and therefore just harm vulnerable people. On the other hand, you also have people who actually commit fraud at DUO or the UWV. That's what I've come across. Not everyone who's at the wrong address is committing fraud. I fully agree with you; hence my critical attitude. I hear you saying it's not proportional. I would like to ask you whether you want to get rid of this law or this form of the law altogether, or do you say that the law should be more proportionate and should therefore be reduced? So I wonder what the alternative of the SP would be. How should we deal with this? For I agree with you that the aim is also to see whether public money is being spent lawfully. Yeah, I read that back. I wonder how you look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u35	I am very much in favour of people who fraud with government facilities, and who consciously do so, being fraud; a mistake is not fraud, but consciously doing so, and people who are deliberately doing so to crime, so to say, to undermining activity, as it is called, but that is, of course, a bit of concealing language and tax avoidance, being able to detect well and sharply. The question is how wide you eject the net in the hope that some fish will get into it. That has to do with proportionality. I think you can say quite rightly: there are specific risks here, because here, for example, 80% of the situations have shown that they are unlawful or perhaps a poignant case. I only read in the bill that the effectiveness of these signals, the transmission, the extra doing of research and the sharing of that data is 50%. Then I will come to my question of proportionality. I think that's too low. 50% is half. In an exam or exam, that's a 5. That's an "F"! That's too low. That is why I ask for rethinking, an evaluation of the national approach and a second opinion of the Personal Data Authority. But if we are going to vote on this next Tuesday, I will advise my group to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u36	That's enough for Mr. Ceder. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van Dijk. She will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The data in the Basic Registration Persons, the BRP, must be correct. All governments work with the data from the BRP. These data have rights and obligations for citizens. Unfortunately, there have also been forms of abuse here in order to obtain rights or to fulfil obligations. In 2014, the Ministerial Commission on Fraud asked the departments to propose solutions to combat different forms of fraud. This is indeed the National Approach Address quality going to be called. This LAA is what I shall call it, 'in other words, that addresses are being investigated on which people deliberately misrecord, because they gain an advantage. The conclusion of the 2020 review says that the national approach has proven itself in practice as a successful tool to combat address fraud and to improve the functioning of public authorities in the social field. There's a double of the bill in there, too. Because as an instrument for combating errors, the bill must meet high demands, namely the GDPR, which says: a citizen must not be subjected to an automatic decision and there must always be meaningful human intervention. Among other things, the CDA Group asked questions about this in the written consultation and several points have already been made here in the Chamber. It is good that the legislative proposal is clarified on this point. A signal that leads to the suspicion of address fraud can never automatically lead to adverse consequences for citizens. I am therefore very fond of Mrs Leijten's and Mr Ceder's amendments. I am curious about the appreciation, because it might indeed be a very good intervention to close this gap enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mrs Van Dijk talks about an "evaluation" of the National Approach Address Quality. That's on the cover, but the first sentence is: "The National Approach Address quality has proven itself over the past five years" without proof "as an effective method." The following sentence is: "This report explains what the LAA is, why the LAA is effective and what the future of the LAA is." I don't see any evaluation in that. Can the CDA indicate exactly what this has been for an evaluation? Or is it just a report? That's okay, but don't call it an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u39	I have heard your speech and I agree with you. I thought, "Yeah, she's just got a point here." It is indeed relevant what you call it. I think what you're saying affects reality more. It will not be deliberately framed, but I think you just have a point there. I can therefore very well follow your request for a firm evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u41	Then the other part of the conclusion: the National Approach Address Quality has proven itself in practice as a successful tool to improve the functioning of the government in the social field. That would be a nice development. I wonder whether the Secretary of State can explain how this is paying out today in terms of concrete improvements for our citizens and whether they can be better helped. However, we are wondering what the purpose of this legislative proposal is. That is why the CDA Group also raised questions about this in the written report. In response to these questions, the government stresses that the aim is to improve address quality. Then we read that the proceeds lie in the lawful granting of public services, the prevention of fraud by public funds and the more visible social problems. If I understand correctly, improving address quality is not a goal but a means. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. No tasks without money; I come to speak about the implementation costs of the proposal for municipalities. The VNG indicates that the cost of execution is twice as high as the current fee. At the start of the pilot, a fee of €70 per study was agreed for participating municipalities. In the meantime, the VNG has carried out an impact analysis showing that the average workload is double. It also appears that only until the end of 2023 budget is available. How does the Minister view these comments from the VNG? Is it prepared to adapt this task without money to a task with sufficient coverage, especially if we decide with each other that human intervention really needs to be better anchored? That too will have to be done by someone. A throbbing Basic Administration Persons is in the interests of all of us and not just in the interests of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u42	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz, who will speak on behalf of D66. It is not just a contribution, but it is the first time Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz has spoken here. That's what we call "the maiden speech." It is always a special moment, the first contribution in the House of Representatives. We have the informal appointment or unwritten rule that you cannot be interrupted at your maiden speech. So good luck with your maiden speech. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 25 years ago, I was a refugee in the Netherlands for the first time. I didn't think I'd be standing here today. As a technician, I'm someone who likes to dive right into the content. So I don't like to talk about myself, but this time, by way of exception, I do for a while. All the way from Iraq I came here, with first relief that we finally lived in a country where you can be yourself, where you can say what you think and where you can trust people. I got two important things from home. First of all, that is the importance of education, because freedom begins with education. In addition, I learned a spell: instead of complaining about the dark, light a candle. In other words, if something's not right, do something about it. From this point of view, I also became politically active, because how better to make a more beautiful world for your children than by actively contributing to it? Mr. Chairman. What I learned in my term as a councilman in Utrecht is that most people are good. Working out of trust and acting is best for everyone. Or, as Kant wrote it so beautifully, trade so that you always use humanity in your own person as well as in that of everyone else as a goal and never just as a means. As a human being, as a representative of the people and a co-legislator, I am giving this to myself as an order. I hope I won't be alone in that. Mr. Chairman. And now just the content. The amendment of the Basic Registration Persons Act, the BRP Act, is in fact a legal anchoring of the current nationwide approach to address quality. Let me say straight away: as D66, we are not very happy with the approach proposed by this law. We understand the purpose of the law, namely to improve the quality of the address in the government. Our questions relate in particular to three points. My group sees first of all risks in the approach to profiling as a means of improving address quality. In addition, D66 has doubts as to whether the human dimension is sufficiently secure. Finally, we have questions about how the citizens' right to information is enshrined in this law. First of all, a number of questions about the use of profiling as a means of improving quality. Is working with automated risk profiles the proportionate means of improving the target address quality? The cabinet states in the report that 93.8% of all addresses are correct. How much improvement does the Secretary of State expect with this law? When will she be satisfied? A score of 100% is unrealistic. There are always mistakes here and there. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State on the basis of which these risk profiles are created. Does this involve a human being? How can we as a room keep an eye on the choices of algorithms? Can both the general measure of governance and the ministerial regulation come to the Chamber? Will the lists of profiles be reviewed and reviewed by the Secretary of State each year? Is there room to modify algorithms if they don't work properly? And then guaranteeing human measure. When a signal arrives at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the preliminary investigation starts and citizens get a note in their file. We would prefer a note to be applied only when an address check is made and it is deleted when it is not necessary and not after 20 years. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the note will only be made in the case of an address search and not in the case of a preliminary examination? We also think it is important that this note should not lead its own lives and that citizens should suffer. It is not clear to D66 whether there are any consequences for people in other administrative bodies at the time of an address search. I'm just saying. Of course, it's just an address search. It should not be the case, for example, that you do not receive a benefit from the UWV because the municipality is still investigating something. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. How does this work? Then human intervention. The creation of risk profiles is based on statistical correlations, i.e. on probability calculation. No matter how good the instructions of an algorithm are, an algorithm can't tell whether it's fair, whether it's fair, whether it's possibly right or wrong. As a D66 we ideally want to see a person who judges whether something is right before the signals go to the lectures of B and W. The explanatory memorandum states that tackling fraud is also an objective of this law, while other documents stress that address quality is the objective. As far as we are concerned, improving the address quality in the BRP is the aim of this law and not the fight against fraud. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? Mr. Chairman. My third point concerns the right to information. According to the GDPR, everyone has the right to know that he or she is subject to an investigation. As D66, we want people to be informed in advance that research is taking place, preferably by telephone or in another personal way. A letter from a government to someone who's on welfare or something like that is always scaring the recipient, so I know from experience, even if you haven't done anything wrong. But it bothers us that people aren't informed at all. That is why we have in our amendment that all people should at least be informed afterwards about this and on the basis of which they have been the subject of research. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of things we would like settled in this law. First of all, after a year I would like to see an evaluation of this law, to check whether the law works in the way it was conceived. In this coalition agreement, it has been agreed that each law will be subject to an entry test after one year. I am considering tabling a motion on this point, but it would again be a motion if the Secretary of State was prepared to say that she would like to take an introduction test in a year's time, as described in the coalition agreement. I'd like a response. In addition, municipalities have indicated the obligation to respond to each signal as incriminating. We have seen that the number of signals has not reduced the number of feedback messages. We know that there may be capacity problems in municipalities. Can municipalities then respond with the indication "no capacity, thus not covered'? Is that enough? I'd like a response. Finally. Is the Secretary of State willing to explicitly include the municipal perspective of the story in the evaluation? Among other things, the question is whether the compensation of €70 is sufficient. Moreover, we do not want research to be the financial incentive to do more research, for municipalities. Mr. Chairman. These were a lot of questions. However, my group also sees positive points in this law. For example, through this law, abuses in the housing of migrant workers are better reflected, which would allow us to identify exploitation earlier, or, for example, whether people receive their voting cards at the right address. So there are both positive points in the law and those we still have doubts about. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments, but I am also curious to hear the answers from the Secretary of State. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I started my story with a plea to have a little more faith in each other. That fits well with the way I look at this law. Surely it would be much better if we, as a government, could work on the basis of confidence and if we, as a learning government and legislator, did not need to take the approach through risk profiling, especially with people most dependent on government aid? If we want to regain confidence from the citizens, then we must also trust them. I hope the Secretary of State takes that message to heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you very much. Please stand here for a moment. May I begin by congratulating you on your maiden speech? It was a wonderful story. It started very personally, but already after 1 minute and 40 seconds you went to the content. Maybe that says something about your modesty. Thank you very much for that. Congratulations on your maiden speech. You're an asset to the Chamber. I'm suspending for a moment to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u45	I give the floor to Mr Ceder, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz, and also thank her for her wonderful story. I wish her every success. Mr. Chairman. I am speaking this afternoon on behalf of Mrs Kathmann of the Labour Party. This week I heard the story of Mrs Geerdorf from the Molenwijk in The Hague, two kilometers from here. "Uncle," as the older woman is called by neighbors, lived there with her husband for years. When her husband died last year, she moved in with her daughter for a while, not to be alone. In the meantime, she lives in her apartment again. But she has to leave the housing corporation because the address was temporarily uninhabited. That's the way the rules are. As a lawyer, I've seen this before. On paper there is a false registration that needs to be corrected. But behind the paper are real people, with real problems and human factors, which the system did not take into account or can take into account. That goes for students, for carers. This applies to people who bring someone into their homes and who, if they give up, will be punished by the systems we have devised here. It's about migrant workers, it's about undocumented people. Here's my big concern with the bill, too. We are putting in place a system based on the good intention to have a careful basic registration and, in a sense, to prevent fraud. But is there enough attention for the people who it is? I think there are a few things that are important here, which I should like to mention. First of all, the purpose of the law. Some of my colleagues have already had a debate on this. What exactly is the purpose of the law? And what is that goal, according to the Secretary of State? In the explanatory memorandum, several are mentioned: correct and complete basic registration, the prevention of address-related fraud with facilities or the prevention of address-related avoidance of care. But it is also called solving social problems by bringing someone back into the sights of the government. What is the goal according to the Secretary of State? My group's concern is that the application of this law will focus too much on cost-saving and thus on preventing address-related fraud, while in many situations the address registration is incorrect, but often so much more is going on. Hence the question again: what is the purpose? Then there is a comment about risk profiles and signals. The law begins with collecting signals. Signals can be generated by the Ministry and implementing organisations, but also by third parties, such as health insurers. From the Ministry a notification is then made to the municipality. But on what basis do these reports come about? We know that in government agencies. That's settled in the law, too. For example, it does not profile on the basis of ethnicity. For example, what is profiled on is the degree of habitation. Then there are many people who are registered at a residential address with a small living area. I have a question about that. Because behind such a seemingly logical signal can hide a world of problems. Students who hire from a cottage milker where they can't register, so they need a registration address. Or migrant workers in a situation where there is over-inhabitation and exploitation. There is sometimes much more hiding behind such a dry finding of over-registration at an address than we think. The survey sent by the Secretary of State shows that in the past it also involved the receipt of supplements by several persons or the cancellation of a young person without a new address. It's best to ask questions about that. It is good that Mrs Rajkowski's amendment gives the Chamber an insight into the risk profiles. We would ask the Secretary of State to look critically at the profiles and always wonder what the story behind such a report is. What makes a situation serious and concrete? A signal that has been used in the past is particularly worrying for my group. As a single 60-pluser who has another country of birth called for social security benefits, that signal was sufficient for further research. What does the Secretary of State think of this profiling on homeland? Can it make it clear how often this signal has been used and with what consequences? We could not take that out of the answer given to our group. Mr. Chairman. Then the signals from third parties. As indicated, there may also be signals from third parties and implementation organisations. We do not know whether, and if so, what risk profiles they use. Can the Secretary of State give a guarantee that signals from third parties will not be based on risk profiles of ethnicity, nationality and place of birth, or risk profiles that are otherwise discriminatory or, for example, aimed only at people with lower incomes? If it is not able to guarantee this, it should be possible for third parties and these parties to be able to base their signals on risk profiles. Depending on the answer, I have a motion on this point in preparation. Mr. Chairman. It's already been about human intervention. For the Christian Union, this is an important core of the proposal. We are therefore looking at the Council of State. That is why, together with Mrs Leijten, we have tabled an amendment. I have a question for you. If the Ministry now finds that there are municipalities where virtually every notification leads to an address inquiry, and therefore there is de facto automatic decision-making, will there be a discussion with the municipality concerned to explain that this is not the intention and that this is not the intention of the law? I would like a commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. I am going towards the final points and then first of all aid. Let aid prevail rather than the fight against fraud. The report goes from the college table to the investigator. In fact, it has to establish whether there is indeed an incorrect registration of the address. The toothbrush check, that's how I imagine. Here lies the greatest concern, but also the greatest opportunity. I will come back to the beginning of my contribution: the resolution of social problems is also an objective of this law. That's how it's described. In the case of large-scale fraud, it is obvious that the municipality intervenes, but at least the aim must be to keep people on track. My group fears that this will be different in practice, so that a person who does not have a permanent address will no longer be able to rely on social security and the rain in the drip. The examples in recent years are endless. Because, whether you correct an address or not, the problems that are causing the incorrect or not address registration remain. I therefore look hopefully at the municipality of Utrecht, where the municipality also uses signals to combat abuses, such as poverty, neglect, over-inhabitation or exploitation. But my concern is that not every municipality will do that automatically, also because this approach does not produce that much money at all, but it does mean a lot of tasks and a lot of implementation. In 2019, both costs and benefits were around 12.5 million euros. This may lead to the risk that municipalities will be less likely to work on the social problem, which will take time. How does the Secretary of State see this risk? And what about the finances? Mrs Van Dijk also indicated that. Because if municipalities also want to tackle the social problem, such as the delivery of a letter address there where necessary, also because of the law that entered into force from 1 January of this year, then that brings with it time, energy, people and therefore money. But I don't read that back. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? On this point, too, I have a motion in preparation. Finally, Mr President, the letter addresses. I have just briefly mentioned that. First of all, I wonder whether profiling is going to take place on this or not. That doesn't make any sense to me from the pieces. What exactly is the purpose behind this for the Secretary of State? For the Christian Union Group, it is important that people can get a letter address if they need to. This legal obligation for municipalities entered into force on 1 January and we are pleased with it, because a letter address can provide a start on the road to recovery. Does the Secretary of State also observe that this obligation is met and that municipalities do not send people from the locker to the wall because it is difficult to prove that you are really entitled to a letter address in that municipality without a place of residence or a place of residence? There is my concern: that we correct addresses and put people on the streets, in the theoretical expectation that they can get a letter address, but point municipalities to each other because they cannot prove on which bank a person has slept longer than the other person who has no right to social security. I hope we can handle this. I look forward to the answer. On that basis, and also in the light of the appreciation of the amendments, we shall consider what the group's position is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My congratulations, too, to Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz. I hope we're all gonna light up a lot of lights here. That's quite necessary. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Basic Registration Persons Act. The purpose of this amendment is to support municipalities in the investigation of the accuracy of address data in the basic administration, in order to improve address quality. Today's central question is whether this change of law is proportionate and whether citizens' rights are adequately guaranteed. We, as GroenLinks, have a number of fundamental questions with regard to the legislative proposal. I am in the debate here and I am very glad that a lot of my concerns have already been shared. So part of my contribution is repetition, but we're gonna do it anyway. We have often and rightly talked recently about restoring public confidence in the government. That question is also relevant to this bill. After all, it is about personal data of citizens that the government must deal with carefully. It is also about how we, as a government, deal with citizens. The starting point should be trust and not the other way around. Mr. Chairman. The present proposal sets out how public authorities should deal with situations where there may be doubts as to whether address data are correct. Where there are doubts with an administrative body, this should be reported to the Minister of BZK. In practice, this is done at the National Institute for Identity Data. This notification is then sent to the municipality and it is decided whether a preliminary investigation will be carried out and possibly further address research. On this trial, I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, we are also talking about human intervention in these investigations. In what way is it ensured that there is always a meaningful human intervention? Colleagues have already mentioned this. In other words, how do we ensure that automated notifications do not lead to automated decisions where citizens may be wrongly presented as an address fraudster? The Council of State also commented on this in its opinion. The Council also states that meaningful human intervention should be incorporated into the law. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. Finally, on this point, I would like to ask how the Secretary of State is going to ensure that meaningful human contact actually means looking at it on a case-by-case basis. How can human intervention also be based primarily on the advice or notification proposed from various algorithms? How do we ensure that the official in question, who has to make the assessment, always keeps an open mind on the situation and is not affected by the proposals made from the system? Mr. Chairman. Another concern of my group is the risk profiles that can be used. In addition to reports from administrative bodies on the possible incorrect address data, the Minister himself can also generate signals on the basis of risk profiles. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly how she sees it. In what way are these risk profiles established? What selection factors can be used for this? Can there be concrete examples of this? Does the Secretary of State share GroenLinks' concerns that risk profiles can make sure that citizens are wrongly placed in the suspect bank on the basis of assumptions and assumptions? It is precisely vulnerable citizens that can be affected. GroenLinks is not convinced at all that this power is proportional in the law. That is why we have the fundamental question: should this possibility be incorporated into the law at all? Then I have a few other concerns that my group has raised and which have already been mentioned by several colleagues here. The law talks about reports from so-called third parties. Those are non-governments. These third parties can also use risk profiles, as we can see in the report. I would like to receive a further explanation from the Secretary of State on how to determine when third parties with a so-called weighty social interest are involved. Why is it necessary to ensure that they can also make notifications on the basis of these risk profiles? What arrangements are made with these third parties on which risk profiles they may use? And how is it prevented that these risk profiles may contain discriminatory data? Mr. Chairman. When an address search is carried out, the citizen always has the right to see his file. However, this right is far from known to every citizen. Can the Secretary of State promise that citizens who are being investigated will always be actively informed about their rights during such an investigation? Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt that we all know the examples of our own experience of administrative acts where we have been mistaken, or where we have just failed to understand how to fill out a form. We can all make a mistake. Therefore, the starting point of government should be that if data is incorrect, this has not always been deliberately mistransmitted. It is precisely vulnerable people who can do this more often than those who do it more socially and economically. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it feels that municipalities should deal with errors in the basic registration? Does it share the view that wrong information in the basic registration should always look at the possible causes and should not be sanctioned too quickly? Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the letter addresses of people who are homeless and/or homeless. These are often vulnerable groups for whom administrative acts are not always easy. Can the Secretary of State explain why the cabinet believes that this group should also be covered by the present bill? As a result, I also have a question about requesting letter addresses. In the recent past we regularly received messages from people who would like to request a letter address to arrange, for example, a health insurance or another provision. Due to many practical obstacles and sometimes also because of unwillingness, they cannot obtain a letter address from municipalities. How are we doing with this, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Does it have the impression that these problems belong to the past or are there still bottlenecks? I would like to see a state of play on this matter. So much for my input. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term is Mr Van Baarle of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, on behalf of the DENK Group, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz for her maiden speech. Nice talk! Mr. Chairman. A lot of people in the country are worried about what the government is doing with their data. What does the government know about me anyway? What is stored about me? Who is that actually shared with? What decisions are being taken about me on the basis of that information? Am I seen as a risk or perhaps discriminated against on the basis of a risk model or algorithm? Or is I even regarded as a fraud on the basis of certain data? The surcharge crime, SyRI, the black lists at the Tax Office that were shared with all kinds of parties, the fines that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has to pass on to public authorities because they do not comply with the law in the processing of personal data, make it clear that these concerns are not doom scenarios, but often the bitter reality, and sometimes even conscious policy. It is one of the main objectives of DENK to protect people from this, to ensure that no one is discriminated against or harmed on the basis of an algorithm or processing of personal data. Mr. Chairman. With that look, we are also looking at today's bill. A legislative proposal that has indeed been referred to just now is the result of the 2014 Ministerial Fraud Commission. Then at DENK the alarm bells really ring, I have to tell you honestly. A bill that empowers the government to monitor the registration of people and assess the risks of fraud on the basis of algorithms and risk models. A bill that allows all kinds of personal data to be shared with the minister to create profiles on the basis of which people are selected. That kind of thing leads to great worries at DENK. Because it is often our people who suffer from this, not the people from the richer communities, not the people from the good neighbourhoods. It is often our people who are the victims of this. And since they're our people, the alarm bells are gonna ring. DENK therefore wants us to build safeguards against this in order to protect people's privacy and protect people's fundamental rights. How do we prevent algorithms and risk models from becoming monsters that discriminate against people in practice? Then I look at a number of risk factors and profiles that have been used in the past in the project address quality. Then I really ask the Secretary of State: how can it be that the bill says that there is no suspicion and that it is not based on the fight against fraud? So much distrust when it comes to young people living out of their homes, who, because they are young people living out of their homes, are being dragged through the bush. But Mr Ceder was also right to refer to people over 60 years of age who were born abroad. When I read that, it just made me really sick. So it actually says that if you're an older person with a migration background, you're by definition a risk. By definition, you'll be pulled through the mangel. By definition, you'll be a trigger for investigation. In all honesty, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how can you insist that that is not discrimination? How can you maintain that it is in line with Article 1 of the Constitution that you are selected just because you are an older person with a migration background, which is in line with the principle of non-discrimination? I don't think that's possible. I think we live in a country where we shouldn't judge people where their crib has been. How did this happen? How did it happen that we're running people through the bushes on the grounds that they were born abroad? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of what data the minister is allowed to process from people in the country on the basis of this bill. In the bill, parties, such as the Tax Administration, the UWV, DUO and youth recruitment, may all share information with the minister if they have reasonable doubts about the registration of people. First of all, the question is how exactly that reasonable doubt is defined in the law. When exactly is there reasonable doubt? How do we prevent parties, such as a pension fund, from accidentally sharing data about people with the minister? Secondly, what exactly do these administrative bodies provide to the Minister who would be required to carry out their duties? What exactly is the additional information that designated third parties can provide to the Minister? Isn't the wording of the law of this information too broad, so there is a risk that a lot of irrelevant information about people in the country will be shared later? The Dutch Data Protection Authority rightly points that out. It talks about the risk of unbridled and unnecessary data transmissions. How is the Secretary of State going to rule out that risk? Nota bene concerns the UWV and possibly pension funds, youth rehabilitation, health insurance companies, all of which collect very, but also very sensitive information about people. How do we ensure that this information does not end up where it does not have to end up at all? We now see too few guarantees for that in the law. How exactly is people's right of access regulated? If we offer so many opportunities that even third parties, such as pension funds, may be able to share information about people, how do we ensure that people know that even if their insurance society shares information with the minister? Are they even gonna know that? Mr. Chairman. I'll stay with those third parties. In the event of settlement, the Minister may designate those third parties. In other words, the minister can appoint health insurance companies or pension funds to share information about the registration of people in the country. The question has already been asked: why is this regulated? Will the Chamber still be able to monitor what happens if those health insurers are possibly appointed? Are these agencies, such as youth rehabilitation, pension funds and health insurance companies, actually equipped to play some kind of police officer on how people are registered in the BRP? That's not the primary task of these organizations, is it? Now we read that these third parties may also need to apply risk profiles. Healthcare insurers are there to provide people with good health insurance and not to inform the Minister of people who may pose a risk under such a selection mechanism. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the data processing. I would like to draw your attention once again to the example that has been selected in the past of whether people were born abroad... born abroad. The power to draw up signals about the accuracy of registration based on risk models, personal data and algorithms raises the question of how the Secretary of State will ensure that people's privacy and fundamental rights are respected. We are strongly asking for non-discrimination, but also for the prevention of indirect discrimination. We know that the ban on selecting nationality and ethnicity often creates the tendency of parties in the country to select indirectly on it, to approach ethnicity and nationality through something that is correlated with it. That is, therefore, indirect discrimination. How is the Secretary of State going to rule that out? Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State also rule out that the algorithm that is to be applied will ever be self-learning in the future? We read in the explanatory statement that this is not happening now, but can she assure us that we are never going to apply a self-learning algorithm? These are black boxes on which we can lose control. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of human intervention. Previous speakers have also asked questions about this. The Council of State, the VNG and the NVVB are rightly concerned about this. We agree with the point that it would be better to include an obligation in the law that this human intervention should be introduced. I think that is an amendment by Mrs Leijten. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question about what is so beautifully called "sub-delegation," the difference between regulating something at or under a general measure of governance. I'm not a state lawyer. It's complex matter. But why did the government actually choose to make it possible for crucial data such as data processing to be recorded both by general measure of administration and by scheme? What elements do we see as a Chamber with the pending procedure introduced by Mrs Rajkowski's amendment? And what elements do we not see because they are designed in lower regulations? Why is it necessary and desirable at all to apply this sub-vote? I would like a reply from the Secretary of State, because the Council of State also points to this point. We really have a serious question as to whether it is better to delete the possibility of sub-voting at all and to ensure that we as a Chamber simply get to see everything. Isn't that better, since we're dealing with something so sensitive that has led to crimes like the supplemental affair? Finally, Mr President. DENK is deeply concerned about the impact of this bill on the fundamental rights and privacy of people in the country. There are several amendments to improve human standards and safeguards in these areas. DENK will support these amendments. We also have an amendment in which we ask for an evaluation. I was really surprised that there was not even an evaluation clause in a bill that could have such profound consequences for privacy and fundamental rights. I ask the Secretary of State how that is possible. In this evaluation we also call for explicit attention to respect for fundamental rights, privacy rights and non-discrimination. We look forward to a response from the Secretary of State. We also have a motion, which we would like to announce. In doing so, we ask the Secretary of State to check all algorithms and risk selection models in the implementation of this bill in accordance with non-discrimination protocols that we have drawn up, including, for example, the non-discrimination hand-out by design. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you. That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has requested that 15 minutes be suspended so that it can prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u52	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, of course, my congratulations to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz for her maiden speech and her arrival in the Chamber. I would like to get the answers to the questions raised by Members to be preceded by a brief introduction and then answer them in a number of blocks: initially on how the system and risk profiles work, a little more on the information position, human intervention, proportionality, the legislative process, how we can prevent abuses and, of course, the role and capacity of municipalities. But I'd like to start with the following. With everything I have learned over the past two years, I have had many of the questions you have asked when reading this law and when judging and also discussing with my own team. Of course, I'm going to go over all these questions with you. But it's the same points I've learned in recent times. That's about what can go wrong when you use, share, and draw conclusions from people's data. What can go wrong if you use an algorithm to assess? What can go wrong if there are perhaps human assessments but not of the quality that makes sure that a good decision is actually made? I have seen all this around the surcharges, of course, in many very poignant situations. I am therefore also committed to walking through this law with you, which is why I will pay a great deal of attention to it in the reply. What's in the law? What can we do with it? But, above all, how can we incorporate the safeguards in the law and, of course, in the regulations that apply to them in such a way that we cannot get into a situation where data sharing and determining and determining good address quality can also lead to very negative consequences that are unrecoverable and put those people in trouble rather than doing the right thing? For that is the most important reason for me to discuss this law with you and to ask you to adopt this law. There is also a very important positive side to it. After all, a very good address quality is very important, not only for a lot of facilities, but also because it enables us to restore it where things go wrong and people get in trouble. As far as I'm concerned, that's the lead. So I understand very well the questions you have asked, and I understand the concerns you have. I also understand that these concerns stem from what has been described as the basis of this law, namely the work on combating fraud and risk profiles. I am pleased to see that we have fortunately amended this law to ensure that it is not only about that theme, but also about ensuring that we have good address quality. Then what is the reason or the importance of this law? Of course, that's about the address quality. The BRP is a basic registration that is very much based on; many of you have already indicated this. The importance of a good BRP and of that registration is therefore leading and should also be leading. This is about address quality. It's about making sure that the address data in the BRP really makes sense, so that everyone who lives there has the right registration and has proper access to full participation in society. That was mentioned by some of you. So that's about being able to vote. This is also about combating, for example, occupation by migrant workers in order to protect migrant workers on the basis of, among other things, the research done by Mr Roemer. It is also important that you can claim all kinds of benefits and care, and that you can also get welfare benefits and so on. Therefore, a good registration in the BRP is necessary. To achieve this, it is of course necessary that this law not only does that research and helps municipalities to ensure that the quality of basic registration is in order, but also that we build in sufficient guarantees, especially if we are going to use algorithms, profiles and research to ensure that we get more information out of the water. Therefore, this law also needs frameworks, and it also sets frameworks. Similarly, and this will have to be regulated in the AMvB, good agreements will have to be made with the so-called signal providers. Those are the agencies that provide information to the Ministry of the Interior to start investigating addresses. We must ensure that there is full transparency. It needs to be clear about which profiles it's dealing with. Those profiles should also be shared with your Room first. They should also be shared with the AP, the Personal Data Authority, which should be able to look at them, so that it is clear how which forms of investigation are conducted on the basis of which data. Of course, everything that the GDPR and us and you are not allowed to do must be excluded. Of course, we have to do such an introduction test. It is not for nothing that we have said, on the basis of the parliamentary interrogation committee's investigation, that we should not only take a test at the beginning of the introduction of a law, the so-called execution test, but also an introduction test, and that we should carry it out within a year. We also build a guarantee on human intervention. Many of you have said more about this, and some of you have amendments in preparation. After this introduction, I would like to turn to the questions that have been asked by you. I'll start with the block on how the system works and the risk profiles.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u54	But before you do, there is an interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u55	This Secretary of State knows better than anyone what can happen if wrong data is used and that data is shared and misused. Nevertheless, she says: good address registration is important for combating abuses in labour migration and for good service provision. I would like to put the following to the Secretary of State. Combating abuses in the event of labour migration is mainly due, for example, to the release of the link between employership and housing regulation. It also has to do with good service to people who are in debt or are not in the picture with the municipality, where there are actual aid teams in a municipality that go to those people. Surely it can only be a means of achieving good service. Surely it is not the only thing that is possible, for example, to detect abuses of labour migration? It's just a cure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u56	Sure, it's gonna take a lot more than that. There can be a lot more. But one of the themes involved in labour migration is, for example, that people are housed, whether by their employer or through their employer, in a place that we do not like, with a lot of people on a very small surface under conditions that we do not want. It is precisely this kind of data that we can also get out of the water with the help of this. With this we can put the municipalities to work to do so. I would also like to say that we should do this together with municipalities in particular. They will have to take up the follow-up. With this law we make it an obligation, but I am also pleased to know that more than 80% of the municipalities are already participating in the system, because they can then get that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u57	What I have difficulty with is that these kinds of abuses, which can be traced if you look at whether the data is true from where someone lives, are used to justify this whole system, while you're asking "knocking the data from where someone lives?" can also use other means. For example, a municipality knows where a house is sold and a permit is issued to accommodate the whole lot, which means that a lot of migrant workers come to live there. A municipality, for example, really knows on the basis of reports in which uninhabitable property may still be inhabited, because it is seen by locals, for example, that people go in there or that there is garbage in front of the door. So you can also use other signals to achieve the same goal. I would ask the Secretary of State not to present this, in view of all the concerns we have expressed in the Chamber about whether this is the justified means of achieving these important social goals if: this is what it is doing. No, this is what it can do. There are other ways of achieving the same results. You don't necessarily need that National Approach Address quality for that. I'd really like the Secretary of State not to be too easy on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u58	The core of this law is about address quality. Good address quality is that the person registered there actually lives there. This is important for a very large amount of facilities. That's one. It may, among other things, lead to the prevention of abuses. That is why it is important. However, it is also very important to review each and every one of them, so I hope to convince Mrs Leijten a little bit more about what we want to investigate, what the profile is, whether it is proportionate and whether it is appropriate to look at, for example, over-inhabitation in relation to this subject. If we want to use a certain profile for address quality, we're going to include it in one of those AMvBs. That is what we are going to work out in the ministerial arrangements. It is only when we have decided that that is right that we are actually going to do so. With this law we say: we have to work very hard to get the quality of our address administration, the quality of the BRP, in order to get it right. That is the main objective of this law. There's still a lot going on next to the LAA to get that done. Think of an agency that keeps getting letters back. Such an authority can then ask the municipality: can you see if this person still lives there? Think, for example, of the ABP or the Tax Administration. But with this system we can do further research with which we make sure that the quality goes up for it and with the municipality. We will always go in consultation with the Chamber to determine exactly what we are using it for, exactly what profiles we are using and whether it is a sensible reason. This also brings us to the questions I would like to say a little bit more about later, such as: which of these profiles do you want to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u59	To conclude on this point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u60	We'll talk past each other. On every profile we can see at micro level whether it is proportional or not, but the step I want to take comes before that. Do we need that Rural Approach Address quality, with the entire data gathering, processing it into profiles and then sharing it? This is because no research is carried out, but it is a computer system that instructs a municipality to carry out research. Is that system proportional? One of the societal goals that this should achieve is good address quality. In 7% of the situations, it is not in order. Is it then proportionate to set up a system that costs 60 million in four years? You can say yes or no. Then we reach people in social problems who commit fraud. But could we have achieved it in other ways, perhaps more low-threshold, perhaps much less stigmatizing or with a higher score? I am thinking, for example, of not hitting 50%, but hitting 80%. With this you have automatically scaled the human size, because you do not work on the basis of all kinds of computer systems. What I would like to give to the Secretary of State is actually the question I have asked. Is this system necessary at all? Why don't we have that discussion before we talk about this bill? I'd like to ask the Secretary of State not to sell the system if necessary. I would also like to ask the question: do we need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u61	I think that's the same question. The question is: do I think this system is necessary to increase address quality and thereby prevent or remedy all kinds of additional situations? Yes, I think this system can play a good role in increasing the quality of addresses, but I realize that using this system we are introducing risks. To this end, we need to build in safeguards to ensure that those risks do not arise in practice. There are also other ways you can increase the address quality. They'll be deployed, too. If there is always mail coming back, if there is no response or if someone's voting card comes back, it is also addressed by a municipality to ensure that the address quality is increased. It is our conviction that it is important to do so, but once again, only under the right conditions to prevent things from happening that we do not want to happen in this country. We do not want data to be shared unnecessarily or to be profiled unnecessarily and wrongly. This law and the associated AMvBs are about those safeguards and the transparency that we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u62	I have a question about the way out of the bill. That's what the Secretary of State started her introduction with. The written round asked about the effectiveness of the previous approach, the LAA. The government then replies that it has delivered 50.8 million in benefits, i.e. benefits in the form of adjusted benefits and adjusted allowances. If a question is asked about effectiveness and an equal answer is given in terms of "we have been able to adjust benefits and supplements," that is one of the criteria by which the effectiveness of that approach was assessed. How can I be confident that the fight against fraud and enforcement in the area of benefits and supplements will be the starting point of this law if there is no mention of improving the citizens' perspective, improving the lives of citizens and improving the provision of services to citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u63	You have an important point. The departure of this law was indeed the committee on the fight against fraud. It is about how we can ensure that we can prevent fraud through better address registration. I am not saying that the fight against fraud is not an issue for this government to work on. I think many of you have also said: if there is abuse, you have to deal with it. What we intend to do with this law, what I intend to do with it, is not primarily to combat fraud. I aim to ensure that the address quality we have in the Netherlands is increased. Of course it sounds nice when you say that in 93% of cases it's okay. But if you're going to look at it in numbers, there's still a lot of things that don't add up. This can lead to people being unjustly unable to use facilities. Let me give you an example from my previous portfolio. I was on the phone with Supplements. Someone called and said: I have just moved into this rental house, I would like to say rent subsidy: to apply for a rent allowance, but it is not possible, because according to the basic administration someone else still lives at this address, namely the previous resident, who had not yet signed out. Those are exactly the things you do it for. You want someone to be able to make sure that the right person is actually registered at the address and that they are also able to apply for a surcharge. So it's about that quality. But I agree with you that the starting point and parts also assess how you look at this law... Is it relevant exactly how much it delivers in euros? As far as I am concerned, that is not irrelevant, but it is not at the heart of what we are talking about here. Even if it costs money, I find it interesting to ensure that we have a good basic administration. If that costs money, we should simply put it in there and so we should also give this question to local authorities in a moment's time the opportunity to actually do so. It is about the quality of this registration. It doesn't have to be the first starting point, even though the origin of this law is absolutely there... I don't think I need to convince you how much suffering I've seen when you start with such a story and where that can lead if you then, for example, make business cases for anti-fraud. That is very undesirable and we must prevent it at all times, but the core must be the quality of the BRP. That is so incredibly attached: your right to vote, whether you can get a benefit and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr Van Baarle for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u65	The Secretary of State can, of course, state here that that is her purpose. Given the experience of the Secretary of State's previous portfolio, I believe her when she says she knows what this kind of thing can cause. But the essence of the point is that the law is based on the Ministerial Fraud Commission. It is an instrument to combat fraud. If you rig an entire device to fight fraud, it is not enough to use the same device in the same way and then say that it serves a different purpose. The device is designed to combat fraud, period. That's the starting point. Where are the guarantees that an instrument based on the fight against fraud, which is no longer intended to serve human standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u66	By defining with each other the purpose of this law, namely that it is about the quality of the address and improving the quality of the address in the Netherlands. Also: by making each other very transparent, recording and having the AP test the method we use to achieve that. And most importantly, as far as I am concerned, by discussing it with you in the Chamber and not doing it on the basis of an arrangement that is not clear or transparent. It is therefore a question of guarantees, transparency and the subject of the human dimension, which we shall be discussing in a moment. That's the point. We want to achieve something here about our Basic Registration Persons. We want them very well, because that is incredibly important for this country. We want to prevent this from being misapplied in one way or another, either by the signal providers or by the ministry or by the municipalities. The aim is not to combat fraud, but to ensure good address quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u67	To conclude on this point, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u68	Yeah, rounding it up. I refer to the point made by Mrs Leijten. There has been no thorough, major evaluation of the LAA. Without proper evaluation, a device based on the fight against fraud will be used for another purpose, namely to increase the human dimension. That brings me to the question of how we know that this way of working is appropriate to achieve that, if we have never analysed in the past whether it is appropriate to serve human measure. In the past, it has only been analysed whether it is right to go after people's benefits. That's been analyzed. That's what it was meant for, but not for that other governance mentality. How can I rely on that, then, is my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u69	What is important is that we do so by indicating what we expect this device to do, what it is allowed to do and what it is not allowed to do. We need to be very sharp about that. With each other, we really need to do that introduction test. With each other we have to watch carefully whether that happens what we want to happen. Let us also be clear about this: at the moment there is no legal basis for the work of this organisation. And I firmly believe that this legal basis will come into being, so that we can do exactly what we intended when we spoke to each other about the lessons we learn from the childcare allowance affair and so on, and so on, and so on. We must ensure that everything is done with a legal basis that contains all the foundations that ensure that we protect people and that we handle their data and their identity carefully. It is not about stigmatizing or chasing or discrimination against certain groups of the population, because that is not what this is all about. It must be about ensuring a good quality of our basic registration, which is so important for the implementation of a lot of public service tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u70	I am going to ask Members if the interruptions can be a little shorter. I ask the Secretary of State if she would like to answer a little bit less, although the benefit of her reactions may be that other questions are already being answered. I give the floor to Mr Ceder for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u71	More than 90% of the address data in the Netherlands is correct. It is the ambition to increase address quality. We have seen that the ambition lies in certain benefits. What does the Secretary of State expect of the introduction of this law? What increase in correct address data is it expecting? Will it be 100%? Are we rising by 2%? That, too, is the question: is it proportionate to impose all kinds of safeguards on this legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u72	Of course, I can't know that in advance. The amendments and the motions announced are about an evaluation, but I have already mentioned the introduction test. Then we have to draw that conclusion? Does this actually mean that those numbers, that the quality of that basic registration actually goes up? Otherwise, it's not worth it. Then you do all kinds of things that don't lead to it helping. Again, we also have other tools to keep the quality in order, for example because organisations report to the municipality when they get mail back all the time. There are other signals coming in as well. The essence is that we need to see if this actually does what it has to do. Again, the goal is to increase quality. If this is the instrument that shows real effects, then it's what we have to do. If that is not the case, we are dealing with a new consideration. Then perhaps we should use our efforts, our time and our money in a different way to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you for the answer. I understand the Secretary of State. If after one or two years it turns out that it doesn't work, we have to be prepared to say that it didn't bring what we expected of it. The increase could be too minimal. Then it'll be withdrawn. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take that step? Mrs Leijten asked whether we should not only evaluate after one year, but also set a horizon? If it turns out the law is not effective, it just has to come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u74	I'll go into that in a minute, but I have a basic rule. If you pursue a particular policy, if you choose a particular method, if you as a government do something that does not have the effect that you are aiming for or any other very nice effect, if it does not help to increase the quality of basic registration, then, as far as I am concerned, we should not continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u75	You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u76	We've been asked exactly how we're going to make those profiles. What we aim at with this law is that there are parties who can ask questions to the Ministry of the Interior to conduct investigations, because they think there is something going on with the quality of the addresses or the address details contained in the BRP. And we can do our own investigations. I have just said something about the importance of the quality of the information provided. Let me give you an example. Suppose the IRS provides information to the Department of the Interior based on research, or work, or what they've seen. Then we must be sure that the way in which the Tax Administration has done that work actually meets all the requirements we want to impose on it. That's the first thing I'd like to say. I would also like to make good agreements with the suppliers of this information, also known as signal organisations. The second is that we can then conduct investigations ourselves, on the basis of profiles that we formulate. Those studies can indeed be about making a match between the amount of square meters that a particular house has and the number of people living there. Then we can see if we have the idea that that is actually true or not. I also like to say the following. When drawing up these profiles, of course, there is always an assessment of people. But we also need to record that drafting. We want to do so in such a way that it is not only transparent, but that your Chamber can look at it as well. Then, if those selection profiles are established and used, that information is passed on to a municipality. A municipality always has the task of ensuring that it makes an assessment, whether it will actually work on the basis of the signal it has received. Are we actually going to investigate this address? Do we see a reason for that? The municipality can also choose not to. And that's what's gonna happen. That can be because there are other considerations, or other information, or because there is another reason for a municipality not to. The research that a congregation does will always take place with personal and human intervention. Then, for example, by visiting a particular address, the question needs to be looked at: is it true that someone lives here or not? Or: is it true that the mail of a particular person comes back all the time, because this person apparently does not live here or is not present? This human dimension is also incredibly important, because of course it may well be that there is a situation that Mr Van Baarle might have been Mr Ceder; I am sorry, I forgot to mention it: there is someone who temporarily does not live at this address. We need to find out exactly what's going on here, whether there's a reason why someone isn't registered here or not. This research must be carried out properly by municipalities. There are instructions, ideas and systems, but it is very important that the municipality actually does so. The result of that investigation may then be "there is nothing wrong; it is correct; the address is precisely defined in the BRP," or "it is incorrect and action must be taken." In both cases, this must of course be recalled. By the way, when a signal is sent from us to the municipality, it is always on the basis of which profile it is, so for example the profile over-inhabitation. It is also important that the municipalities do not have to report back whether this has been established or not, or that something else has been found. We're also committed to not getting that information. The only signal we get back is "there's nothing going on; the investigation is closed" or "there's a change of address," or "we're going to change the address." This can then also be provided to the organisations that have access to the BRP. They do not get any information as to why there is a change. They're not getting any information on how exactly the address changed. They only get information that says: the fact that what was in it turns out to be wrong; this is the correction. Period. This is what they get without any information, and I am very committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr Van Baarle wants to do an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u78	I have a question about one of the first elements indicated by the Secretary of State, namely cooperation with what I think she referred to as the signaling parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yeah, those are the organizations that give information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u80	Right. There's a double risk of problems in this bill. There is a double risk of what you call institutional bias, I refer to it as discrimination not only in the application of selection mechanisms in the Ministry itself, but also in the signaling parties. They make a selection, and then they play it through. On what basis do they make that selection? The Secretary of State states that she is going to make agreements with those parties. Can she at least promise that she will send those agreements to the Chamber so that we can also check how these signals go and that this does not happen out of bias?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u81	Yeah, I'd like to make a commitment. I also think it is important that, if we have to indicate in the AMvB which parties we want to receive signals from, we should also indicate the conditions under which this should be done. I think this also gives clarity. We do not want a signal supplier to have us examine the quality of the address on the basis of the anti-fraud argument. That is also expressly excluded in the law; it should not be and should not be. That is why I want this to be well described in our regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thanks for the answer. Suppose such a signal is eventually picked up and investigated by the municipality, after which it turns out that the signal was wrong, that nothing was wrong, or that there was just a mistake or a lack of clarity. Then what happens to the name of the person on that list, to whom the signal was referring, or to that address? Will that information eventually be deleted so that lists don't lead their own lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u83	The signal's gone. Once the municipality receives information from us, the municipality determines whether an address is investigated or not. If that happens, at that moment there will be some kind of tick in the BRP that the address is under investigation. After the municipality has done the work and comes to the conclusion that it is all right and that nothing is wrong, the tick goes off again and all parties can see that nothing has changed. But there are two things that happen. The municipality must record what it has done in the context of its investigation in an investigation file. That's what the municipality should register. If a citizen asks if he has ever been the subject of an investigation, the municipality should be able to answer that question. Then she must be able to say yes to that and also show what happened. The second is: if we have given a signal about such an address, then we must register it. In the end, we must also register that nothing has happened, but we must also register whether an address inquiry has ever been proposed by us to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u84	I understand that this needs to be logged and tracked, because that's important in case someone wants to know if he's anywhere on a list and if his address has ever been investigated, or if a signal has gone to the municipality to investigate him. I get that. But how can we prevent these kinds of signals from coming together again in different places, in ministries and in different systems, so that someone can suddenly be identified as someone who is: something is not going well here? That's where the care is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u85	That is exactly the concern I understand very well. That also means that that signal must never go back to anyone else. So the county records and the investigation she did stay with the county. They can, of course, be seen by the person concerned, the citizen who has been investigated. The signal that something has happened, or in this case that nothing has to happen, is a signal that is further spread without any kind of information. The core is: the address has been examined, the check mark is going away, it's all right, there's nothing wrong. The reasons for this, the backgrounds of it, whether or not viewed by the municipality, are all not logged and not passed on to parties using the BRP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u86	I have two questions. I heard the Secretary of State say someone's always going to look at risk profiles. The question is on the basis of which the person determines that a risk profile is not weird or fair or legitimate. That's one. The other question concerns the return of the municipality. The municipality can say that she has done something with an address and that nothing was wrong, or that something has changed. But can the municipality also say: we don't have any staff, we haven't examined it again next month?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u87	Yeah, the city can do that. The municipality can always do that, even if, for example, they receive information from a pension fund that they get back letters from an address all the time. The municipality is autonomous in determining whether or not an investigation is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u88	And my first question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u89	The first question was how a person makes such a profile. You do that on the basis of information you have, for example, when you see that a certain type of address is not correct or that there are more people living there than should be allowed to live there. The research is done in collaboration with the municipality. What do you see? What do you see of situations that take place in your congregation, where you notice that there are other people than actually living there or that there are not people who do live there according to the BRP? Where do you see problems with, for example, non-passing removals? Then those profiles will be drawn up. But once again, this must be based on thorough research. Moreover, they must be translated in such a way that not only the Ministry, but also the Chamber can determine whether it is proportionate and sensible to examine that profile and not examine profiles, as mentioned in the contributions of Mr Van Baarle and Mr Ceder, on the basis, for example, of age and place of birth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u90	When the pension fund gets letters back every time, isn't that a signal that needs to be incorporated into a risk profile? Isn't that a signal that the pension fund is just going to call or perhaps inform the municipality if that address is still in order? Why would there have to be a whole system in between the LAA, which also makes profiles? First they have phenomena, then they make risk profiles, then they process data and then they share it. Because that's what it is. We are talking all the time about letters that don't arrive, but that doesn't have to be solved with such a nationwide approach Address quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u91	No, you won't. If letters are sent back, they are often sent directly to the municipality. You don't have to do that through this system. A pension fund, or any organization, can simply send a message to a municipality that they notice that letters are always coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u92	So that doesn't require this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u93	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u94	Fine. We were just talking about the ticks in the BRP. Suppose the address where Mrs Leijten lives is being investigated because mail is coming back or because I've just been separated from my husband and the IRS finds that a reason to investigate it because it was a research profile, and the municipality doesn't pick it up, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u95	No. The check mark is set by the municipality. If a municipality gets a signal from us, asking us to investigate this address, indicating why we think it's wise to investigate, then it's up to the municipality to decide whether to pick it up or not. Only when a municipality picks it up will there be a check mark: this address is under investigation. Before that, nothing happens and the address just remains as it is in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u96	So all those partners who might be sending a signal about Mrs. Leijten, never see that there's a tick if nothing happens at the municipality? But that's not how I read the bill. I don't even read the bill with that condition. Nor do I read what the Secretary of State says about the human test and the profiles that are being passed on. It's not in the law. I find that a little problematic at all. The Secretary of State says that's the way it works, so that's what happens. It's not in the law, but I'm trying to put that in. But why would it say in the BRP that an address is under investigation and for whom, if it is really only the municipality that records that a start, b and c also removes it? Then why should it be visible to third parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u97	Well, the reason that's visible to third parties is the fact that if an address is in research, that for other partners may be a reason to deviate from, for example, their own use of an address. They may use another address. They are then not entitled to actually use the address they use. The core is as follows. That's what I checked. How do parties deal with it when they see that there is such a tick or when they see that the address of municipalities is under investigation? That is also limited in time. As far as I'm concerned, that's not insignificant either. What does a partner do with it if that's seen? The parties with whom we have so far exchanged the information I would also like to have better regulated have indicated that they do not, in principle, have any consequences or make any other decisions until the investigation is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u98	To conclude on this point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u99	Well, I'm trying to understand the logic of this bill. I don't understand that one. Do you need to rig up such a system to improve the address data or to detect social abuses? I think there's another way. But the simple example when there will be a check mark, who can see that and why, I certainly do not understand. However, I do read that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is talking about "unbridled and unnecessary data processing and provision" and about "subjectivity in administrative bodies and third parties." That is all made possible, whether that is now possible in the National Approach Address quality. Is that desirable? I don't get that question answered, apart from the question I have to explain to someone who says: I have a check at the BRP. Yeah, for how long is that? I can't explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u100	I think it's important to keep two things apart. Number one. The comment of the AP is: if you do not change this and if you do not record this, there is a great risk that there is indeed no good, subjective way of working. The idea is that it's precisely that we're going to record and do that. That's what the letter says. That's point one. The second point is that this system of examining addresses is not consistent with this law. That system is already in the law that deals with the BRP. Municipalities can now also have addresses in research, based on signals other than those coming through the Ministry of the Interior. This can be because they themselves have doubts, do not understand something, or have gotten those voting cards back and feel that it is important to investigate them. So the ticking system is not something we regulate with this law. That system already exists, and we just connect to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u101	Actually, I already said "finalizing." You should leave it at that, but I will give you the floor very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u102	I'd love to. The concept is therefore not in line with the GDPR and therefore unlawful, says the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Then the Secretary of State says: yes, but we're going to settle that in that ministerial arrangement and with those AMvBs. Then this bill is currently in breach of the GDPR, because it is not yet settled? That's question one. If so, how can it be in the decision note of the Secretary of State, or the former Secretary of State, that the Home Office officials have written down that the Personal Data Authority has advised on this point? I really don't see that in the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u103	I'll just grab it. It literally states that the AP advises to bring the concept into line with the requirements of the minimum data processing as referred to in the GDPR, etc., etc. The essence is therefore that the AP says that it is important to record this precisely and to ensure that it is done properly. That's exactly what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u104	Continue your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u105	I turn to Mr Van Baarle's question on the way in which supervision of the designation of third parties is secured. Third parties may be designated to gain access to the system of this law, but this requires two steps. The first step is to designate the third parties in the AMvB. These can only be parties that carry out a weighty, social interest. Think of the UWV or a pension fund. For the AMvB, advice will always be sought from the Personal Data Authority and the Council of State, even when it amends. There is therefore always external review before anyone can actually be designated as a party that can use this system and send signals and then have us pick up. There are parties we're already working with. There is currently no intention to increase the number of parties. There was also a question from DENK about the algorithms, namely how we ensure that an algorithm in the LAA never becomes self-learning. That is exactly what we have indicated. We don't want to use self-learning algorithms. They're very simple systems. We are not going to do that, and we will continue to do so in the future. Then there was the question of the SP who all have access to the BRP. There is, of course, a basis for this in the law. There are many parties, government organisations in particular, that have access to the BRP. But I think it is right that I should just write that information in a letter so that it is clear which parties have access to the BRP. By the way, it is important to know that having access or access to the BRP does not mean that you have full right of access. The data that the party may access shall be recorded by lot. But I think it's a good thing that I just confirm that in a letter about what it's like and what parties it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u106	You'll get a letter. Mr Van Baarle for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u107	Let's get back to that third party point. I did ask a question about that. The Secretary of State states that there is currently no intention to cooperate with those third parties to obtain information about people. I have a lot of concerns about those third parties, because they are indeed parties such as pension funds and health insurance companies, which are not at all equipped to select and carry out this type of data. If there is no intention at the moment, why are we putting it in that law at all? Why then offer an opportunity at all to work together with parties that are not at all equipped to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u108	Well, we don't want to rule out that we're gonna do that in time. It may be important. We are talking about parties with a significant social interest, as it is called. So those are really parties whose quality of information can be relevant to us in achieving our goal, increasing the address quality. But again, we can only do business with such a party or ask such a party to participate when we specifically describe it in an AMvB. Once again, he will be given the test of the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Council of State. Furthermore, it is also coming to the front of this House to ensure that it does so. So we don't want to rule it out. We want to make it possible. And, of course, we are currently working with parties, unlike the Ministry, for example UWV, Tax Service and CJIB. At least we'd like to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u109	But of course there is a difference between parties like UWV and the Tax Administration and those third parties. As has just been said, these third parties are concerned with health insurers and pension funds. I only think that the expression of the Secretary of State "may have that organization information that is relevant to us" is too little to really demonstrate and argue that we should give the government the power to ask a health insurance company or a pension fund to go profiling and select people who pose a risk. It's a lot to ask that kind of organization to share that information with the government. We then give the Secretary of State that power and I therefore ask her to argue the necessity and importance of it better than with just: they may have information that is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u110	Let's get to the first point. Parties providing signals do not need to do so on the basis of risk profiles. That can also just be based on straightforward information they have, because they are worried if an address is correct or not. There's no need for profiles. I have also indicated that I am committed to working with such parties, whether governments or non-governments, when they are clear on the basis of which these signals are generated. So what's the nature of the signal we're getting from them? As far as I am concerned, this has to meet the highest quality standards, and that is what we are going to do in the AMvB. Next, the question is which parties we are actually going to work with. We must ensure that they meet certain requirements. But if those parties have information that we think can greatly help to improve that address quality, then it is of course important that we can do so. Of course, we'll always do that assessment first. That's what we do from the Ministry. Then let's make a proposal. This should be assessed by the Council of State and the AP in an AMvB, which should therefore also be able to assess its proportionality. Then the AMvB is hung here and can only enter into force afterwards. That will never happen lightly or on the basis of a decision that I or my successors can make. Then the question, also asked by DENK, about reasonable doubt. When is that supposed to happen? This is described in a circular, i.e. when the data deviates from the information provided by an implementing authority. This is possible because when applying for something, a citizen indicates a different address than in the BRP or when mail returns. Reasoned doubts can therefore arise when, for example, you apply for a benefit and specify a different address than the authority recognizes in the BRP. One of the questions, also from Mr. Van Baarle...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u111	Excuse me. Mr. Van Baarle still has a question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u112	My point was whether the concept of "reasoned doubt" for those other organisations....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is that clear enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u113	I don't think that's clear enough at the moment, but I want to make it very clear. I want to work with parties that provide data only when they are very clear on the basis of which they send signals. Otherwise, I don't think we can do that. And again, that comes in the AMvB that we'll be hanging out here first. Your question was also whether the LAA is not based on mistrust and whether discriminatory data is being processed. I think that the beginning of the LAA was certainly based on mistrust at the beginning of this debate, namely the idea that we wanted to work primarily to combat fraud. I have indicated that this is not the objective of this law. The project was set up as a result of that committee, but that is not what we want. We want to increase the quality of the address data and it is incredibly important that we record it properly. Not only on the basis of this debate, but also on how we proceed, how we will share data, with which parties we will do so and under what conditions. Are no discriminatory data processed? No, but that's what happened. That too is important. You mentioned earlier the point that there has been a profile of persons over 60 years of age and born abroad. So that must not be used anymore, and that must never be used again. We'll have to ban it. By the way, the law does specify the type of data that can be used. But again, the extra certainty that this is not going to happen again, as far as I am concerned, must be the fact that profiles are always presented here first, with a test, which must, of course, be positive, of the AP and of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u114	This leads to a follow-up question with Mr Van Baarle, on whom I appeal to moderate the number of interruptions. Yet, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mr President, I understand that. I've had a lot of time. I'll hold back. However, I would like to ask a question on this point, because I do not want us to ignore the point that older people born abroad alone have been selected. In other words, if you're an older man and you've had your cradle in Turkey or Morocco, you've been picked out by definition. That is indeed discrimination. You also call it discrimination. How did that happen and what consequences does the fact that it happened? You call it discrimination, which means that those responsible have done something about this which may go against the law. That would mean at least an investigation against those responsible. Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u116	I find it very difficult to find out exactly. We know this happened and that this profile has been deployed. It is therefore possible that this address study is about this; this is the result of the fact that the addresses of people who are older and are not born in the Netherlands have been examined more often. It's important to me that we never do that again. I think that's obvious. That should not have happened, and it should not have happened. It is for that reason that we have to plan the guarantee to do so. What consequences exactly have they had? Well, maybe extra tests. It's true that this profile............................................................................................................................................................... It was never introduced on a large scale. I think it is a good thing that I am trying to find out a little more for you and that I will return to that in writing: can we find out where that happened, where this pilot took place and what the consequences might be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u117	What the Secretary of State says here, I think it's too light. It sounds a bit like trivializing when the Secretary of State says "it's a pilot." There's been discrimination here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u118	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u119	That's the word the Secretary of State just said himself. So I'm really gonna ask the Secretary of State again. If there is discrimination, Article 1 of our Constitution, I expect the Secretary of State to say: I reject it and I am going to make sure, like a hare, like a hare, that I find out what has happened; if a hare I am going to make sure that, if necessary, it is reported and, as a hare, I am going to make sure that the responsible officials who have helped to set it in motion are turned off. Because discrimination is forbidden. We can't easily ignore this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u120	I can tell you two things. Number one: I disapprove of this. Exactly as you say; this should not happen. Number two: I'm gonna find out what happened here and what extent that happened. I think it is a good thing that I put that in writing and let you know what that is, so that we can draw a conclusion that we have to draw at that time. But I do think it is important that, before we talk about further steps, we first take a close look at what has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u121	Finalizing, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u122	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Discrimination is a criminal offence. This State Secretary would also have in the past been able to make a declaration in the case of the supplementing case, because there is a presumption of professional discrimination. There could be a report now. The government always talks about declaration readiness in the country. We're calling people to report it. But if there is a suspicion of discrimination and the Secretary of State does not now state that he is going to report it, what are we giving as an example of declaration readiness in the country? So I'm really asking her to mark this with more force, because it's about discrimination against people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u123	I said what I wanted to say about it. This isn't good. We can't have a profile like that. We shouldn't. I'm gonna find out what happened first. As you know, I've only been working for three weeks. I'm gonna go see what happened first, and I'd like to get back to you on that. I'll do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u124	We've received a description of the profiles. That is progress in itself, because in other cases we have had to wait a long time for information. This profile, number eighteen, comes from the Tax Administration and is called: no longer resident in the Netherlands. Then you think: okay, if you no longer live in the Netherlands and you are registered here, then that might be a reason to select. But then there's the explanation. "The profile concerned single persons over 60 years of age born abroad and registered at a residence address in the Netherlands with an ongoing benefit and possibly a supplement." That was the reason. So it wasn't a write-off, it wasn't a signal that someone might have left, it wasn't the post that didn't arrive. It was nothing like that. No, you were 60 years old, you were born somewhere else and you had a benefit. That's a pretty serious one. In the profiles we get, this is also called "no longer resident in the Netherlands." That wasn't the investigation at all. If the Secretary of State is going to put this on paper, I would like her to go through the other profiles on this kind of embezzlement or to go through it herself. I would also very much like her to answer Mr Van Baarle's justified question about discrimination. If these types of profiles can be created, tested by the Tax Administration, used for years, applied and there is no light on anywhere, then that says something about the organization called our government. Then we must also have a plan to prevent, tackle and ensure that it never happens again. That letter really needs to go into that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u125	I fully agree with that. I say that, too, because I think it is important that we also investigate what has happened in the past. I'm trying to figure out what that is and how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u126	Is there anything to say about a period when that could be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u127	I find that very difficult. If it really needs to be investigated, then I do need time. I would like to return to what is realistic in the second term. I'm gonna have to check with my team.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u128	I have a quick question. It's a good thing there's a letter coming. Could you explicitly include that in my question: how often has that been applied, in which municipalities and what consequences this has had for the people who have received an investigation or something like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u129	I will. Then I go on to the questions of D66 and GroenLinks. According to the GDPR, the question is: does the citizen have the right to information? How was this secured? How does it work in this system? Once the municipality has chosen to investigate an address, it will often do so by contacting the relevant citizen. You can do that in writing. That could be on the phone when a phone number is known. It can also be done through a house call, to investigate what's going on. The main purpose of such an investigation is therefore that there is real contact with the citizen, because otherwise you will not be able to draw the conclusions as to what exactly is going on or is not going on. So that will always be done. Of course it may not work, for example if someone no longer lives in the Netherlands, has left and has not checked out or whatever has happened. Only if careful investigations have not been carried out and it is not possible to contact the municipality can the municipality make a decision of its own motion. Because in all other cases, if someone is just living there, someone has gone to live somewhere and has forgotten to sign up.In the first instance, they will be asked: do you want to register? Then the municipality will not do so of its own accord, but the citizen will be asked to do so himself. Of course, it can always be that someone doesn't agree. The decision taken by the municipality is always a decision within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act. It can therefore also be appealed against and appealed against. Citizens also have the right to access the investigation file. These are also the safeguards that apply to them. For example, when someone is written out by the municipality, you can always appeal against it again. Once again, this can only be done after careful investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u130	I'll be brief. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. We mean the following with the right to information. Of course, you have the right to object and to inspect. But if you as a person do not know that you are subject to investigation, then of course you do not go to the municipality either. So our question was: will the person in question be informed afterwards that he or she was subject to investigation and what the results of the investigation were?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u131	I'd like to get back to that in a little more detail later. That can be complicated sometimes, when someone has left and can't be reached anymore. But I'd like to get back to that in a moment. Then on the subject of human intervention. We've talked about that before. It concerns the importance that without human intervention a decision is never made and never changes the data contained in the BRP about you. As far as I am concerned, that is also very important. In this case, this is about thinking about how we receive good risk signals and how we select them well, which is about the profiles, but that is certainly about the research that is ultimately done by the municipality, where a meaningful human treatment must always take place before there is a change. That is, of course, also stated in the legislation. This question was also asked by GroenLinks, but I think I have already said something about it. So you can only modify something based on the fact that there has been contact, so a human decision, never a system decision. Moreover, the fact that registration can only be adapted after many steps is not something we are regulating in this law. That is already on the agenda. So even if a municipality at the moment says that it has doubts about an address, that research is being done and that it wants to change something, it can only do so after there has actually been human contact. And that must also, as it is called, be meaningful. Then Mr Ceder asked: if every report leads to a house visit, isn't there some sort of automatism? That would be the case if that were the case, but it is not. Not every report is actually picked up by the municipality or is picked up in the form of a house visit. The aim is therefore to get in touch with the citizen, but there are also other methods and possibilities to ask what is going on and to do research. However, the municipality can also conclude earlier that it does not consider it necessary to carry out such an investigation, for example because there is more information in the municipality about an address. Then on the subject of proportionality. We've talked about that before. I think it is important that we record that again, also as a fact to be used in the implementation test and the evaluation. Does this way of working actually provide a higher quality of the addresses in the BRP? I think it is incredibly important, because we have made that weighting in advance and in the project that has been carried out and have seen that it actually has effects. But I think it is particularly important to make a very clear statement with the guarantees we have agreed, and everything we have exchanged on this subject, that we will actually look at the effects of this and whether it will produce any results. I also think - and I will come back to the questions raised earlier - that we can then ask together with the municipalities whether it has produced something for them, for example a view of certain social problems. I would like to identify and examine these questions in the evaluation together with the municipalities. Then I'll go to the questions about the purpose of the law. I think I've said something about that before. I will go to Mrs Leijten's question. Are you prepared to postpone the law for two years because it is not proportionate? I think I've indicated that I see that proportionality. I also see that there are many questions and that there really is a need for careful work. I therefore attach great importance to a really good evaluation which looks very closely at what this way of working actually brings about, how it works and what it delivers. This makes it possible to determine whether it is necessary to continue the law and continue to carry out the work in this way. Then there was Mrs Leijten's question about a new opinion from the Personal Data Authority. The bill has been submitted. The AP has recommended that data from administrative bodies be further restricted. That is what we are going to do by including it in the AMvB and in the regulation underneath. It will actually be submitted to the AP again. So I don't think it has any added value to have the AP look at the law again, but certainly to have it look at the AMvB and the ministerial arrangements that are the result of this law, so that we can see that what they attach in the opinion has actually been implemented, namely to ensure that there are no wrong things happening to the data of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mrs. Leijten for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u133	The Personal Data Authority has assessed the draft legislative proposal as unlawful. The bill is to include in the law a pilot that comes from a Ministerial Commission Approach Fraud, from which we have seen the supplement scandal arising. We've seen Syri come out. We have all kinds of start notes that speak of linking and sharing data, of creating profiles. All these notes, made at the time for the ministerial council, never ask the question: can it really do what we do and is it proportional in the sense that we don't shoot a mosquito with a cannon? Now the authority has said that the concept needs to be changed on those points in order not to be unlawful. My question to the Secretary of State is: has the concept been adapted on those points, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u134	I will look back at the letter from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. It says: I recommend that the concept at this point should be taken into account in the provision of data by others to bring it into line with the requirements of the minimum data processing referred to in the GDPR. It says "advises." It doesn't say it's illegal, but it's important to do it. I agree with that, too. It concerns the supply of other data by third parties. Then it is important that we organise and record this very well in the AMvB and in the ministerial arrangements. Precisely the exhaustive list of the data is thus recorded in the AMvB and the underlying schemes. It's not gonna be in the law. This is included in the supplementary schemes, or rather in the underlying scheme, the AMvB and the ministerial scheme. They're being tested by the AP again, as I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u135	I ask whether the concept has been adapted to this and the Secretary of State says: no, we will do so in the future. The Secretary of State says it doesn't say it's illegal. That's in the paragraph above. I can understand why the Secretary of State is taking part of the advice. The advice is being properly built up. There's what happens when there's reasonable doubt. Mr Van Baarle already commented on that. Then it is about the other data that can be subjective and can be shared unbridled. Then it says in the second paragraph: the concept is not in line with the GDPR. So that's illegal. If it's not in conformity, it's illegal. That's why it needs to be adjusted on that point. And that didn't happen. So that still has to be done. If we change the law like this, we're gonna see it. But in the law now before the Chamber unchanged, the Chamber does not even see it. Then it's a ministerial arrangement and an AMvB without fronts and afterhang, and the MPs will know you won't see it. The concept has not been adapted and therefore the concept is unlawful. I really think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u136	I'd be happy to answer that. That is not the actual situation. The law states that this should be laid down in lower regulation. The law has been amended on the basis of that opinion. When it comes to what it actually is, that exchange of information should be recorded in that AMvB and in that ministerial arrangement. This is precisely because of what the AP has requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u137	Finally, Mrs Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u138	Once again, there is a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior on the national pilot on the quality of the address and the sharing of data. We're going to make that legal. This was submitted to the Personal Data Authority and was assessed as unlawful in June 2020, not in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. "Not consistent" means it's stranded in court. That's what it says. Then I ask what it has been adapted to. That's still being done, that's the answer. Then it's not modified, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u139	I'm sorry, I need to be more specific to keep us from saying wrong things here. The law has been amended. The AP has indicated that much information can be provided by other parties. And if it doesn't materialize, it says, the possibility of subjectivity arises and so on and so forth. In this respect, we have subsequently amended the law by saying that the data we accept from others must be recorded in AMvBs and in ministerial regulations. It's in the law. It is, I think, a good thing that we have the exact wording of it, I do not now take it up by hand in the second term and that I give exactly the place in the law where this point of the AP has actually been adjusted. Because otherwise, we won't be talking on the right base. I suggest that in second term I show you exactly where that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u140	Can the Secretary of State then ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority if the way it has adapted this is in line with the GDPR and whether the unlawfulness is removed by this technical adjustment? I would very much like to know, preferably for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u141	The latter seems very complicated to me, but we followed exactly that advice from the AP. Again, I'd like to get back to you in second term. Then we can show how it stands and what its purpose is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u142	Glad the Secretary of State says that the general measure of governance and the ministerial arrangement are submitted to the Personal Data Authority. Very good. Our question is whether this review will take place before the entry into force of the law or after.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u143	An AMvB has been given in consultation. It hasn't been filed by me yet. If you vote on the law next week, that AMvB has not yet been established.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u144	So not even the AP review yet? Because that doesn't mean we have an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u145	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u146	I have an order proposal. This seems to me to be a natural moment to talk about this. It is very important that we conduct this debate well and carefully, but there is also another debate on Ukraine. We're running a little out of time. My proposal is that we complete the first term and let the second period start at another time. This may also give the room to provide additional information between the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u147	Let me take a look at the Members in the Chamber. As an independent President, I am, of course, in your hands as a wash, but it seems to me to be a sensible proposal because substantial commitments have already been made on important points and because, as Mrs Rajkowski says, there is indeed a great debate ahead, which is already running out. That is Mrs Rajkowski's proposal. Mrs. Leijten wants to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u148	I support that request. We are also working on amendments, as are several parties. Then we can finish that properly. I would then, if we have that time, nevertheless like to ask the State Secretary to try to ask the Personal Data Authority for that second term whether they consider that their objections are not in line with the GDPR's proposal and whether that has been resolved with the technical supplement that will be settled per AMvB and ministerial arrangement in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u149	A supplementary proposal from Mrs Leijten. We are taking a round to respond to Mrs Rajkowski's order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u150	We can live with it to postpone the second term. I do, however, have a request to the Secretary of State regarding the possible occupational discrimination which has been applied for many years by selecting those profiles in the country of birth. The Secretary of State would come back to that in the second term. I would ask her to share this information with us before the resumption of this debate, so that we know what the steps of the Secretary of State will be to bring this about and to ensure that a possible criminal offence is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u151	We support the VVD's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u152	Support. Mr Van Baarle just reported it. My request is quite different, namely that the promised letter for the further progress of the debate should be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u153	I also see support from the other spokesmen. Then that's how we're gonna do it. We'll finish the first-term response. The commitments made shall be returned in writing. The Secretary of State has heard very well what has been asked for in addition. A number of cases can then be written. The Secretary of State wants to respond to this and Mrs Leijten also has an interruption afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u154	I'd like to respond to that. The first point is that Mrs Leijten asks me to try to check it with the AP. I'm sure I'd like to try. The second is that the commitment I made to Mr Van Baarle was different from what he just indicated in the debate. I said I'm gonna investigate what happened here. I didn't say I could do that for the second term. I'll take care of it. I said earlier that I wanted to indicate in the second term how much time I need to do so. I am going to do that research, I am going to tell you how much time I need to do it, but I cannot do so for the second term. At least, I'm assuming that that can't just be done for the second term. This research is about which profiles have been used and whether there are other profiles, where there may have been discrimination. I would like to come back to one point, because I said something which I do not think is entirely correct or at least not clear. That is in response to Mrs Dekker's question. This law does not enter into force, regardless of the treatment here, until the AMvB has been tested by the AP. That is an important addition to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u155	There is a majority saying that we will continue with the second term at a later date. We will give the Secretary of State the opportunity to complete the reply. I would suggest that she respond in writing to the amendments which are still being worked on and which have not all been tabled, as written information will still be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u156	Yes, then it is of course important to me that they are all submitted. If all the motions and amendments can be tabled, I can do so as far as that is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u157	Many amendments have already been tabled. Some are still being amended and a number of amendments are still being tabled. I see spokesmen nodding. They will do so as soon as possible, so that everything can be answered at once. Motions come only in the second term, of course. That's not gonna happen today. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u158	About the commitment of the investigation. Could I ask the Secretary of State if, before the resumption of the debate, she could inform the House in writing how she sees that investigation, what questions she is going to ask in it and what period of time it sees? That is a very important point for me. Then I can respond to that in my second term and perhaps give some direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u159	Yeah, I can do that. Then I will try to answer the questions that have been asked as quickly as possible. It has been asked, among other things by DENK, why there is a sub-delegation in this law. Why do we not only work with a law, but also with an AMvB and a ministerial arrangement? The reason for this is that an instrument has been chosen that is flexible and adaptable. For example, we are able to adapt the profiles and the parties to be recorded in AMvBs and the ministerial arrangement. We do this not only in order to add things, but also in order to be able to extract things that we feel have no added value anymore. So we are trying to be flexible, but we are also trying to bring back the guarantees. We ensure that we are able to determine with each other the way in which we work and to be very transparent about it, when it comes to checking the quality of the address. Then there are the questions about preventing abuses. I think I've already answered some of those. Mrs Rajkowski asked if there were any blacklists. I've said something about that before. If an investigation is carried out by a municipality, a file must be kept. Data must be recorded, but are not shared with third parties, except of course with the person about whom it is, if requested by that person. I think this is important, because we want to prevent the recording, recording or sharing of information that is not necessary for the work to be done. That can be from the GDPR perspective and to minimize data capture and sharing, but certainly also because we want to prevent people who do not know for what purpose something is recorded from doing things with that information. That is the core of what we have seen, for example, with the surcharges, but also with FSV. Then the question of GroenLinks whether it is intended to be about fraud detection as a purpose. We have previously indicated that this is certainly not the purpose, but that we can come to the conclusion that someone is registered at an address where he does not live. If we correct that, it could have effects on this person. The question was above all: if we see that, how do we deal with it? I think that this is a very important issue, because it really does matter whether someone has forgotten to write in or out or whether there is actual intent. That consideration must be made right in the municipality. Municipalities have the possibility of giving people who are not registered at the right address an administrative fine, but practice shows that they are very reluctant to deal with it. Above all, we do not want to encourage this, because our aim is to ensure a good quality of the addresses and not to impose fines. Then there is a question from Mrs Dekker. She asks whether an address is not put into research until an address examination is actually carried out. That's right. Only when the municipality goes to work will a check mark be placed in the BRP. Until then, that won't happen. It also disappears after the investigation is completed. Any new information will then be forwarded, but without any qualification; only the change in the data of that address. Mr Ceder asked how the State Secretary kept track of the obligation to register on his own initiative at a letter address, which existed since 1 January 2022. That legal provision has therefore just entered into force. It gives the municipality the obligation to register in the BRP people who are legally resident in the municipality but do not have a residence address. Moreover, I have seen how important this is, for example, in the problems arising from Supplements. I admit that I am sending a letter about how that is going at the moment and how the talks with the municipality are going. I like that municipalities give effect to this law, because of the importance of having an address, because otherwise you can't do a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u160	I'm so happy about that. I have had the discussion with your predecessor about two municipalities that both say that a person is not staying there. A homeless person does not have the luxury to choose which municipality he is staying in, but depends on where a bank is available. That is often the case, and that is precisely the case with the vulnerable. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to include in the letter those cases and to indicate the knot that will be cut if two municipalities say that a person cannot get a letter address there. It happens. I think the direction of the Empire is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u161	I can try to bring this up in discussions with municipalities, because these are indeed situations that we must avoid. I would like to see if I can get more information on this. Then there is Mrs van Dijk's question about the workload for the municipalities, the costs involved and the coverage of these costs. Structural resources have now been made available to do this work, that address research, by municipalities. Therefore, the amount available to the municipalities during the project remains available. Of course, we also look closely at the workload that it entails for the municipalities. I will also talk to the VNG to see if the municipalities have sufficient resources to actually carry out this work. Once again, we are doing so in the interests of improving the quality of the address. Mr Ceder asked whether the municipalities would receive extra money to solve the social problem. That is, of course, something that is not necessarily related to this issue. However, we have asked the VNG to carry out an impact analysis based on these addresses. Together with the VNG, we look at the impact that the municipalities see and the costs that might result from it, and then look at how we can deal with it together with the municipalities. I'm through answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u162	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. A lot of commitments have been made. We have decided that the second term will not start until the promised written information is in. This brings the first deadline to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-11.u163	Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State. I thank you all for your interest.
