ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the Amendment of the Act on the Promotion of Integrity Assessments by Public Administration in relation to information sharing between administrative bodies and legal entities with a public function and some other changes. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the spokesmen and the people who are following the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Michon-Derkzen of the VVD for her contribution if she is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Suppose you have a store, you get up early every day and you work six days a week. It's hard work and it's not fat. And then, as a hard-working entrepreneur, you look at a store where no one's ever inside. Or you could see the same kind of store on your street. Criminals like to have a place. They'd like to have a place on a shopping street. Criminals like to buy real estate, because criminals like to have a normal place in our society. They need ways to launder money. We see it, we look at it, and we have to do something about it, by this law, for example. Because with the use of this Law Bibob, a municipality can refuse or withdraw a permit, which simply prevents a company associated with criminal activities, or which is set up with criminal money, from exist. But the criminal isn't crazy. He goes from congregation A, where a permit has been refused, to municipality B. Municipality A knows it and sees it, but is not allowed to do anything to this day. Fortunately, this bill resolves this problem: municipality A may warn municipality B. In the bill, we call it "tips." And that is right, because the privacy of a criminal entrepreneur is subordinate to the duty of care of a government not to facilitate malicious activity. Mr. Chairman. This law Bibob is there for the government to ensure that the government acts with integrity and has no ties with criminals. For convenience, I call the city every night, but by that I mean all the government. It is often the congregations that are the gatekeeper between the underworld and the upperworld. It's the municipalities that keep the criminal money out. I therefore find it strange that the wishes of a number of mayors of the G4 and B5 municipalities have been dismissed quite easily. In particular, I would ask the Minister to reflect on the desire for police authority. The police now only have a tip-off through the D.A.'s office. The police can also provide information once a municipality has started a Bibob investigation. Why does the Minister not make the powers of the police more explicit by including them in the Bibob Act? The documents do not support the rejection of this request very much. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment. That amendment is also supported by such a request from the mayors. The municipality may impose a chain clause on the property when selling real estate. In fact, this is an authorisation requirement in the case of resale and you do so in the case of fragile or crucial real estate. The party that buys the property from the municipality can get a Bibob test already and that is quite logical too, but the party to whom this buyer resells. The chain clause requires municipalities to authorise this resale. But what does the municipality base that permission on? My amendment provides that the decision to approve the municipality may also be based on a Bibob test. I'd like the Minister's response to that. Then I have a single loose question. A question is about international cooperation. Many criminal activities, of course, do not comply with national borders. What is the role of EURIEC? We read in the pieces set up in 2019, also to share information, with a pilot for two years. What's the status of that? Mr. Chairman. This is an important law to ensure that the government keeps away from criminal activities and criminal money. I think everyone's gonna be behind that. At the same time, the application of the law is to the municipalities themselves. I started my speech about that entrepreneur who runs a store and looks at a store where nothing really happens, but never really does. That's inconvenient for trusting the government. The municipality can determine which branches are subject to authorisation and therefore are subject to this law. But there are municipalities that don't look, and so they don't see. Does the Minister have any idea in which municipalities the Bibob is simply not applied? And does she have any more information on why the Bibob Act is not being applied? Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u5	That was a clear statement from the VVD. Somewhere at the beginning it was about criminal entrepreneurs, criminals who want to do business. I think we'll soon agree on that. However, I would like Mrs Michon-Derkzen to give an opinion on the wording that it is also about 'involved persons who are related to offences for which administrative penalties can be imposed or suspected of being committed'. I think that is quite far from the notion of "a criminal who wants to commit."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u6	I think Mr Sneller is referring to two elements. The question is: how big is the circle of people you test, who can take a Bibob test? Those are not directly involved, but that can also be the circle of those involved. The criminal entrepreneur, like I said, is not crazy. He often pushes someone with a clean blazon forward. The second point you are referring to is: what information is the basis for it? What makes you start a Bibob key on someone, or on a transaction? So these are not only criminal offences, but they are also administrative fines. I think you're referring to the tip function. You tip, you warn, because you have a serious suspicion that the explanation also says that someone might have committed a criminal offence or might have been fined administratively. That's not going through red light, I'm just saying here. Those are serious administrative penalties. So this isn't a tracking device either. And you're not saying, "I want proof of that because I'm gonna track you down, prosecute you and measure a sentence." No, this is a preventive measure, so the question is on what grounds you have a suspicion that this medicine justifies you starting the Bibob test. That can indeed very well be an administrative fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u7	But that administrative fine doesn't even have to be imposed. It does not even need to be imposed in the future. It should be possible to impose it because an offence will be committed, which should reasonably be suspected. My question to Mrs Michon-Derkzen is as follows. That's what the Dutch Data Protection Authority says. I'm struggling with that myself. Isn't this just too broad a definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u8	It starts with the question: when do you start a Bibob key? If you don't pass a Bibob test well, that decision is based on a heavy justification. Mr Sneller refers to the question of when to start a Bibob test at all. I think that's what you're referring to. If you have a suspicion of a criminal offence... Of course, you don't know that, because whoever suspects that is a community itself. That's not always the state's attorney's office or anyone in that chain. If you have a hunch, you start a Bibob test. So it has not been said that you can have a negative Bibob decision by suspecting an administrative fine. That is what Mr Sneller is suggesting, and that is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u9	I didn't mean to suggest that. It is about the right of tip, as the first answer has already shown. Then the municipality that gives that tip doesn't even have to come to the conclusion that a negative Bibob is being made. All the investigation has to be started, and then there has to be this suspicion. But I understand Michon-Derkzen so that she doesn't actually find it a problem because it's a relatively light authority that follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u10	I think it's okay to say a little more about that tip. A tip-off is a warning. We are formalizing this now, but I will tell Mr Sneller that it may be happening now, with a phone call here or there. But we formalize that by law, and I think that's very good. By this we say in a formal note, from municipality A to municipality B: I warn you about this person or about this business relationship of the person concerned. Then Municipality B starts the whole Bibob procedure and that is a fairly comprehensive and careful procedure. That procedure leads to a decision, on which the person concerned will also enjoy normal legal protection. So it's no more than that. It is a warning and I think that is a very good initiative, because the municipalities see it. They see that person in another municipality carrying out the same activities and I therefore think it is very good that they now have the opportunity to formally warn a colleague with this authority in their hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mrs Michon-Derkzen. I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than I could have done, the previous speaker has already indicated why it is important that we combat the mixture between the underworld and the upper world. That is certainly a major problem with the current drug policy, I say. But it will continue to be, even if we had arranged otherwise. As far as I am concerned, it is important that we take steps in this direction, but at the same time I have some concerns about safeguards and legal protection in this legislative proposal. For, as far as I am concerned, the more serious we are, the greater the scope, the greater the demands we must make for these safeguards and that legal protection. Mr. Chairman. I've been asking about the tip-off. I quote the explanatory statement: "A tip usually consists of a short letter or e-mail to the competent institution. Tips do not need to be justified in substance." In other words, the suggestion is that it's nice and easy to reach. I still do not understand what the criterion is for a municipality or another administrative body to give these tips. In the answer we come across a number of times: if municipality A sees that an activity is being carried out in municipality B. But you can also imagine that a municipality thinks: I'm going to warn as many municipalities as possible about this person, because this person can then apply for a permit or a grant or buy real estate in any municipality. What is the limitation of the scope of who can be given tips? As was said in the interruption, it is not limited to the applicant, but also to the third in the business environment. I am also asking this in the context of research that came out last May and for which the Minister for the Interior was called to Question Time. This study showed that municipalities were quite often out of line when monitoring their own inhabitants. For example, when it turned out that the use of these powers involved monitoring online, on social media and entering into secret or private groups. In a third of the municipalities there was no involvement of the data protection officer, although this is a legal obligation. The researcher, Mr Bantema, also said: within municipalities hardly seems to be talking about what may or may not be. For me, that is the background to my questions about the safeguards that have been put in place to use this tip power carefully and the information that fits in with it. For what demands are being made, for example, for officials who are allowed to deal with this information? Are there certain additional qualifications or additional secrecy for that or is that no more than the official oath? I asked Mrs. Michon-Derkzen, too, but what does the Minister think? Can she explain once again clearly when this is allowed? If it can reasonably be assumed, on the basis of facts or circumstances, that infringements on which administrative fines may be imposed will be committed, and then in the Netherlands or abroad, it seems to me to be a rather difficult assessment to make. As the VVD rightly said, it is municipal officials who have to make that assessment. Because this is subjective or sometimes speculative, I would like to hear more about it. Finally, that question about the Personal Data Authority, before that question is asked. Because I do not think that the rebuttal of that opinion in the explanatory memorandum to limit it to criminal offences is convincing. I would like to hear a further explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u13	I must say that it is a recognizable speech by Mr Sneller, but I do not agree with his speech. It is precisely up to the municipality to receive a tip or a warning to start an investigation. That's a discretionary power of that municipality. Suppose a municipality A tips every municipality across the Netherlands about a person because that suggests you, with a small suspicion, all very thin. This one says to anyone who wants to hear it that they can be a danger. Still, it is up to the warned municipality of B to start a Bibob and then to ensure that that Bibob decision stands. That tip-off doesn't add anything to that. They then just start at zero and then have to take that Bibob decision carefully and motivated. Does Mr Sneller agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u14	Not quite, because part of the bill makes sure they don't start at zero. But you also do not want to be determined on the basis of randomness who is or is not subjected to a Bibob. Then you want that trigger to be a little more concrete. Then there is also the question of what is ultimately the basis, when you do such a Bibob and when you can respond positively to the question of whether those administrative fines and that reasonable presumption are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u15	But that is precisely up to the municipality! That is so essential to the legislative proposal, and I myself am so committed to it: that is up to the municipality. If it were a permit in a vulnerable street, which the municipality already has its hands full, then you are inclined to ask yourself if that is a reason to do that Bibob test. If you don't, you don't. So that's very situational, and fortunately, because it's up to the municipality. I also think it is right that we should confirm together that this warning is one thing, but the follow-up to it and the adoption of a good Bibob decision is up to the municipality, and it will take many factors into account. Does Mr Sneller agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mrs Michon-Derkzen is absolutely right, but I think the conclusion is as follows. If this power of tip is extended, so that risk conclusions can also be shared more widely, then there will also be more private investigations by municipalities. That seems reasonable to me to suspect, even in smaller municipalities, where experience shows that there is less capacity and expertise to conduct these kinds of investigations. The question to the Minister is: what is the consequence of wider sharing, based on research that is less qualitative than the average today? Then there's the question of who's guarding the guard. What monitoring possibilities are there? There is a National Bureau Bibob, then there is a Quality Committee Bibob, which presents a nice annual report and also examines some of those Bibob tests. But it is not foreseen to extend that quality test. My question to the Minister is: doesn't she see room for that? For example, the NVvR also asks: shouldn't you have a review tool to ensure that the information collected from the National Bureau of Bibob is of a certain quality? Or could you build in a role for the Regional Information and Expertise Centres to make them do something about a test? This is to prevent it from contaminating, I'll say. Then there can be a lot on the basis of this law that is not being used. The coalition agreement has agreed that we will ensure sufficient capacity and expertise to better perform the tasks that exist. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do that research and to see whether there is sufficient expertise and capacity in the municipalities, but also at the Bibob National Bureau and at the RIECs, to make full use of the possibilities available within the current instruments. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two more questions. The first one is about the FIU, the Financial Intelligence Unit. Thanks to the efforts made over the past few years, they have received much more data from the banks, but they can actually do very little with that. They can now give it to the police, but has the Minister considered including in this law a TIB jurisdiction, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office, for the FIU? Is that something she's open to? Finally, I noticed that there is no evaluation clause, while a number of assumptions or predictions are made. Administrative burdens will be reduced for bona fide citizens. In more cases, a decision can be taken independently. The number of Bibob investigations by administrative bodies will increase slightly. There are also a number of assumptions about costs. I have a question, on top of the concerns I have expressed but which are sometimes not shared. I think we all want to see which way it has gone in a few years' time. What does the Minister intend to do to evaluate this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, the happy fact is that I can also make my contribution on behalf of the CDA Group. That happens on a beautiful night in spring! Mr. Chairman. Then to the bill on the extension of the Bibob. Undermining is a multi-headed monster, which appears again and again in a new form. It calls for adaptability to combat this undermining effectively. It is logical that there has been a review of how the Bibob Act can be improved. I would like to stress, however, that the Christian Union Group always has to consider whether the use of administrative law is appropriate, especially if it tends towards criminal and punitive consequences. Of course, we talked a lot about this in the Bibob Act when the law came into being. Mr. Chairman. Then why is this Wet Bibob so important? Because the government must always be integrity and therefore not want to contribute unintentionally to or facilitate criminal activities. Unfortunately, we see too often that criminals are still trying to get a foothold through tenders, shops, sex institutions or real estate. In order to keep our society resilient, we need to build those barriers in the front. I saw this myself in Utrecht, where the Bibob procedure was applied for investors in prostitution on the Nieuwe Zandpad. Too often vulnerable women had been exploited there, even though it was an authorised sector. The municipality didn't want to see anything like this again. Over and over again, operators failed to pass the Bibob test, for example because an investor collaborated with someone who was repeatedly convicted of serious and long-term violence against women. But then it is also important that such operators do not work elsewhere and are still licensed there, which continues the abuses. That is one of the reasons why I find the present legislative amendment of added value. I do have a number of questions about the scope and, in particular, implementation. I am also inspired by the Bosman Committee's report and the debate that took place this afternoon in this Chamber. We sometimes talk too little about implementation. Bibob research is mainly used by municipalities in the fight against undermining. In many cases, the law creates the possibility of investigation and not the obligation. That is beautiful in itself, because then the municipality can deliver customization. We see that for many municipalities it is a valuable tool in the fight against undermining. This is very clear from the input of the G4 and also the Brabant municipalities. But the concern of the Christian Union Group is broader. If we look at the map of the Netherlands I have it from the reporting of the National Bureau of Bibob we see that it is hardly used in the North of the Netherlands. 221 applications have been made in Noord-Holland, Zuid-Holland, Noord-Brabant and Utrecht, but in Zeeland, Flevoland, Groningen and Drenthe together there are 22 applications. There is just a great concern for my group. The Bibob Act is applied in varying ways. Of course, it makes sense in terms of population density to apply it more in some places, but criminals know very well where to organise their activities in order to get through the loopholes of the law. So we see the danger of a waterbed effect. Frankly, that became even more painfully visible in the Groningen practice report, about undermining in the municipality of Groningen. This is certainly not a small municipality, but it is a municipality where 1 fte is available for Bibob policy. Mr. Chairman. That report highlights another concern, namely the circumvention of the Bibob test by real estate entrepreneurs. They do this, for example, by giving up an amount below the Bibob limit in the case of renovation, whereas in fact this is much higher, or by giving up investment for room rental as investment in apartments, in order to avoid risk categories. That is why I have the question: how can we help municipalities to cope more broadly with this? Think of things that can yield a quick profit, assist with good official support and cooperation with the RIECs.In fact, this is also in line with what Mr Sneller said. Can we also speed up the scheme to make Bibob forms easier to handle for municipalities? I saw what you have to fill in; that is a very sturdy package. Would it be possible, at least before the summer, to find out more about this? Can we also help the municipalities to extend the use of officials for Bibob investigations, so that not only the one civil servant in the public policy and security department, but also, for example, the department can be involved in the further establishment? For example, there will be more opportunities for setting up the municipalities that are currently using the Bibob instrument little. There is still a vulnerability in the implementation, namely with the Tax Administration. This is also evident from the execution test. With more than 550 applications, it's gonna get tight. That's what the Minister says. Then we need to talk and see how we can fix it. Does the Minister have any indication of the number of expected applications? At what point does she report to the Chamber? Is that what she's doing when we're at 550 and it's complicated to adjust or at an earlier point, when the traffic light goes orange? Of course, I hope so; you will notice that. I would like to hear more from the Minister. Then the branch ring. Applying the Bibob Act is not a sinecure. For example, we saw this in Tilburg; that is not a small municipality either. There they had twice as much car rental as in all other cities of the Netherlands. That did give us suspicions about the question: is our car rental okay? But making car rental subject to license and thus making it possible to apply the Bibob test, has not been found by the Council of State to be in order. When I read the case, I understand that too, but it also shows that it is not easy for municipalities to properly justify which branches are risky for them, whether they are telephone shops, nail studios, massage parlors or the car rental industry. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how they can be better supported, including from the Bibob National Bureau and the RIEC's municipalities. Mr. Chairman. The extension of the scope for administrative bodies in this legislative proposal has our support. My group also welcomes the implementation of the Van der Graaf motion. This motion calls on the government to also bring the amendment of the environmental plan under the Bibob Act. I do have a question about scope. Does this include the construction permit? Undermining has many faces and can occur when building houses or offices, but also when building land and building roads or soundwalls. There are examples of this. We see that the latter category is not yet within the reach of the Bibob, but my guess is that it will happen when the Environmental Act is in place. I ask the Minister exactly what that is about, even in the meantime. This is important for dealing with environmental crime. Let me give you an example of this, because I had to think for myself about exactly what a construction permit means. An example is the soundwall in Spijk. You may have stopped by. That is where the construction went badly wrong, because contaminated raw materials were used in that noise barrier. This has had an impact on groundwater. People just knew that. They are polluting steel slags, I learned; that was new for this lawyer. I would very much like an answer from the Minister to the question: is it now regulated by law or is it not settled until the Environment Act is in force? Just now that the implementation of the Environment Act has been delayed, I have concerns about what this means for the fight against environmental crime. A second enlargement concerns procurement. In fact, it is an omission that my group would like to see restored. In the previous tranche, it was intended to be able to bring all tenders under the functioning of the Bibob Act, as well as explicitly those of the healthcare sector. But not all tenders are now covered by the legal definition chosen in the Bibob Act as it stands today. That is why, together with Mrs Palland, I have tabled an amendment which states that we can also deal with the health cowboys. I am sad to see that criminal entrepreneurs are also active in the healthcare sector. We'd really like to see that different. But it's only then that it should be possible to use that Law Bibob? Even if, for example, a municipality with an open-house construction in the social domain actually wants to make a request for good care in the municipality, and one has the impression that it is not perfect, it should be possible to use that Law Bibob? In such an open-house construction, we do not therefore carry out the typical tender as we know it from the Procurement Act. I have always understood that this was also the intention of the first tranche. So I would like to hear a response from the Minister to our amendment. I believe that this is a sensible extension, in order to prevent criminals from trying to take over good public money. But more importantly, we must prevent them from trying to take care of vulnerable people. We definitely don't want to see that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. It has already been said by many speakers: the Bibob Act contributes to the protection and security of our society against criminals who have evil plans to infiltrate our society. Administrative bodies are enabled to protect their integrity by preventing the government from unwittingly facilitating crime. For example, the government can do this by banning wrong individuals from certain branches, or by exposing criminal constructions that would otherwise remain hidden. The SP thus sees the added value of the Bibob. And there is certainly something to be said for some of the enlargements that are regulated by this amendment to the law. The SP understands very well the desire to share more information between the administrative bodies, because information sharing has proved to be a stumbling block when it comes to tackling crime for years. My concern with this law is the extension of tip jurisdiction. We still have questions about that. The government wants to extend the power of tip. Not only can it be tipped off in cases where there are suspicions of involvement in criminal offences, but it can also be tipped off when the tipster has information indicating that a data subject is related to offences for which administrative penalties may be imposed. Mr Sneller also made that point very clear. Now the Personal Data Authority is indeed saying very clearly: "Don't do this, because the size of the data and the number of data subjects that could then be tipped on will be expanded in such a way that there is a disproportionate breach of privacy." Why is it necessary, I ask the Minister, that, for the sake of shortness, the administrative fines can be tipped off? Can the Minister demonstrate this with practical examples? What kind of situations are we supposed to think about? And why is this really crucial and we can't do without this part? The government says: "Yes, there is a breach of privacy, but it is limited, because a tip is indeed at most a signal that it may be reasonable to start a Bibob investigation." Mrs Michon also said that. The government says: "It is enough to identify the party involved in the legal act concerned." I understand that it is the intention to reassure us, but it is actually said here that tips do not need to be motivated at all. And then the question arises for me: how will it be for those who are being investigated on the basis of that tip, clearly why he or she is being investigated? In addition, the government indicates that tips may also be based on the fact that a person or other relevant third party from the business environment of that person committed an offence, i.e. did not per se commit a criminal offence, but was fined administratively. So not the person himself committed the offense, but someone he or she knows. I can understand that if you want to expose stromand constructions, you don't want to limit yourself to investigating only the person who makes the application. I understand. But isn't the circle of people who can be investigated too large with the now chosen wording? For example, are these really going to expose stromand constructions? You may be subject to an investigation later because you happen to know someone who once had an administrative fine. Am I getting this right? And can the Minister give us any further explanation as to why this is precisely proportional? Then I have a number of questions about how the monitoring of the information used will be regulated. Do we understand that the supervision of the correct information used is to the administrative bodies themselves? Is that right? For example, the data protection officer of a municipality checks on a sample whether any errors are made in the provision of information if it is correct, because what Mr Sneller said about this, I also underline "Just like the Personal Data Authority generally monitors the processing of data." But I do not think there is anyone who actually monitors the accuracy of the information that is being shared, except for the administrative body itself. Who's gonna watch that? How is it monitored whether administrative bodies process the correct information? Just for the sake of completeness: verification of the accuracy of the information and the legality of the collection of the data will only take place if someone appeals against a negative decision for him or her. Isn't that kind of late? What does this say about the position and legal protection of a data subject? Should a data subject not at all times have an insight into the information that an administrative body has about him and processes specifically for making a decision on an application? Quite specifically: when exactly do you get access to your file as a data subject? And what does such a file look like if the tip only means that a name is shared with, for example, another municipality? Does that happen entirely at the end of the journey, when the decision has already been made, or does it happen before? And do you really get insight into all the data? Because if you don't know what a decision is based on, then you can't defend yourself against it either. Does the Minister see this problem, or at least this critical question, in the context of legal protection? And how does the Minister intend to deal with this? I would also like to draw your attention to the proposal made by the Dutch Association for Judicial Justice: now provide for a review instrument in the law, in which the National Bureau of Bibob is given a major role. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mr Sneller. Is the Minister prepared to take a closer look at the NVvR's proposal and therefore ensure that the LBB intervenes in the investigation phase? As the SP sees it, it would be possible to prevent the wrong sharing of data and then verify the origin of the information and whether its acquisition is lawful. I would also like to talk about the implementation capacity, both of the administrative bodies and, for example, of the Tax Administration. The Christian Union and D66 also explicitly asked for this. The Minister notes that, in the light of proportionality, the receiving administrative body could never refuse authorisation solely on the basis of the information received. It will therefore always have to carry out an investigation itself, in which the information received can be helpful. Well, that's what we've been asking questions about. The Minister states that the administrative board itself must carry out an investigation. Of course, it costs capacity. The Minister's answer was: it is up to the administrative bodies themselves to make more money available for further investigations. So municipalities are given more powers to protect integrity, but they are expected to find extra money for that themselves. Can the Minister explain to us what kind of business she thinks should be cut if they have to get that money out of their own budget? Is the Minister prepared to meet municipalities financially? And if not, why not? The same story actually applies to the Tax Administration. The tax authorities say they can handle about 550 applications a year. This new legislation is expected to allow for much more applications from administrative bodies. The government then says: if there are signs that there are actually more than 550 applications coming, then we will talk to the Tax Office. But why can't the Minister already say that if it is necessary to do so, if it is going to be more than 550? That's a form of good governance, I'd say. You create a new law that may increase the workload, but you don't say: we're gonna take care of that. I think we agreed we wouldn't do that this way anymore. I don't think it's really possible. I really want the Minister's promise that the government will come to terms with it financially if it proves necessary. A number of municipalities say that it is not clear to them whether the tax authorities can tip municipalities if they have relevant information about criminal parties. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: what exactly is the tax authority allowed to do and not to do? I will say quite frankly that I am a little hesitant for an overly proactive Tax Service, but I would like to hear a response from the Minister. There are municipalities that think that this bill does not go far enough, and say that this bill is actually not going to make much sense in the fight against criminals. Well, at least I agree that the Bibob is, of course, never enough and that much and much more needs to be done, but these are also other discussions that we are having. But this indeed strengthens me in the sense that this law is not in itself blissful, and that there is also the risk that in their search for how to fight criminals, municipalities might look for the limits of what exactly is allowed, while genuine supervision of the actions of the municipalities is lacking. How does the Minister see this? And does the Minister also recognise that this bill is going to change little or nothing to the fact that in some cities there are streets full of bell houses, barbers, sandwiches and so on, which everyone knows can't be crochet because there's never really a customer in there, or no one gets cut by the hairdresser in question while there's a big turnover fake? To date, this has not been effectively addressed. I believe Mrs Michon asked the same question. Does the Minister recognise this signal, and what are we going to do about it? It's a little out of the reach of this bill, but I'm going to allow myself to ask that question. And then I will end with the following comment. I also think that the Bibob should be watched for a further division. Why do I say that? I recently saw a policy rule of a municipality in which the municipality has clarified the requirements to be met by an operator or an intended administrator. New then is that the municipality can judge on bad life behavior. Well, okay... But what does it turn out to be if you continue reading? "Bad Life Behavior" is among other things a prior conviction for violence, morals, drugs, possession of weapons and some of those things. That is all very well, but in white-collar crime we saw only money laundering. So no falsehood in writing; that is not tested. Not a scam. And when it comes to fraud, it was called benefit fraud, but not tax fraud, for example. Then I think, "Hey, we're gonna have to keep an eye on this." Does the Minister also see this danger of wanting to focus on the criminal acts of, for example, the working class, and not the criminal acts of the white collars? Can the Minister look at this? Can the Minister, if necessary, restore that balance sheet, or at least point out to local authorities that this is not the intention in this way? I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. The Minister has indicated that she needs about 25 minutes to prepare herself. I'm suspending the meeting until about 8:38.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u22	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the amendment of the Act on the Promotion of Integrity Assessments by Public Administration in connection with information sharing between administrative bodies and legal entities with a public function and some other changes. I give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Suppose someone wants to open a café in a municipality and apply for a permit, but the municipality finds out by applying the Law Bibob that there is a serious risk that this person will probably use the café to launder money. So someone wants to pretend he's an honest entrepreneur while he's in the middle of criminal business. That's why the municipality refuses the permit. So much for what's possible now. The municipality then finds out that the same person wants to open a café in a community. The mayor can't be here right now or warn her colleague about this. We'll change that with this bill. The bill thus allows governments to tip each other off, to point out risks. It also provides for a legislative proposal to be submitted to the Bibob National Bureau to examine whether there has been a previous occurrence of a hazard in relation to persons involved in the authorisation. This can be done if they have previously been examined by other municipalities or by the National Bureau of Bibob. Finally, the legislative proposal allows public authorities to share information from Bibob research. This will allow public authorities to better assess risks. This will reduce the chances of public services being abused by criminals. The bill is a follow-up to the legislative amendment of the Bibob Act (first instalment), which your Chamber accepted in March 2020. Municipalities and provinces had already called for information sharing between governments under the Bibob Act in the consultation of that bill. With the bill we are discussing, we meet that need of municipalities and provinces, and the motion of the member Kuiken adopted by your Chamber. The aim is that the legislative proposal can enter into force on 1 October if the legislative proposal is passed by the Parliament. Mr. Chairman. I have some folders. It may not be the most logical order of folders. I've done my best, but I've had a little doubt about it by now. But the order of the folders is in any case: quality, municipality/capacity, tip power, other. I suggest we just go and see how far I can get with that. Mr. Chairman. For starters, the quality. Among other things, Mr Sneller had a question about this. He said: more tips, more hazard conclusions shared and more Bibob studies, but what is the result for quality? Ensuring a sufficient level of knowledge is very important. I also see this as an ongoing process. The National Bureau of Bibob has the statutory task of informing and advising administrative bodies on the application of the law. In this context, the bureau provides courses, presentations and webinars. It also serves as a helpdesk. In addition, municipalities and provinces are members of the RIECs, which support the implementation of the Bibob Act. The wider sharing of information does not mean that administrative bodies receive different categories of information than they already receive. They do not therefore need to interpret new categories of information. In this sense, there is therefore no need for new expertise. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question: how is the objective and individual assessment guaranteed, and how is it prevented from being handled too lightly? I think that was one of Mr Sneller's questions. An administrative body is also legally obliged to investigate the facts and circumstances before taking a decision. The administrative body must check whether the information is still up-to-date and whether the facts and circumstances are comparable. This follows from the principle of care from the General Administrative Law Act. The administrative body may use the information received as a starting point for its own investigation, but may not rely solely on it. That is an important element. The administrative body is also obliged to examine whether the facts have been correctly established and whether the proposed decision may be based on those facts. This follows from the obligation to state reasons from the Awb. The justification must be tailored to the individual case. An administrative body which would therefore rely solely on the previous file and ignores changed or different circumstances risks that the court will destroy the decision. The administrative body itself is responsible for the assessment of the criteria of the Bibob Law, case law and the decisions resulting therefrom. Mr. Chairman. There was a question about the space to extend the quality test. In order to promote the transparency and quality of Bibob opinions, an independent quality committee has been set up to assess the quality of the opinions of the Bibob National Bureau and the care with which the opinions are made on a sample basis. The quality committee looks at the structure of the opinion, the way in which the information has been selected and reflected and the question whether the analysis of the information used can support the conclusion of the opinion. The quality committee shall report to the Minister for Justice and Security and shall report annually. It is really too much to entrust a body other than the current quality committee with quality testing. But I did want to mention how things are now. The next question is from Mr Van Nispen. I dropped it under the block of quality. In fact, he asked: is this bill actually going to make a fool of itself? What's it worth? That's my free translation. I am sure this bill will make a real difference. Supervision of the activities of municipalities is provided. I think the guarantees are very well arranged. This is really the extra step we need with each other right now. Mr Van Nispen also asked: is the Minister prepared to look at the proposal of the Dutch Association for Justice and to have the national office watched? At the stage where an administrative body requests underlying information from an administrative body that has already conducted a Bibob investigation into the same person, there is no need for a central point. There is no need for the National Bureau to act as an intermediary in the transmission of data between two administrative bodies. An administrative body must verify whether the facts have been established correctly. The Data Protection Officer and the Personal Data Authority shall monitor the lawful processing of personal data. The transmission of data between the parties does not have to be carried out via an intermediary. If mutual benefits were to be provided via an intermediary, this would mean a wider circle of recipients and a doubling of the number of benefits in kind provided by the underlying information. This does not relate well to the GDPR's obligation not to process more personal data than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u24	This is the argument of data minimizement, so you do not have to share data with more persons or parties than is necessary. I'm in favour of that. I think that's a good argument. I'll use that myself. However, in this case, it may well be that, if the national office checks the legality of the provision, it will consider whether there is a good reason to share data from one municipality with another and how it stands with regard to its quality, it may also assume a kind of effect that municipalities do not share this data with all kinds of other parties, for example if there is no good basis for that. So you can also explain data minimizement the other way. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u25	I believe that the right balance has been struck here between "as minimum as possible" and "checking." There will still be a tight review. I indicated to Mr Sneller how it was built up with the quality committee and what the internal demands are towards an administrative body. There is also a real need to check whether the facts have been established correctly. Under the General Data Protection Regulation, each public body must have a data protection officer. That is someone who is monitoring compliance with the GDPR within the organisation and has to ring the bell if something is not right, if things don't go well. I believe that we have built in safeguards at all levels and that even with the enlargement we are discussing tonight, it is still delineated and concretely who can share what information with whom. I do not think that adding any additional elements will contribute to the objective which Mr Van Nispen is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u26	No, we're looking for the same target. That's right, but I'm still looking. The data protection officer knows a lot about the GDPR even more, there the person is for... but perhaps less of................................................................................................................................................................................................. You can say that we should also teach or train that official, but the Bibob National Bureau might be able to monitor very closely the legality and reliability of data that one municipality believes is necessary to share with the other municipality. It could gain in care to do it that way. The Dutch Association for Justice has argued for this for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u27	In my view, the independent quality committee also works in this area, which has a very important role to play. It shall assess, on a sample basis, the quality of the opinions, including those of the national bureau, and the diligence with which those opinions are made. Of course, this includes how these opinions have been asked, by whom and why. I therefore believe that these are still very valid questions and that they are elements that we need to stay focused on, but that, with all these different elements in particular, they have really been carefully looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u28	The Minister answered my question about the quality of the Bibob opinions of municipalities. Unless I have misunderstood, the Bibob quality committee is only looking at the opinions of the Bibob National Bureau. But not for all the Bibob opinions given by municipalities or for all the tests that are taken, so to speak, additional research is requested from the National Bureau of Bibob. So who monitors the quality of the Bibob test done by municipalities if no advice is requested from the LBB?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u29	Let's see if we're talking about the same thing. In the end, an administrative body itself must check whether the facts have been correctly established; the data protection officer also assesses that side. But it is up to the administrative board itself, so in this case the municipality, to check that. Again, it is not that everything is done with that. If you didn't do it right, you're gonna end up risking the judge blowing your whistle back. So this is not an isolated thing that is never controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u30	No, I get that the judge can still look at it, but the municipality that decides whether it has done well is of course not an extra pair of eyes; that's just the butcher who approves his own meat. That is fine in itself, but that is of course not an extra check, while the legislator has set it up for the Bibob National Bureau in such a way that there is also a quality committee. It seems that we do not rely on the expertise that exists there, because we have a quality committee, which is quite heavily rigged up, which also makes it a nice annual report. I didn't ask the Minister to put anything next to that quality committee. I asked: is it perhaps also possible for this quality committee to have the opinions of municipalities assessed, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u31	Maybe we'll talk past each other; then it might be good to think about that in the second term. In my opinion, however, I would like to mention all these elements: the quality committee and the structure of the opinion. So it is not just about what the Bureau is doing, it is also about what has been asked, how the opinion has been built up and how it goes back. The administrative body itself has a responsibility. The administrative organ shall have the data protection officer, who shall be independent. Besides, of course, you have AP. So I think I'm really still looking at how to organise that further. Perhaps I can get that tightening up again and then come back to it more specifically in the second term. I'm really trying to figure out where best to find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u32	Municipalities do a lot of Bibob tests. Only part of it is considered so heavy that an additional investigation is requested from the National Bureau of Bibob. So you only have a subset of the number of Bibob tests in the Netherlands that the quality committee looks at. My point is that with the tip power, the sharing of data in a moment, the expansion of the circle of involved and some of the measures in this law, more Bibob tests will take place by municipalities. So there will be more of them who do not end up with the LBB. I think a number of spokesmen are concerned about the supervision of what municipalities are doing on Bibob tests. Especially if they then share that between themselves and give it to the LBB, which only keeps it and doesn't do a test on it before the next municipality comes up with the question of whether something has ever happened to a particular person, and just gets that data again, without having an extra check on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u33	I suggest I come back to it in the second term. I feel like we might just disagree. I'd like to check that out anyway. With a profit warning, I'm gonna give it a try later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u34	Fine. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions were also rightly asked about municipalities and capacity. Mrs Michon, Mrs Bikker and I believe other Members also asked about the application of the law in municipalities themselves. How does that work? Which municipalities apply and do not apply and to which branches? I have written down all these questions here, so once in a while I repeat something. But those are specific questions that actually all come back in a similar answer. At least I can say that 97% of the municipalities apply the law in the policy. That policy indicates when they are doing Bibob research. There are industries that are vulnerable to criminal activity. Local authorities can make a local assessment of which sectors are vulnerable. I come later to Mrs Bikker's specific question, which showed me a card and asked: how is that divided? Mr Sneller says that there can already be a lot that is not being used; are we prepared to do research, in municipalities, in the National Bureau, in the RIECs, where there is sufficient capacity? Then where is it that not everything is used? The 2013 WODC review of the Bibob Act showed that capacity is the most commonly mentioned bottleneck in the implementation of the Bibob Act. The application of the Bibob Act is a discretionary power of the governments. Within the scope of the Bibob Law, it is up to them to determine when they will use the Bibob Law. It is, of course, also up to the authorities to decide what capacity they make available. The bill offers the possibility to use the Bibob instrument more risk-oriented. That's a really important step. Governments can use their capacity more effectively. That's also the conversation we're having with them and they've been asking for for a long time. I believe that Mr Sneller asked: are you prepared to look further at that? I think it would be a good idea to do that research and keep an eye on it. Even if we are going to extend something as far as I am concerned, we still want to know whether these powers are being properly used and whether they are being sufficiently taken up. Mrs Bikker says you have a lot of differences. She showed us the card. You saw a lot of difference between the two provinces that Mrs Bikker pointed out, I think Zeeland and in the North Netherlands, and the G4, the big cities. That is where the difference lies in particular. In Zuid-Holland you have both Rotterdam and The Hague. They have a lot of requests for advice from the National Bureau. As I said, 97% of the municipalities have really incorporated it into their policies. We do not have the impression that there are deficits there, that these differences are so great because they are not used, whereas the option could be used. It has something to do with Mrs Bikker's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u36	I understand very well that there are more Bibob applications in municipalities such as Amsterdam, The Hague or Rotterdam, with the port. But I also read the report on Groningen practices. Honestly, that was an understatement for me. It will look very well in the policy and a Bibob employee will do his best. I'd like to believe that. But in the surroundings of Groningen it is already quite complicated. I have also spoken to a mayor from the municipalities around Rotterdam, who states: it costs me a lot of administrative capacity to get this done, but I also know that if Aboutaleb pushes hard, criminals move towards my municipality. This really requires some of the municipalities that are perhaps less quick to ring the bell, which do not like the five Brabant municipalities I understand very well, given the undermining of drugs. My concern is that criminals benefit from it. I am not reassured if it says that 97% of the municipalities know that the Bibob exists and perhaps will do something with it. I am reassured if these municipalities have been asked: can we use this instrument and how can we promote that you can use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u37	We constantly have all kinds of conversations, very focused on the Bibob Act, but also conversations from my predecessor and I on how to deal with organized crime and undermining, for example. The kind of adjustments we are talking about tonight is going to make a big difference. I really believe in that. The adjustments to this proposal will be able to counter the waterbed effect by means of the tip function, the sharing of information on risk conclusions and the exchange of information on substance. This ensures that municipalities which may not have the capacity of other municipalities to that extent, because they have a large concentration of this type of activity, can act much more effectively. They can get a tip from the mayor of Rotterdam, which is not yet possible. There is now that power to a targeted tip, which allows you to get to work in a very targeted way. This is gonna make a difference. I really believe in that. But, of course, we'll have to see that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u38	I have also indicated to the Minister that, as well as to you, President, in a contribution to both of you, that I certainly see the added value of this bill. But I see the problem that we already see in municipalities, quite frankly, is not being solved sufficiently. A tip is nice, but that's always in case a criminal first tries a church that is very sharp on it and has everything in order. I can give all kinds of examples whether it is about undermining farmers in the rural area, about the surroundings of Rotterdam where everything happens or about the Frisian countryside. In all these places it is important that it is difficult for a municipality to free up capacity for this. We can see now that it's barely being used. Frankly, the Minister's answer does not reassure me that we are indeed going to see this change. Because the law does not provide any additional implementing power on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u39	This law is not, but what the coalition agreement is doing and what we have done over the past year is making extra money available to deal with undermining. Part of it was done to the RIECs. The RIECs, the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, support the municipality precisely at this point. I really think that, by adding these powers, municipalities can give very targeted information but can also receive it. Received is perhaps the important part for the municipalities that Mrs Bikker is talking about. Next, the RIECs, who are now getting extra money to tackle their role in this context, are the supporting factor. So it's not like we're just doing one thing. I think that we can use both elements to establish these kind of municipalities to take action when they see that this is necessary. It is important that almost all municipalities in the Netherlands have Bibob in their policies, so that they know what it is, what it consists of and how they can act. There's a lot going on about it, too. Additional support is also provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u41	I think it is very good what the Minister is doing in the sense of the legislative amendment. Nor will you be surprised that I also like it very much in the sense of the coalition agreement. That we are going to tackle this undermining: beautiful! Nevertheless, I still see that we are from here thinking about how it's all going to happen. That's what we thought about the Bibob Act in the first tranche. When it was about real estate and when it was about environmental law, we also thought that the municipalities could work with it. But we still see the difference. I would like to think along for a moment, because we can continue to differ in opinion and that is interesting, but nobody is getting better. Could the Minister at least consider picking up the network from the municipalities after six months? Do they really want to ask the municipalities, which we see through the LBB, the National Bureau of Bibob, that they are less active,: do they succeed, do you indeed have control over what is needed in terms of Wet Bibob and do you have a view on the threats? Can the Minister and the local authorities so that within six months or one year we do not have a view of whether it is actually being used? Otherwise, we will have a reinforcement of the power needed at the G4 and the Brabant 5, while we also want to see criminals not fleeing to rural areas and then undermining the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u42	We share that goal. I think it's very good to test gradually if it works the way we hope it works. We didn't come up with it on our own. This is exactly what we've been hearing from local authorities for quite a long time: help me with this, I want to be able to call my colleague to warn about a criminal, but I can't do that now. That is why I have so much confidence in these additional steps, precisely because it comes to us at local level. I just want to think for a minute about how best to get the information. I don't know what's most efficient. I know the Bibob National Bureau has a help desk. He also has ways to approach the municipalities. At the same time, Mr Sneller said that he did not see an evaluation clause in the proposal and that it seems to him that it would be good to evaluate in five years' time, as we are used to doing under many laws. Mrs Bikker is also asking for an interim evaluation. I don't know if I should do that from The Hague, or if we should have another construction, but I want to think of a way to always pick up where it works and where we can strengthen each other even more. I may return to it in the second term. Perhaps in one of the debates we have left on undermining. There are many, and rightly so, because it is a very important subject. I'll take these with me, but I'm looking for a way to live up to what Mrs Bikker is asking for in terms of content. She doesn't ask me for checklists that I called all the municipalities once, but she wants to know if it really works. That's why I need to go home and see how we can get that even sharper on the table. Although it is already being evaluated, I would also like to evaluate this law in five years' time. I think she's asking for something more concrete than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u43	The Minister said quite clearly: these adjustments are really going to make a difference. If you go along with that vision, it's only when municipalities can actually use it. I think that Mrs Bikker's concerns are justified. More spokesmen have pointed it out. I said, of course, quite clearly, that we have too little capacity and asked what they would have to cut back on. I am curious to hear the answer to that question. Actually, Mrs Bikker isn't even asking for extra money and extra capacity, which I do. All she's asking is: please talk to municipalities in the meantime to see if they can do something with it. I'm curious, too. Soon municipalities will receive tips from other municipalities. What if they can't do anything with it because they don't have the capacity to do it? What's that? Actually, we're just asking you to make sure of that. The Minister can think about how that works best. But the Minister can say that she also wants to know within a year whether municipalities can deal with these tips and whether there are any capacity problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u44	That's about what I said literally. That is the second time today that Mr van Nispen has done this to me. I said, I think it's a fair question. I also think it is very good to look at it, but then I also want to be able to make something happen. Whether this can be achieved after six months or after a year and whether it should be a question from us, or that we can organise it better in the country, I want to look at that. That is why I said that, as far as I am concerned, we are going to evaluate the law in five years' time, but that this seems to be something different from what Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Bikker are asking. I'll share that. Just because I think it is so important in terms of content, I thought I'd fill it in a little more intelligently by saying: let me find out what is the most efficient way. That's not because I disagree with the content. Mr Van Nispen looks disappointed because we do not disagree on the substance, but we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u45	I think it's a pretty neutral look, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u46	Oh, this is the neutral look! We are going to see, because I come now to a few questions from Mr Van Nispen. I'm gonna pay attention, because his look could just change. But I hope not. He said to me: recognizes the Minister that the bill will change little to nothing in, for example, the streets full of hairdressers, call shops and so on. What are we gonna do about it? The whole point of everything we do in this context is that local authorities themselves know best what is happening locally, so that they can use very targeted instruments. So also, for example, in certain streets I know in the city where I live. Everyone recognizes this. It's frustrating that it can exist that way. Municipalities are best placed to consider locally which sectors are vulnerable. It may well be that in a municipality it is said: call shops in this way, for that we will also use the Law Bibob; we will also use other elements, but we will do so. I also know examples of municipalities where this happens. But we also get signals from mayors and other administrative bodies that are working so hard on this, saying: I see it happening, but I cannot intervene. These are steps that can help. So I do not recognise that the bill will change little or nothing, but I hope that it will change a lot. I am particularly concerned about the fact that we are listening to local government in particular. Mrs Bikker asks when I expect to have adapted the Bibob form scheme. In the note following the report, my predecessor indicated that he would endeavour to establish the arrangement after the summer of 2021. In the meantime, it has become clear that alignment with municipalities, provinces and RIECs has taken more time than had initially been thought. That was quite rightly noted by Mrs Bikker. It is necessary to carry out the motion carefully. The route is currently in the final phase. Thereafter, the concept should be reviewed by the Personal Data Authority. The Dutch Data Protection Authority always checks afterwards and never reads directly. That is why we have to wait for that now. That's just the order we agreed on. I am therefore dependent on when the Dutch Data Protection Authority can look at this. Mrs Bikker has also spoken about this. We have already thought a little bit about the expertise and support of the municipalities. She also had examples. She asked: how can municipalities be better supported? I think we have already shared this with each other, but perhaps it is good to emphasise specifically in response to this question that the Bibob National Bureau offers courses and webinars and has a helpdesk. In addition, the RIECs provide support and the RIECs are also strengthened for this purpose. So I hope that way extra expertise can come where it is needed. Then there were a few questions about the IRS. The question was asked: in the case of more than 550 applications, isn't it very vulnerable? I understand. I am also constantly in consultation and in conversation with the Tax Administration about the numbers. So it's not like we suddenly get a signal that we're here, and then it just stops. We're talking all the time. If necessary, if it is going so fast, we must also see what we are going to do. Then I'm sure I'll come back to you. I would particularly like to point out that we are watching it closely with the Tax Administration. There were a lot of questions about the tip authority. I understand that, too. Mr Sneller had a number of questions about the conditions that apply. The tip function refers only to pointing out that application of the Bibob Act may be reason enough, indicating a party directly involved and the decision at issue. No information is given about the offences during the tip phase. A public authority may give a tip to another public authority in the event of a strong suspicion that criminals are involved in an undertaking which has or has applied to that other administrative body for authorisation or other legal act covered by the Bibob Act. For example, this information can be seen from the own Bibob investigation carried out by the leading public authority. It's possible because of other things. The proposed Article 26 requires data to indicate that the data subject is related to offences that have already been committed or which can reasonably be suspected of being committed. This is an important definition. That has just emerged in the mutual debate, but I think it is good to emphasise that both the tipper and the recipient of a tip should have the power to apply the Bibob Act. Under the applicable Law Bibob, administratively punishable offences are treated as criminal offences. As a result, administratively punishable offences can be considered as much as criminal offences in the assessment of danger. Both are relevant to the tip jurisdiction. Administrative fines can also be really heavy and they can be imposed for breaches of laws and regulations, such as environmental legislation or the Alcohol Act. In addition, Mr Van Nispen had another question in the same direction: what is the scope? Is this really necessary? Perhaps it is good to emphasise that even when it comes to administrative fines, because that is where I think Mr Van Nispen's question was also about the fact that someone committed such an offence, the integrity of that person can be significant in terms of compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. Contrary to criminal law, there is no specific register of administrative fines in relation to administrative fines. That is a legal and technical answer, but I think that everyone here who has been dealing with organised crime for a long time has spoken to several mayors who say: had I but the authority to call my colleague. As Mrs Michon just said, I also have the feeling that it happens occasionally. I also understand that mayors say, "I couldn't stand to see this and I can't stand to see a criminal start working in your congregation right now, knowing what's come out of my investigations." I think this tip-off power is crucial. I believe that the guarantees, in particular that the tip should only be given to an institution with the power to apply the Bibob Act, are a very concrete definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u47	So that's all the municipalities and waterboards among themselves. The minister says mayor's calling mayor. But these are all municipal officials versus all municipal officials, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u48	Yeah, it's based on the administrative board that's competent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u49	But every municipal official may act on his behalf. That was my question in the first term: are there any guarantees that it is a certain category of civil servants? Are there certain extra requirements, so it can't be everyone and it's going to be easy to roam around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u50	For the officials who are allowed to deal with the Bibob investigations, there are the same safeguards as for those who say: we are now going to tip. Of course, this is done in consultation. That still happens with the guarantees there are. I know that Mr Sneller knows that, because that is what he was talking about in his speech, but one more time: the tip function is really only to point out that a Bibob investigation can be reason enough. That's it. So it is one who points it out and says: "Beware of it." I have heard many times myself from local authorities and, above all, from mayors: I wish I had that authority. And: now I make use of it occasionally. Then I call and I say, "I'm not supposed to call you, I'm supposed to call you. Of course, this is something criminals know. They know, exactly as in the examples given by Mrs Bikker, that one municipality is on top of it and that they can go a few doors down. That's what we're trying to prevent. So it's really a signal: maybe you should do a Bibob investigation. Ready. So it is not the case that all the data is just lying on the street and any civil servant can do whatever he wants with it. That is a matter of concern to me, but that is the essence of the question, which is a very fair question, so I shall do it in this way. Then I'll be at the folder "other."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u51	There is another afterburner by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u52	I thought now the answer would come to the question as to which municipality the tip goes to. In the explanatory statement it is a bit of: if you know that these people are going to do activities in another municipality. That's what they're getting from public sources now. But of course you don't know where this crook, suspect or anyone you can reasonably suspect is going to do that. How do you delineate that? What behaviour does the minister expect of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u53	That's a very good one. That's still pretty tricky. If any mayor or competent body could warn anyone else, where a criminal is working, that would be ideal. I'd love to, but that's not how it works. That must indeed be based on information you see, for example, in media reports, or information from your own Bibob research, which you think: hey, wait a minute, it may be logical that he goes there. So these are things that you should reasonably find out for yourself. If you don't know that, then you can't. You can't randomly call 30 municipalities, just in case. I don't think a mayor's gonna do that. As I said, following media reports or the Bibob investigation, you can give a signal: pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u54	At this point I have an informative question. Is it desirable for it to work like this or is it expected to work like this? Or is it also legally defined that not all municipalities may be informed? Suppose someone in the city of Tilburg is refused because of the Bibob test. Can that mayor, or the Bibob official, tip Breda and Eindhoven? Or, just to be safe, can it tip off all the mayors in Brabant, or perhaps throughout the Netherlands, as Mrs Michon said in an interruption to Mr Sneller? Could that be theoretically according to this law, or are there safeguards in it? I don't have that sharp right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u55	I get that. I think I'll get back to that in second term. The guarantees are, at least, as I just said. The moment you give a tip, the authority to which you give the tip must also be competent to start a Bibob investigation. These are guarantees we have, for example. A guarantee is that you only tip and that you don't say: here you also have the whole file, to read in. At least these are guarantees. I'll look into this question. Mr Van Nispen started his question with: is this how we hope it will work or will it work in practice? The reason why we have now recorded it is that it is very often very specific from the point of view of practice that a mayor really wanted to call a colleague, but that was not allowed. But I understand Mr Van Nispen's question. I always mention mayors as an example, but we have heard this most often from them. At least that goes for me personally. So it's not like mayors say, "I wish I could share this in a group app." That's what I'm saying. It's a little more delineated than that. But I will come back to this later, to answer the question exactly. It does listen closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u56	That's nice. That's what I'm curious about. The reason I am asking is a little different from what Mrs Michon suggested in the direction of Mr Sneller. That was: yes, it doesn't matter, even if you would share that tip with the whole of the Netherlands, because it's just a tip and that has to be followed up by your own research. I don't mean to sound too suspicious, but it's not just a tip. It's a tip from someone who says, "Maybe there's something going on here with a certain person." You don't want that to end up on a list with too many policy departments and too many municipal officials, so to speak. That can always turn up in one way or another in I know a lot of what kind of research. It is therefore relevant that this is not spread too widely: we do it just to be safe, because then we only have it and who knows what you can ever do with it. I realize I'm charging a little bit now. But that is why I am asking this and why I would like to know this more precisely in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u57	Yes, I understand. Maybe it's good to say that it's still just a tip. That is what Mr Van Nispen said in his speech. In the end, it will have to be dealt with. Studies need to be started. At least we have to look at what it was worth in that context. So it's important. It is also important to answer this question properly. But it's not much more than that either. The definition that Mr Van Nispen is looking for is still clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u58	I have more to say than a question, because I have not provided any input in the first period. My group is in favour of this bill. I think it's a bit out of control now, because now it's almost the suggestion that every municipal official can tip. Look, garbage collectors are also municipal officials, but they're really not gonna tip a town council over another garbage pickup. These are really licence applications that could facilitate criminal activity. And if you have serious, strong suspicions at municipality A when applying for a permit, it is very logical to say at municipality B, if there is a similar permit application: pay attention. I assume that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u59	A very strict definition of Mrs Helder, and I can only agree with that. If I later in the second term the scope of... I don't mean the scope of that power, but what do you expect in practice? Is that one-on-one? What Mrs. Helder sketches is exactly how I see it and what I expect. From the practical point of view it is also stated: yes, we miss that so much. But I will ask whether, for example, there is a limit to this. So I understand why Mr Van Nispen is looking for that demarcation and the practice will be exactly how Mrs Helder says it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you. And you'll return to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u61	Yes. I now have a number of questions under others. They're getting a little messed up, and I'll start with Mrs. Michon. She says: what is the status of EURIEC? Over the past two years, the focus has been on bottlenecks in the international exchange of information. Based on the findings, the pilot has been extended for two years. That is the current state of affairs. I have already said to Mr Sneller in an earlier interruption debate with Mrs Bikker that I am prepared to review the law five years after it enters into force. I think we're used to that, because we do that more often by law. Mrs Bikker asked whether the construction permit was also subject to enlargement. The bill provides that the construction permit will indeed be covered by the Bibob Act. This is only the case after the Environment Act enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u62	I'm glad to hear this is gonna fall underneath. As far as the legal history is concerned, I would also like to stress that this permits the construction of buildings. I have in another life as a senator who is allowed to deal with environmental law. I understand why the introduction of this is being postponed every time, because there must be a lot of water flowing through the Rhine before we get there. Then the Minister will understand what concerns I have, because this will only apply once the Environment Act has been implemented. How does she assess the risk in the meantime? Suppose it's going to take a little longer, does she have an emergency solution in mind? Or should we actually live with the fact that it's not covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u63	I get that. I think Mrs. Bikker... I'm sure she knows a lot more about the Environment Act! At least it's complicated enough to answer that here. I have just promised Mrs Bikker that I will see how we can look at the extension of the law in some kind of mid-term review next year. We can then at least see how it is with the municipalities. Perhaps we can take this question into account, because then we are a little further and we know what the Environment Act stands for at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you for that commitment. I could imagine that it would go through a technical change if the delay would last longer. Normally we write in anticipation of the possibility that another bill might come into force in a bill that we will merge it together. But now we have the opposite reality: if the bill is still a pope, it should be fixed in today's Wabo. I have considered tabling an amendment on this point. To be honest, I'm still doubting that a little bit now that I'm hearing this. But can the Minister think about it or she can promise that at least it will be different on a... This can also be done in the second term, because we can always table an amendment later. Suppose this fall we know there's gonna be another extension before that Environment Act is introduced, will we fix this hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u65	Yeah, let's get back to that. At least I hope I can get back to you in a moment. But at least I'm gonna try. Great! Then I have the question of Mr Van Nispen: what is the tax authority allowed to do or not to do? I think Mr Van Nispen also mentioned the lessons we have learned over the last two years. It is therefore right that he should ask to take a critical look at it. The Tax Administration can already provide tax information for the own Bibob investigation of an administrative body. The legislative proposal clarifies and clarifies the existing basis of the ministerial regime. So the tax data provision is limited to relatively hard information. This refers only to tax offences fines under the General Law on State Taxes. So there's a tight cut-off. Tax fines relate to offences involving intent or gross negligence. This is in itself significant about the integrity of the person concerned when it comes to compliance with tax regulations. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal clearly states that the provision of tax information may also cover certain third parties in the business environment of the data subject, such as the financier. This is necessary for an adequate risk assessment. Following the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, it has been clarified that only substantive information will be provided if the fine is irrevocably established and I see that as an important guarantee in the direction in which Mr Van Nispen was sought, or at least confirmed by the court. That's the delineation. Mr Van Nispen also asked about transparency in data processing. Data subjects will be informed of a Bibob procedure by default. A Bibob investigation starts with a communication from the administrative body on this matter to the person concerned or the issuing of a Bibob questionnaire. Data subjects may then exercise their right of access under Article 15 of the GDPR. The person concerned shall be entitled to a copy of the opinion of the Bibob National Office. The same applies to the underlying information on which an opinion is based, which is annexed to the opinion. The opinion should never be based on information that cannot be shared with the data subject. I think that too is an important guarantee: so you can simply see why an opinion is there. The evaluation of the Bibob Evaluation and Enlargement Act states that copies of the Bibob advice are not always provided to the person concerned. In the cabinet response to the evaluation it was reported that the Bibob National Bureau would be asked to provide more information on the legal status of the person concerned. As indicated in the note on the report, attention has been paid to this in the communication of the Bibob Rural Office and it is also systematically addressed in the information and training of the Office to public authorities. So we've found that that didn't always go well. That has been given extra attention, and I should like to put it this way. It is up to the Personal Data Authority to assess whether the GDPR is correctly applied in specific cases. In addition, the data subject may, of course, submit a refusal to comply with an inspection request to the court. Those are additional safeguards, which we have properly arranged on the front. Let's see. I think I have another question from Mr Van Nispen. In fact, I have already mentioned this, but I will mention it for a moment, because I think he asked this question in various parts of his speech. Why is it professional to test acquaintances of acquaintances? That's how he formulated it. In the context of the Bibob Act, it is not only relevant whether the applicant has committed criminal offences himself, but also persons in the business environment. We have also noticed that it is extremely important to create the space to check, for example, strawman constructions. We see criminals thinking: I'm not passing a Bibob test, but I'm asking that one and that one. So that is not the knowledge of an acquaintance of an acquaintance in the sense of: who has ever been to your birthday party? But we do want to prevent you from using people who are going to take care of this for you and apply for a permit, on which we are still empty-handed, while all the possibilities of our democracy, of our society, from permits to subsidies are being abused by criminals. Hence the extra step. Mr. Chairman. If I'm right, I've answered everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u66	Thank you. Then I suggest we... Mrs. Michon-Derkzen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u67	I had asked the Minister a question about the appreciation of the mayors' wish to give the police independent tip authority. I'm very curious about her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u68	Perhaps the Minister would also like to give an appreciation of the amendments tabled. This can also be done in the second term, but if it is done in the first period, everyone will have clarity immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u69	Yeah, I'd like that, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u70	I will come back to Mrs Michon-Derkzen's question about the police. Maybe we should do that in second term, because I know I've seen the answer, but I've lost it for a while. But I do have the amendments here. It's two, isn't it? Let's see if this goes well. I have an amendment from Mrs Michon and Palland and one from Mrs Palland and Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u71	I think there are two amendments, namely those on item Nos. 9 and 11. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u72	I have here the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u73	10 has turned 11, I understand. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u74	Is that the amendment to item No. 11?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u75	Yes, and that is to replace the amendment to item No. 10. Then we have the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Palland and Mr Bikker, in place of Amendment No 9 by Mr Bikker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u76	So that's the amendment in part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u77	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u78	I think I do, too. Let me now move on to the amendment to item No. Begin nine. That is the amendment by the CDA and the Christian Union, on bringing the open house structures in the procurement of care under the scope of Bibob. I understand what the amendment is asking for, but I must advise against it for the following reasons. The amendment provides that open house constructions in the procurement of care will also fall within the scope of the Bibob Act, as is currently the case for regular public procurement. As far as we are concerned, the right of legal persons, the statement on the behaviour of legal persons, is a more appropriate and simpler alternative, which also allows for an assessment of the integrity of open house structures. Since there are many healthcare providers in an open house construction that are allowed to offer care in a municipality, there may be several hundreds of them in a municipality, this amendment may result in the heavy Bibob testing being applied in a large number of additional cases, for example in those several hundred in a given municipality, with the corresponding implementation consequences and administrative burdens. Once again, I understand what the amendment is looking for, but I think that a vote for legal persons would be better. The amendment can then be regarded as not proportionate, because there is a more appropriate and lighter alternative. The case in which a municipality should take a heavy Bibob test for several hundred suppliers is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u79	If you go through with it, the Minister's gonna put a bomb under the whole Bibob law. You can apply for that right for legal persons on all these points, including in all the other branches. That's where it's considered proportional. Why? Because the municipality has the option. You don't have to, but the municipality can choose. Especially in the healthcare sector, we have seen on a number of fronts that criminals are really trying to take over. In the area of Twente it became clear in 22 municipalities that criminals began to run the care organisation and even participants were cutting pot plants, and that was not in the context of an experiment. That just wasn't right. I really think that the Bibob Act applies to those points. It is absolutely wonderful that a vog can be applied for! But there are times when the Bibob Act can help. It has been said before, also through this Chamber: bring the care underneath. Of course, municipalities have to consider in wisdom whether it is proportionate to use this instrument. I would therefore ask the Minister, in view of what I have said, to reconsider her opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u80	I understand what Mrs Bikker is saying. Only, the nature of such an open house construction is that there can be a huge number of candidates, hundreds. That makes that, if you want to use an instrument in a targeted way, it is not proportional. That was not such a good line, but I think Mrs Bikker understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u81	But with the Law Bibob, the municipality can make the assessment. A number of municipalities have asked for it themselves. They said, please, give us this opportunity in the social domain. I am, of course, open to suggestions to make the amendment even more effective, but we must be able to prevent criminals from running the place in the social domain. Neither of us want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u82	I'm afraid we can't get out of this very much. Again, I understand what Mrs Bikker is looking for. I wonder if this is the right instrument for this particular case of these constructions, when buying care. In fact, I don't think we're gonna get out and it's not him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u83	That's okay, too. It's a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yeah, I know, but it went so well all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u85	Yeah, but we have another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u86	Yes, we have another amendment, by Mrs Michon and Mrs Palland. It's not gonna be like that either. The amendment in part No. 11 asks to make it possible for Bibob to investigate the purchaser of former government real estate, provided that there is a chain bond on it. Such a clause obliges future owners to request permission from the government that used to own each resale. In these situations, it concerns the sale of real estate between individuals. It's about the situation in which you once sold it as a government, saying "if you sell it again, then you have to ask permission" and then the private individual sells it to another private individual. The Bibob Act applies only in the case of a legal relationship between the government and the private sector. The objective of the Bibob Law is what we've been talking about all evening; but I'll mention the objective here, after all, is to preserve the integrity of the government. In the case of a real estate transaction between two individuals, while the property is no longer in the possession of the government, the question is to what extent the integrity of the government is at stake because of the mere fact that a municipality has stipulated in a possible distant past that a sale requires permission from the municipality. I do have a suggestion here. If the aim is to be able to monitor the real estate market better, then I think it is more convenient to think about regulating real estate, for example with a permit requirement for the transfer of real estate in certain situations. When a permit requirement is added, you have to apply for a permit. Then it could fall under the Bibob. For this, there is no need for an amendment to the legal treatment of the Bibob Act. This can be done by asking the BZK colleagues: research and see how you can do it. When you have to apply for a permit to do so, you could drop it under the Bibob Act. Then you have achieved the same effect, but within the scope of the Law Bibob.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u87	The Minister's suggestion to do it with a permit is charming, but I do not agree with her argument against this amendment. The Minister states that it is a sale between two individuals, but precisely that chain clause makes there a public interest. Of course, a municipality doesn't do that for all the real estate. You're looking out! So you do that for real estate in vulnerable areas. One example from the G4 is the sale of real estate on the Walls. The government bought that up first. When selling, they want to know that three years later they are not back to square one because it falls into criminal hands. Does the Minister therefore agree with me that precisely that consent requirement, which is what this chain clause means, means that there is a public interest and that we should therefore also allow the municipalities or that administrative body to objectify that consent? So you can do that very well with a decision on a Bibob test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u88	I understand. That's why I tried to think along. But a chain clause in this context or in any context doesn't change the fact that it can still be sold by a private individual to a private individual, without the need for a permit. In my view, the scope of the Bibob Act is greatly increased by this amendment. If your goal is to be able to steer that way, I say: let's see with the BZK how you can add that it makes sense that a permit is applied for and let's see how we can bring it under the Bibob Act. Then you will remain within the scope and within all the safeguards that we have, and then, in my opinion, you will achieve the same goal, only by means of an amendment; that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u89	What I find difficult is that there is now a lot of real estate with these kind of chains. The municipalities are just having it going on right now. They have these chain clauses, especially for crucial and vulnerable real estate. You say that ideally a licensing system around fragile real estate is being built. That's a different model, but it's not gonna do us any good today. That's what's happening now. That's what we read in the letters from the mayors about it. I would like to ask through the President: how is it possible to implement that existing authorisation requirement today, according to the Minister? Then what is a mayor basing himself on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u90	I'm not sure we can work that out today. But I would say: instruct me, and especially my colleague from BZK, to work on this, to achieve the same goal in such a way that it also fits within the scope of the law. You can do that with a motion. That can be done here with a commitment from me. But then we can at least take concrete steps within the scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Sneller has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u92	I asked for the possibility of giving the FIU a tip-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u93	Yeah, that's right. I have yet to answer that question. A public authority may give a tip to another public authority in the event of a strong suspicion that criminals are involved in an undertaking which has or has applied for authorisation or other legal act under the Bibob Act with that other administrative body. The information available to FIU is, in principle,'soft'. When the information is refined, it becomes police information. It's much more reasonable for the police to come up with a tip together with the D.A.'s office. In that sense, it requires one action in between. So it is not directly tipped from FIU, but it is tipped towards police information and then on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u94	We've turned the tables for a while. In the case of administrative bodies, we say that there is already a right to tip if there is a reasonable suspicion that an offence would be committed for which an administrative penalty would be imposed. I understand that this does not apply to FIU data on unusual transactions. But in the case of suspicious transactions that the FIU has already investigated, and which are actually similar to a police report, we say: yes, we have to build in an intermediate step through the D.A.'s office. I just don't understand the argument for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u95	I am simply saying that the information available to FIU in principle is not hard enough for this. But it's different when it's become police information. I understand what Mr Sneller is saying. But the information from FIU is basically too soft for this. As soon as it's police information, that tip authority can be deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u96	So if we turn it into an amendment that states that the FIU is given a tip-off in suspicious transactions, then can the Minister get away with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u97	I should read the amendment in its entirety first. In any case, I understand what Mr Sneller is looking for. I have just explained to you where this extra step is needed in this question. If I get the amendment later or soon, I can respond to it from that idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u98	I still miss an answer to my question about what I called "the imminent division," so the question about bad life behaviour. You can now see in municipal policies, where they have to fill in bad life behavior, that these are violence, drugs or fraud with social security legislation. But what isn't mentioned? Tax fraud! So let's be careful of that. How does the Minister see that? Is she planning to restore that balance somehow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u99	I think it is very good that Mr Van Nispen is making this point. He does that in various debates, and rightly so. As a Member of Parliament, I have once argued that scum is scum. It doesn't matter what background someone has or what the action was. If you do anything -- in this case, to undermine our rule of law, to hurt people, or for your criminal activities -- it doesn't matter. Mr Van Nispen is right to draw attention to this. The Bibob Act aims to ensure the integrity of the government, and therefore also applies when using that service. So the Bibob Act doesn't make a distinction between them at all. But I have heard Mr Van Nispen's comments. I'll also take them to the places where I can put them. Because there just shouldn't be that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u100	Thank you. Is it also possible to bring this to the attention of municipalities? I respect the relationship and I also understand that a municipality is not going to say: this policy is not right. I wouldn't do that either, although I have a cautious opinion on it. Is that still possible in some way? And can the Minister come back to the Chamber on that? How are we really gonna get rid of these crooked relationships?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u101	This is certainly something we can take with us, for example, towards the National Bureau of Bibob and the RIECs, who are working on this very concretely in their supportive and advisory task towards the municipalities. That's how we've done it in the past. Even after evaluations you can say: hey, this can be sharper, this can be better. That's how you can bring this to the attention of the public. What exactly is the scope of that? It's just very wide. It doesn't matter. This is about preventive action and guarding the integrity of the government. Mr Van Nispen is right: one crime is no less serious than the other. We want to keep our public bodies integrity and clean. As far as I am concerned, we are simply giving this as an extra point of attention to the National Bureau of Bibob and the RIECs. Then we'll come, I think, a whole end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u102	I have another outstanding question about the police tip-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yeah, I'd go into that in the second term. I've lost it for a while. I know you asked the question. I answered it somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u104	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u105	That's gonna come in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u106	The only thing is that the answer depends very much on my follow-up, but then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u107	That sounded very threatening, but it makes sure that I might be there later...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u108	We'll suspend for a while, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u109	Yeah, haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u110	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I thank the Minister. I suggest we start immediately with the second term. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Michon-Derkzen. She's ready. There was also a motion in the air. Well, we're all going through it. Mrs. Michon-Derkzen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I didn't get a reply from the Minister on the police tip. I do like that very much, because that is a wish of the G4 mayors and the Brabant mayors. I am therefore tabling a motion for a resolution in anticipation of that reply. That might also encourage us to give the answer. If the motion isn't necessary, I'll rescind her. That's how I'm gonna do it. With this tip power you can also improve the information position of the administrative bodies. I think we should take advantage of everything that contributes to this. The police now have the power to give a tip through the Public Prosecutor's Office, but as far as I am concerned she should also be given the power to give a tip directly. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police do not currently have a direct tip function but an indirect tip function, namely through the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[noting that the police are now competent to provide certain police data only if an administrative body has initiated its own Bibob investigation;]] [[Whereas the use of tip powers in Bibob contributes to the prevention of unintentional facilitation of criminal activities;]] [[Whereas the G4 and B5 municipalities, the RIEC-LIEC and the regional mayors have indicated that it is very important for practice to take a number of legal measures to improve the information position of administrative bodies, including a police tip;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate further the request of the G4 and B5 municipalities, the RIEC-LIEC and the regional mayors for a police tip function, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the latest six months after the entry into force of the second tranche of Bibob,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35764-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mr. Chairman. Then my second point for the second term. Mrs Bikker drew attention to this in her contribution and in an interrupting debate. This concerns the application of this law by municipalities. This law can prevent an administrative body from doing business with criminals and giving scope to criminal activities, so that it can also be an independent administrative body. As far as my group is concerned, integrity is not a choice. Yet we see that municipalities do not apply this law everywhere. The VNG helps, supports and explains. The Bureau of Bibob is helping. The RIEC can help. Still, a community that doesn't look doesn't see anything. I attach great importance to the active application of this Law Bibob. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Dutch shopping streets there are examples of shops where there is rarely anyone, where nothing happens, who are run by criminals to launder criminal money;]] [[noting that the Bibob Act has not yet been applied or too little in some municipalities, thus getting away with their dark practices and unwittingly allowing communities to commit crime;]] [[noting that if some municipalities do not apply the Bibob Act, while others do, this leads to a waterbed effect;]] [[noting that although the vast majority of municipalities claim to have Bibob policies on paper, this in no way means that the Bibob Act is also applied in practice;]] [[Whereas the Bibob Act is indispensable in the fight against organised crime and thus money-laundering;]] [[Whereas integrity is not a choice and the Bibob Act is an indispensable administrative instrument to ensure the integrity of government;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the National Bureau of Bibob, to come up with an overview of municipalities that do not apply the Bibob Act or do not inform the LBB, with the aim of encouraging municipalities to apply the Bibob Act actively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35764-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm kind of looking for the purpose of this. I understand and agree with the point; I myself asked that question about those shopping streets full of call shops or sandwich shops where no one ever goes, so I get the problem. But the purpose of such a list of municipalities that do not or hardly apply it, is that a kind of wall of shame, say? Should these municipalities be ashamed of that application? What I'm looking for... There is also the problem of capacity. Perhaps there are good reasons why some municipalities cannot apply it. Or there's just really no signals. So is it meant to nail them to the brink? And two: how do we know whether or not there is a good reason for them to use the Bibob test or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u114	Yes, a fair question from Mr Van Nispen. Look, I'd really like to nail it to the shame. But what happens when we make it public is that all those criminals go to these municipalities together. So those aren't lists to publish. I think that, with all the support that is already being given to municipalities and to all the capacity problems, and I also recognise that it is not possible for you, where you could apply it, to make the decision not to apply it. And I therefore believe that the Minister and her people, in cooperation with the VNG and with the Bureau of Bibob, are more active in this regard. I do not want to go through all these municipalities with each other, to say who does not and why not, and deal with all of this in this case, rather than. However, I do think that, at official level, the discussion with the Ministry, with the VNG and with the Bureau of Bibob should be really serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u115	Thank you, Mrs Michon-Derkzen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the answer, and also for promising to investigate that capacity and expertise with the governing bodies and other organisations involved. Perhaps, in the second term, the Minister could indicate when we can expect this research to be about, what the planning is for it to be. From the signals I get, it is mainly about financial research and expertise in this area. Then there's the tip-off power of those governing bodies. In my view, the Minister's expectations are well justified, and Mr Helder underlines that it will not be so rapid. At the same time, we thought that with other powers too, and I have some concerns about why it is so sloppyly claused - to put it bluntly. When it may happen, to whom, by whom, that is all kept so open in the law, while I think: we can build in a lot more safeguards there, without compromising the effectiveness of this law. And I just don't understand why that wasn't chosen. Then there is the Bibob quality committee. If it does not appear to be a possibility in the second term, is it not possible, for example, to have the JenV Inspectorate look at the other Bibob investigations that they are doing without the courts having to do so? Thanks for the answer on FIU.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u117	Before you continue, Mrs. Michon-Derkzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u118	Yes, Mr. Chairman. One question to Mr Sneller on this point, because I am intrigued by that. I also heard you interrupting with the Minister. You actually say: the municipalities do nothing but make decisions all day long; they issue permits, they make Bibob decisions all day long. And now you're saying, but on those Bibob decisions the municipality makes, I need a quality check, and I want the inspection on that. But if that's what you think, what do you think of all the other decisions the municipality makes all day long? Or are you saying that these are such far-reaching decisions, I really want to know whether the municipality is doing its job properly? Because if you wish, I ask Mr Sneller, through the chairman, you can do so on all the decisions of the municipality. I find that a very strange question, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u119	Well, I believe that this is indeed a far-reaching power that municipalities have, that is not something the city council controls, and we have here precisely the treatment of a law that extends the powers in this area. It therefore seems to me that we should look at what legal protection and what safeguards there are in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u120	The City Council shall not review any decision of a college of B and W. The city council determines the policy. The city council shall adopt the budget. It is then up to the College to take decisions. If a person does not agree, he shall have the right to appeal and appeal. In this case, there is also an additional legal protection, namely the view. So there's actually one more step for regular legal protection. It is up to you, but I say through the chairman that I find it strange that you say, precisely on these decisions of the municipality, that there should be an additional quality test, because you are wondering whether they can actually do it. If you go that way, I ask through the chairman, where does it end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u121	I have no idea where it's gonna end, Mrs. Michon. But in my view, I have argued here in the first term why I believe that the combination of additional powers created will also lead to additional investigations, including by municipalities which now have less experience with them. This is a far-reaching competence, which I think would indeed be good if we had an image of it and had a finger on the wrist when it was deployed. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the FIU. Thanks for the answer. I understand the nuances that the minister puts in there. I will amend the amendment that I am preparing to do so. That is, therefore, formally coming your way. Thank you for the commitment to review the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u122	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker, Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for answering and explaining a number of things in the law that needed clarification, or needed clarification, which is perhaps a little more beautiful. Mr. Chairman. My group's concern is that of implementation. The Minister has clearly noticed this in my contribution to the first term. It will also be deployed in the rural area, where the stakes are likely to be even less now. Besides, we're sure that's true, because we see it on the map. The effort is less there, but the criminal pressure of undermining is, frankly, only increasing there. Those bottlenecks are commonplace. I have looked at the report on Groningen and it shows that. It was reassuring to hear the Minister's response on the one hand, because she is indeed going to look into it and has promised a five-year evaluation. She's also gonna keep her finger on the wrist in between. And yet I'm just not quite there, so to speak. So I'm filing a motion. If the minister says she's taking over, I'll withdraw the motion with equal love. That's not the point. But it's all about getting that implementing power in order. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant differences between municipalities and regions in the extent to which the Bibob test is used;]] [[Whereas the Bosman Commission recommends that the impact of legislation on implementation be closely monitored;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an insight into the feasibility of the Bibob Law for the examination of the Justice and Security budget, to indicate how this feasibility can be improved, including, on the contrary, those municipalities which have less recourse to assistance from the Bibob Rural Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bikker and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35764-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u124	When I just heard the earlier motion, I thought this might be the slightly more cheerful variant of how we can look at that performance. Anyway, everyone has their own qualifications. Mr. Chairman. I would like a more concrete answer from the Minister on one point. You can see that on those Bibob forms. She said the AP should take a look at that. So I can't prick it all in time, but I can assume that it will come around at the latest this autumn? Is the Minister going to promote this very much on her part? And if it takes longer, will she contact the room for a moment? As far as the IRS is concerned, I know there are conversations going on. I also know that if it insists, the Minister will contact the Chamber. Did I understand correctly that that was the promise? I hope that if she takes over the motion or if the motion is adopted, she will also look at the feasibility of municipalities struggling with branching issues. I mentioned the car sales in Tilburg. That wasn't answered in the first term, so that's why I'm picking it up. I ask the Minister to look at how we can also promote feasibility in this respect. Then there are the amendments, Mr President. We can do that in exactly 30 seconds. You will understand that the amendment that I have tabled along with Mr Palland remains. Because we didn't agree. I'm still convinced of our explanation. That's what you have in life very often. The second amendment that I am preparing, which I have some doubts about, actually sees the point that is going to be dealt with in the Environment Act, namely the noise barrier in Spijk, in which environmentally polluting steel has been thrown. That really is a form of environmental crime. I'm afraid if we wait for the Environment Act, it's gonna take a long time. But I'm open to good suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u125	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u126	Thank you. Again, I support the purpose of the Bibob. I also understand the proposals that have been made. But I naturally drew attention to the position and legal protection of those concerned in the first period. I believe that, if you extend your powers, it is very important to keep an eye on whether someone has access to the file, the data is correct and the right decisions are made. I think it's important to keep an eye on that. I shall be tabling a motion in a moment after I have made my last comment and put a question. I expect that the Minister has said so in the second term to answer the question on the scope of the tip power. How exactly is it defined which municipalities are allowed to be tipped off? Are these the municipalities in the region or, so to speak, is that the whole of the Netherlands? Is that really in the law or is that otherwise limited? You can keep saying that it's just a tip and that there really still has to be research on it, but with a tip there is of course always the hint.You can't ignore that there is something going on with the person or party involved. My concern is: where is the data? Will they be neatly destroyed if no Bibob investigation follows? Will that data be destroyed if there is an investigation, but nothing will come of it? Are those data always destroyed? I think the answer should be "yes," but how do we know it will happen in practice? That remains a bit of my question. How do we prevent data from being improperly stored as a result of tips and wrongly used against someone? Then, finally, the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that verification of the accuracy of information and the legality of the collection of the data is primarily to the processing body itself and that verification will only take place if an appeal is made against a decision;]] [[considers that persons concerned should be given sufficient legal protection against the processing of personal data by an administrative body so that they can at any time assess which information has been used and whether the information used is correct;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether in practice those concerned are sufficiently and in time to have access to the underlying information used by an administrative body in order to reach a decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35764-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u128	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has indicated that she needs about ten minutes to prepare herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u129	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with the questions that were still open and then go into the motions. The first question I have before me is that of Mr Sneller: can you give a deadline for examining the capacity of the municipalities? I'll come back to that before the end of the year. Mr Sneller also asked whether it would be an option to have the JenV Inspection carried out on a random basis. The inspection is not competent to do so. The inspection shall supervise implementation organisations in the field of Justice and Security. I appreciate Mr Sneller's attempt to come up with something else, and I understand that very well, but I insist that we have sufficient guarantees, because of all the elements I have just mentioned. Mrs Bikker asked: would you like to bring the construction permit under the Bibob Act before the Environment Act comes into force, if it takes too long? I wanted to say that she threatened an amendment. But that's lame. She said that might be another option. The bill ensures that more environmental permits are brought under the scope of the Bibob Act when the Environmental Act enters into force. I do understand what Mrs Bikker is looking for, so I do not think it is a very strange idea to bring construction permits under the scope of the Bibob Act if it takes too long for the Environment Act to come into force. If Mrs Bikker were to consider an amendment to this effect, I would be able to leave it to the Court to decide, if that amendment were to include: leave construction permits under this law before the Environment Act enters into force. In any case, it is in line with the idea of the bill. That's why I went looking for a way to find each other in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u131	I appreciate that. Then we're just gonna finish that amendment neatly with a horizon clause in it, so that it expires when the Environment Act gets there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u132	Smart move. Then I have another one of Mrs. Bikker's. She came back to the various branches and referred to the example of car rental in Tilburg. I understand. It is good that, in the second term, she has called for extra attention to be paid to this. The National Bureau of Bibob has, as has been said, the legal task of informing and advising administrative bodies, including from the support, from the RIECs. So I think it is good to continue to draw attention to this. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Bibob form scheme, I have explained that a few steps are needed. Then we also depend on when the AP starts working on it. I can tell Mrs Bikker that it will not be up to us. So we'll keep that pace going. To be honest, I expect it to be completed by the end of autumn, but, as I have said, I am not the only one to deal with this. But that's what we're expecting right now. Then Mr Van Nispen had another question about the scope of the tip power. For example, are you allowed to tip all neighboring municipalities? Let me briefly summarize how our conversation went. No, it's not just like that. So that's really not the issue. It concerns a strong presumption that criminals are involved in an undertaking which has or has applied for authorisation or other legal act under the Bibob Act with that other administrative body. In principle, a tip is simply linked to the application for a permit, for example. Or they think the permit is going to be applied for. So that's basically the delineation. In theory it can be two or three municipalities, but in practice it is reasonably clear when and when not. He also had the question of how long the tip will last. Again, the tip is literally, "Hey, watch it." But there will still have to be thorough research, because you don't share information. It is therefore also linked to an action, such as applying for a permit. In principle, therefore, there is no time limit for storage. But in practice that will mean the following. Let's say that that action or risk has been completed, that the licence has not been applied for, that the person has left again or that it has ended. Then the tip has no value, which only meant: hey pay attention, because the person can apply for a permit. I think I have answered all the questions and I only have the four motions. The first motion belongs to Mrs. Michon. I called it on myself, because if I had answered directly, she wouldn't have had to file it. I think so, because it's supporting the bill. She calls for extra attention to be paid to the tip function of the police. The tip function of the police is in fact already covered by this bill. I consider it to support the bill. Then the motion is not necessary. If she wants to put her to the vote, I'll give her a room to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u133	Or you can take him over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u134	I'd like to take him over, too, but Mrs. Michon is coming to the microphone threateningly, so I'm gonna take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u135	There's no direct tip function for the police right now. The police have a tip function through the D.A.'s office. So it's actually up to the D.A. to tip it off. The police are delivering to the D.A.'s office. I'd like to use this motion to see if the police can have that direct tip function. If that's what you want to do, I'd love to. If you would like to get back to that in that letter, which I am asking, then very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u136	Do you then withdraw the motion, or do you want the Minister to take it over?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u137	If I may give an answer first, perhaps Mrs Michon can think of that. The bill does provide a direct tip function for the police. Our conversation is now part of the legal process, so we have made that explicit. Any public authority authorised to apply the Bibob Act shall be subject to the proposed tip authority. It's in Article 26. For a test on the crossing of investigative powers, it will usually be reasonable to contact the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is not a criterion or a prerequisite. With the legislative proposal, I think we have made that very clear and with our conversation now it has become even more explicit. Therefore: unnecessary, take over; whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u138	This is a very pleasant addition, even to the history of this law. I understand very well that the police are aligning with the prosecution, but it is precisely the situation in which it is not really a criminal matter, but the police are often in there and so it is not a matter for the prosecution, but the police do feel called to say something about it. If I hear you correctly, you say there's a direct tip-off. I think it's a good idea to agree, but you don't have to. That is what we have here. Then I'll withdraw this motion, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u139	Since the Michon-Derkzen motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u140	I don't want to take this commitment down, but I wouldn't have taken it out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u141	That's why I thought it was good to say it explicitly here during the legal process. I understand there was some confusion about it. Article 26 states this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u142	It is particularly important that the discussion is part of the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u143	You can do it with all the love of that motion, you know. I understand the search, and that's why I'm putting it here explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u144	"Or a legal person with a public function empowered to apply this law'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u145	That's the police. It's part of that. I understand the confusion. It is therefore a good thing that it is explicitly requested. I totally understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u146	Then the motion to part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u147	He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion calls on the government, in consultation with VNG and the like, to come up with an overview of municipalities that do not apply the Bibob Act. Having said that 97% of them have incorporated it into the policy and are now working on it, Parliament's verdict. Then I have the motion in part number. 14 by Mrs Bikker and Mr Van Nispen. It calls for an understanding of the feasibility of the Bibob law for the examination of the Justice and Security budget. That is really too short to be able to test this properly. I just promised an evaluation after five years. I'd like to take this with me. It is unrealistic to have been able to assess the feasibility of the budget in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u148	So you're dissuading the motion in this form. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u149	The Minister knows I'm not the worst. What would be a deadline for her to test that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u150	I'd really like him on the evaluation after five years. We have also agreed on other issues, such as that after a year we will look at the elements of capacity. But it takes really careful research to be able to say something meaningful about the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u151	That's five years. I think it's been a long time. I can consider that, for example, it comes to the next report from the Bibob National Bureau. That's once a year. And then I can also imagine that it is increasing somewhat in the monitoring and that the Minister says: we can look at that from now on. If it's less extensive the first year, you won't hear me squeal. But it's really important to me. Even during the debate I get signals from mayors who say: I'm really up and if I didn't have the RIEC here, I wouldn't get anything from Bibob. I really think it's important that this happens. I'd like to change the motion, but for five years, I think it's too long. I hope the Minister understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u152	The National Bureau does not investigate the feasibility of municipalities. So it's not the place to put it in there. I understand what Mrs Bikker is saying. At the same time, we have made additional funds available for the RIECs. Here comes some extra backup. You also want to put that away in a good way and get it back in practice. This is important to me, too. It's not like I don't agree with what's being asked. I'm just trying to find a moment where we can do this right. At least we'll include it in the evaluation after five years. This is not the only debate. Bibob is part of a comprehensive approach to organised crime. This is a preventive measure to maintain the integrity of the public administration. But we have a lot of instruments. So it comes back, also with the deployment of the RIECs and how we designed them. My request would be: not this motion, but then let me see at what times it is possible, earlier than those five years. Then I'll come back to that honestly. I can't set a deadline right now, because it really requires a few steps from us. I know that the Bosman Committee has said: focus on the consequences for implementation. But I also need time to roll out that performance and see it. It is precisely from the support of the National Bureau and from the support of the reinforced RIECs, reinforced by additional resources, that I would like to give that a chance. I need to be able to put that away in a good way, at least in five years. And let us include this in the debates we often have on organised crime, to see where it might be possible in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u153	Finally, Mrs Bikker, on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u154	You feel good that we have not completely agreed. I appreciate that the Minister is doing her best to see how we can get a good picture of the feasibility and that we are doing justice to what is being used. The other way around, I think five years is too long. In the meantime, we do not have the right finger on the wrist, except that I must hope that in a major debate the whole Bibob story will be stirred up again. I think that's too complicated. I'm gonna change the deadline in the motion. Then we still do not agree, but I would like to do justice to the Minister's objection. But for five years, I think it's too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u155	Yes. You disagree. Mr. Van Nispen, is it about this motion? Five questions have just been asked about the motion, including your name. We're not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, because something is going wrong here. We have a law with a can-determine. Municipalities can apply the Law Bibob. Today it will be extended further. We know that there are implementation problems in the municipalities and that questions have been asked about capacity. Now there is a rather prickly motion of the VVD, which says: make an overview of the municipalities that do not use the law. Some kind of blacklist is, actually. That motion will be judged by Chamber. It's possible. Then there is a motion asking to investigate what municipalities need to use the Law Bibob and that is not possible. That motion will be dissuaded. Does the Minister feel that something is not going well here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u157	What motion is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u158	It's about the same motion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u159	On the motion in part No. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u160	Yeah, about the motions in part No. 13 and 14. I'm really disappointed that you're giving a motion judgment room, asking for a blacklist...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u161	You just explained. I will give the Minister one last chance to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u162	I have just said that I very much agree with the intention of this motion, but that the understanding is not going to come to the discussion of the budget of Justice and Security. So I'm looking for a moment. I say at least we have an evaluation after five years, but of course we keep a finger on the wrist. We're in contact with the RIECs and the municipalities. But what possibilities do I have in the meantime to make that concrete? I am perfectly capable of saying that, in dealing with the budget of Justice and Security, I give the impression that I cannot give an insight, but that is simply a blur. We're gonna do this. We're gonna strengthen the RIECs. We're gonna help the congregations. I am literally saying to Mrs Bikker and now to Mr Van Nispen that I support the intention. But I must be able to carry out the motion. The feasibility on this side is equally relevant, because then you will have the data you are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u163	It's gonna be a repeat now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u164	But a blacklist can suddenly? I think it's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u165	It's not a blacklist. If 97% of the municipalities use the Law Bibob, then they ask about the municipalities that do not use it to see what else we can do there. It's possible. I have also indicated that with 97% of the municipalities I am wondering what additional profits we can achieve. But it's possible. I hope that Mr Van Nispen does not mean that I am giving the motions of certain parties a faster judgment Chamber than others. No? Then we don't have to argue about it, because it really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u166	It was about the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u167	Clear. Then we have the motion in part no. 15. It belongs to Mr Van Nispen and to Mr Sneller and I must advise against it, because the Bibob and GDPR Act already provide legal protection. So this is already settled. I don't see the added value of an extra study. Data subjects will be informed of a Bibob procedure by default. I explained all these steps in my first term. There are a lot of safeguards built in, especially about legal protection. It is quite right that there are questions about it, and even a motion, but we have already defined this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you. That concludes the debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, as well as the spokesmen and the people who have followed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-24-tweedekamer-10.u169	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the bill, the amendments and the motions. A number of amendments are still pending. I expect the Minister to give a written appreciation of the amendments that are still being tabled. I thank everyone and close the meeting.
