ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the Enlargement Act on administrative instruments for education (35920). I would like to welcome the people who are following the debate at a distance, like the people here in the public gallery and, of course, the Members of Parliament who have registered there are about ten. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education. We're gonna have the debate on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u2	I would like to give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is a bit of a surprise for us that we are already talking about this law today. This law has been announced for a long time and the Chamber has been asking for it for a long time, and the minister's predecessor was already working on it, but at the end of May a substantial letter of amendment was tabled which did change a number of relevant matters. As a result, we wanted a further written consultation. Mr De Hoop asked for this on our behalf, but there was no agreement from the coalition colleagues. That is why I am going to ask a number of very technical questions which we would have preferred to have completed in writing. I will also leave this debate earlier. That's not because I don't think it's important, because I really think legislation is at the heart of what we're doing here, but there's also a committee debate on corona going on. Of course, my policy officer is following the whole debate. We will listen carefully to the Minister's answers and to the contributions of the others. Mr. Chairman. As I said, there has often been a request for the Enlargement Act on administrative instruments of education and has often been referred to. The Chamber itself has a large part to play in this, because every time something happened at a school, we stood here asking the Minister why he had not intervened before and how he guaranteed the safety of the pupils and the staff. That's why there's a law now. This is partly due to incidents at the VMBO Maastricht, the Haga Lyceum and the Avicenna College. That is why the minister's predecessor has written a law that allows the minister to intervene in extreme cases. It is a good thing that we are talking about this, because if something is going on in a school for a long time, something that really cannot be accepted must be dealt with. We have too often been powerless here in recent years, because there was no timely intervention, because we were also afraid of the safety of children, of good education, and because we noticed that legislation was somewhat inadequate. Every child deserves quality education, but school must of course also be a safe place for every child, a place where children do not have to deal with anti-legal, undemocratic ideas. The questions at the heart of today's debate are whether there can be sufficient action on current legislation, whether this legislation is needed in this way and how broad the powers of the Minister may be to intervene. Especially on that last point, some changes have been made since the last letter of amendment in May. The Minister's powers of intervention have become wider. He can also do this faster than in the original bill. I cannot escape the impression that this also has to do with the style of this minister, who perhaps wants to hit the table a little earlier and a little harder than his predecessor. Is that right? I would also like to ask about the justification for this. In fact, the explanatory memorandum does not make it clear where this change of course comes from, why these changes were made and what the justification is. I'd like a little more text and explanation from the Minister. Why does he think it is necessary to have more possibilities for intervention? Does he also wish to take into account why he explicitly opposes the opinion of the Council of State on some points? Then why wasn't the Council of State asked for advice again? I am also curious whether this new bill, including the letter of amendment, would have worked out anything on the recent issues surrounding Schools of Personal Education and Gomarus. Can the Minister reflect on both? Then there are a number of more specific and more detailed questions about the changes to the proposal; I warned about it, but it is, of course, a law. My first specific question is that the Minister writes that long-term failure to take measures to ensure the quality and good progress of education is regarded as maladministration. But the Minister then writes that there is generally "long-term" failure if "a competent authority has not fulfilled several repair orders" but also that "non-compliance with a single repair order" can lead to long-term failure. Can the Minister explain why he is adapting this and how he can put the failure to comply with one recovery order under "long-term failure"? For the people who want to search it: this is on page 9 of the letter of amendment. I have the same kind of question about the concept of'structural'. The letter of amendment removes the requirement that the infringement must be of a structural nature. The Minister writes that there may also be cases where there is an occasional offence that is so serious that it gives direct cause for a severe sanction such as an indication. Could he give specific examples of this? What kind of offense are we talking about? And why is it necessary to tighten this up? According to the Minister, the imposition of an urgent warning no longer requires a serious suspicion of maladministration, but a reasonable presumption is enough. It wants this change because, in its current view, a serious suspicion is too much detrimental to the practical employability of the instrument. I wonder what that current insight is now. Where did that come from and how did that insight in the past six months suddenly emerge? Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to ask a few questions about non-feasible foundational education. In the written consultation, we asked why this legislative proposal does not also adapt the instruments for non-cost education. The Minister writes that there are no bottlenecks in education in this area with regard to the administrative enforcement system. I'm sorry about the jargon, but it's just a law. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the inspection does not actually provide advice on a non-costed school until it has already started and that there is therefore no sort of gatekeeper function here. Surely it is possible for non-cost schools to turn against the democratic rule of law? How does the minister supervise and control these schools? In all honesty, I am also asking this because I am concerned, for example, about the Renaissance schools that may be set up. In any case, I find it undesirable for a political party to set up schools. I don't think we should want to. At the moment when a party opposes the fundamental principles of our democratic rule of law, I am concerned about these schools. I would like to ask the Minister how we can prevent the school from starting and only then, when we may already know clearly that things are not good, can be dealt with. Mr. Chairman. It is obviously not possible to impose financial sanctions on non-cost education, because there is no financing relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u4	One moment, Mrs Westerveld. You just started a new block. I suspect Mr Beertema would like to interrupt you on the previous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u5	Well, an interruption... It's a very short question. I hear Mrs Westerveld say for a moment that it is not desirable for political parties to set up schools. What I think of that does not matter very much, but you are quite sure about that. I support the creation of the Vrije Universiteit by political parties. It's become a wonderful university. I don't like her course at the moment, but we had at home that little collection van with Abraham Kuyper on it, in which my grandmother and grandmother and my parents put dimes and quarters. So that was our university, from the ARP! What was wrong with that? Could you elaborate that for me, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u6	If we look at how schools and universities have been founded, it might well be that we see that the Free University was founded by a political party. It's been a long time. I don't know how long the Free University has been around, but I'm talking specifically about political parties setting up their own school to give their own ideas to children, which I find undesirable. Nor would I like my party, GroenLinks, to set up a school to teach children the GroenLinks spirit. I don't think we should want that with each other. I say this because we know that the division in society is increasing and I think it is good that children meet as much as possible. That does not mean that political parties are going to set up schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Beertema, the Vrije Universiteit was founded on October 20, 1880. As an alumni, I know that. No, you're not! I just looked it up. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u8	But that does disqualify Mrs Westerveld, of course, Radboud University, where the local diocese has of course had a big finger in the mouth, and the KVP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u9	No, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u10	No, not anymore. But it's a big deal. That goes equally well for other parties, of course. Do you disqualify all those universities and all those school domes that have a special background? Do you say: should we abolish this altogether and set up some kind of'state education'? Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u11	We are about to start an interesting debate on Article 23. I am happy to do so, but no, of course I do not disqualify the existing special institutions. We have had this discussion before in the Chamber. I would, however, like to prevent political parties from setting up schools to teach their own ideas to children. I think we should be very careful about that. With the bill More room for new schools, which we agreed to last year, that space was created. With the knowledge of today, I have to say in all honesty that I think we are missing a number of safeguards in order to be able to intervene in good time and in good time. Of course, we had a very spicy discussion on that bill at the time. Eventually, a majority of the Chamber, including my party, agreed, but I am concerned about it. That is why I am asking questions about this to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u12	Finally, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u13	Finally. GroenLinks and D66 of course do not have to worry, because their ideas are heavily represented in all colleges and universities, so that will be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u14	I'd like to distance myself from this. I have no influence whatsoever on the education given at any university, not even at my own university, where I studied. I would just like to say that to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u15	An interruption by Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mrs Westerveld talks about the Law more room for new schools. Yes, it has given room. It is beautiful in itself when space is given, but Mrs Westerveld also talks about guarantees. Is it not true that this law on the other hand is going to give guarantees that there will be no craziness and that it will also be possible to intervene if that happens? Mrs Westerveld is careful to intervene. I understand that, too. I feel a certain reluctance with her: should we want this? At the same time, I think that in recent years there have been situations where we would have liked there to be an instrument to intervene. So does she agree with me that this law can give the guarantees to avoid unwanted things from the Law more room for schools, or at least fight them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u17	Then let me go back to the question I asked about this, because it was very specific about non-cost education. There is also a difference, at least, as I read the law between what the Minister can do in paid and unpaid education. I wanted to ask him, on the basis of the example, what has been arranged for non-cost education. I also agree with Mr Van Meenen. Over the past few years, we have been on the interrupting microphone with each other and asked the then Minister, Mr Slob, why he had not intervened before. Why hasn't the inspection done anything before? Why can't you... we've asked him many times. As far as I know, the entire Chamber has also asked for a new law. But now that this law is in place, of course we still have a number of questions, namely: is this the right way to do this? I think it's all part of a legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u18	Sure. That's what we're gonna do. I understand your concerns about non-cost education. I thought I felt this reluctance when it was not yet about non-cost education, but I may have misunderstood that in the sense that it should be good and careful but that you do not say that there is no reason in itself to have such a law as this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u19	I understand what Mr Van Meenen is referring to, because I have asked a number of critical questions. I will be asking a few more critical questions, such as: shouldn't participation be given a greater role? When you talk about subsidiarity and proportionality, this law is, in this way, entirely with the considerable tightening up that the Minister gives even more resources and which came in late May... I have a number of very critical questions about that. My basic attitude to this law is positive, but as I actually do with every law, we are waiting for our questions, the questions of our fellow Members, because they often lead to much more insights and, of course, the answers of the minister. On this basis, we decide whether or not we will agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u20	Proceed with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u21	I would have stayed with funding sanctions for non-cost education. Because there is no financing relationship, there is also no supervision of the school's finances and no intervention in financial maladministration. But what happens if certain schools are funded by organisations that we prefer not to fund schools? Is there any way to intervene? If the quality of education suffers from financial maladministration, what happens? And if action cannot be taken by means of financial sanctions, how can action be taken? I would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister on this point. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In fact, the Minister writes in the note on the report "We have also asked in the further report that there is no formal role for the co-determination council or internal supervisors in giving a designation, because the external designation is imposed. He did, however, see the possibility that the competent authority involved the participation council in following up the designation. The Minister also writes that, as in normal cases, the participation council has advisory powers in the appointment or dismissal of members of the board and in the establishment of competence profiles of directors and supervisors. These, of course, seem very gross powers, but they are not. Advisory rights, with all due respect, do not always represent a great deal in practice, and as a participation council you are always dependent on the goodwill of a driver. If I look at the past few years, in which also pastors of this minister have very often referred to participation as the internal watchdog, then I see that in recent years a number of changes have been made which have often been announced with a little more bombs than I thought they really strengthened the position of participation. However, I would like to ask the Minister, is it not also logical in the light of this legislative proposal that we should first give the participation more powers and first ensure that the staff of an institution, together with the students, or in higher education and the MBO with the students, can also intervene if they see that it is going wrong, or that they have a little more to say about the appointment of directors or supervisory boards? Isn't that much more logical, even if you are indeed looking at proportionality, and also at subsidiarity? Isn't that a lot lighter way to really make sure that the closest to them and those who really have the greatest interest in the good quality of education can get to the door earlier? No one has more interest in good quality than their own teachers, students and students. Shouldn't you give them much more powers, perhaps also to prevent the Minister from using the resources in this law later? I would also like an explanation from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u22	This once again leads to an interruption by Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mrs Westerveld and I go back a long way, especially when it comes to the influence and power of the participation councils. Both of us have always found that the co-determination councils are indeed saying, Mrs Westerveld, that even though they are in fact always lagging behind. We have tried very often, and we have come to conclusions and decisions to extend that influence of the co-decision councils. And yet that didn't help. Why not? Because that core is of course blíjft: they are lagging behind, it remains more or less a voluntary function and it must all be done. So basically, participation councils are, well, sitting ducks. They don't really have that much to bring in. Does Mrs Westerveld agree with me that participation in universities is actually very well developed and that it is a factor of power, which you do not just ignore, and that this is an essential difference from participation in other sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u24	Yes, I agree with Mr Bertema. You can also see in the Higher Education Act that this position of participation in colleges and universities is best regulated. A difference between universities and colleges is, of course, that students have a profiling fund there. The fee is not laid down by law, but it has been established that there should be a fee and that they should receive support. Such matters are much less developed in the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Primary Education. Recently I wasn't there, but my colleague, of course, also debated a bill that strengthened the position of students in the MBO, because that too was very behind in higher education. But of course you would like to see a much better support and legal protection for the employees in all these sectors and better information to them. But even if you take care of all this on paper, various evaluations also show that participation is, of course, always dependent on the goodwill of a driver. That's something you can't put on paper. That is something that happens in practice. That is the famous cultural debate to which many of the ministers' predecessors also referred. And how do you change that culture? I wish I had a magic wand for that, and I think Mr Beertema would have liked that too, but I think we can't just do that in legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u25	No, okay. But do you conclude with me that it is not so easy to raise the level of participation in universities to the rest of the sectors? That's not realistic, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u26	So that's what I'm wondering. What would happen if we also ensured that the central participation councils in primary education, secondary education and MBO are better required to provide information, that there is a minimum number of hours available, that there is even better legal facilitation? I think that's gonna take you a long way. Another major problem is the relationship of power, for example when you work at a school and you have to act against the driver of that school. I understand that teachers sometimes feel unsafe. That's something we don't just solve. What we might be able to do is to ensure that Mr Kwint and I have tabled an amendment on this subject, which provides for participation councils to have more say, for example, on the statutory fees of the members of the Supervisory Board. They'll have something in their hands, too. Let us also ensure that drivers are no longer allowed to exceed their salary in accordance with the Standards Act. That is the kind of thing that you can deal with, where Mr Kwint's amendment really deals specifically with those legal limits and ours on strengthening the position of participatory press. So maybe you can do it if you give them some power yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u27	Finally, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u28	We'll keep looking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u29	Clear. Mrs Westerveld, continue with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u30	I was actually going to explain the amendments. We also see a different role for participation, which concerns the remuneration of education supervisors. I have been getting back to that lately, because I am extremely disturbed that people working in the public sector, whether it be care, education or public service broadcasting, are getting a reward that is against the norming Act, whether it even goes over it, and that regulators are also quite often collecting large rewards and are also regulators in many places at the same time. If we look at supervisors in education, the chairman of the Supervisory Board can get a reward of over €30,000. I think that's an awful lot. What bothers me is that supervisors can also determine their own rewards and raise them independently. I don't really know many places where people can decide for themselves. I think this is a very crazy figure, especially in the public sector, where we have a responsibility to each other to handle education money properly. How does the Minister look at that now? Doesn't he think that's undesirable, also because it's about public resources, because there should be accountability somewhere? As far as we are concerned, the participation council is a good one. That is why I tabled an amendment with Mr Kwint, in which the central co-determination council is given the right to vote on the remuneration of supervisors of the institution. So I think this can work both ways, because this also motivates a supervisor to just explain why he or she earns €20,000 a year, what he or she does for it. Let that be a subject of discussion, including pay, and let participation be about that. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that. In addition, Mr Kwint will table another amendment on income above the Top Income Standards Act. Mr. Chairman. Then there is strong criticism from higher education and universities call the proposal an impairment of academic freedom. Academic freedom is also a legal provision. This is provided for in Article 1.6 of the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. As an example, the universities mention the situation in Hungary, where the Orbán government also intervenes in the autonomy of the academies of science. I would very much like to know from the Minister what his response to this criticism is, and how this bill stands against the academic freedom that is common to the universities, and which is also regulated by law. Doesn't that law specifically for higher education leave too much room for the minister? I also understand that criticism, because where we have laid down much better legal rules in basic education what students should know and can do, that is very different in higher education. In higher education, it is deliberately so arranged to give the institutions considerable space. We also have the NVAO, with panels composed of people from higher education itself. Experts who monitor it, who look at the quality, who indeed look at whether training meets their own objectives, who look at how participation is regulated. That is why I wonder whether this bill is not a breach of higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u31	An interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This surprises me a bit, because I think: yes, but this is not at all about what students should know or can do, or what teachers at a university can say to their students? This is about maladministration. This is about insecurity. That is what is happening at the universities, and there is no way of intervening on this at the moment. That's crazy, isn't it? I can give you countless examples of this. Perhaps even more so in higher education, where PhD students, for example, are put under heavy pressure, where there is no safe environment within certain departments, but where nothing is done about it. And that is what this law is about: that there will finally be a toolbox to intervene on it. Surely you cannot say that academic freedom is a freedom to hide maladministration or insecurity behind it and make it untouchable? Mrs Westerveld can't take that seriously, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u33	But that's not what I'm saying. I ask the Minister to what extent this is at odds with each other. As far as the examples mentioned by Mr Van Meenen are concerned, for example, about PhD candidates: I am very curious, but perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later on whether this bill will give the opportunity to intervene. I'm very curious if that's true. But I wonder if that's what this bill is for. And when it comes to the organisation of education, for example, this bill specifically designates the citizenship mission of schools. But we don't know such a legal provision in higher education. There, institutions and training courses are much more free to organise their own education. There we have the NVAO instead of the inspection that looks at quality. There the field itself regulates much more with each other. And that is why I am not saying very clearly that this is an infringement, but I say that I understand the criticism of the institutions, and that is why I am asking a number of questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u34	Well, first of all, I do not think it is the criticism of the institutions, but rather the criticism of the directors of those institutions, to be very precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u35	From the universities of the Netherlands, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u36	Because I think there are a lot of people in those institutions who are looking for a moment when the government is finally going to find something of insecurity, of PhD students who are being pressured and so on. I will not repeat all the examples here. But in Mrs Westerveld's own motivation it was to ask questions about the freedom to teach students things; to hold them up for education, and that the government should be very or completely reluctant to do so and should not do so at all. And I also understand very well about this citizenship mission. It is not there, but there is still a Constitution, which even applies to universities. We have, also Mrs Westerveld and I, often here, pointed to Article 1 of the Constitution, and what is happening about it. That's what this law is all about, isn't it, about conflict? And not that there's a nutty professor somewhere telling students something crazy? No, it's about what happens administratively, or maybe just what doesn't happen, and which leads to bad, but above all unsafe education, or maladministration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u37	Yeah, but let's not create opposite positions here that aren't there. When there are unsafe situations and the Minister offers a way to intervene with this law, I am, of course, very much in favour of that. At the same time, therefore, I understand that there may be criticism for academic freedom, for example, and I do understand the criticism of the institutions. To what extent does this law give the Minister, or perhaps subsequent ministers, who are less in good faith than this minister, the opportunity to intervene? And that's what I'm specifically asking for. And this has nothing to do with me thinking that unsafe situations should continue, or that PhD students should be poorly dealt with. I think that much more should be done against this and I would be glad if this law could do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u38	Finally, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u39	Finally. What in the law makes Mrs Westerveld fear that the Minister can actually intervene in education itself? That's not what this law is about, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u40	This law is, of course, about the Minister being able to intervene when things go wrong for a long time. The Council of State also says that: make sure that you define that better. I think that is also where the criticism of university administrators comes from. It is unclear when exactly the Minister can and cannot intervene. What exactly is maladministration? The law is not very clear about that in every respect. That is why I asked the Minister earlier to give us a little more explanation. So that's where my questions are. That does not mean, I repeat, that I believe that there should be socially unsafe situations and that we should take our hands off them. I believe that we are responsible for the safety of all pupils, of all teachers and of everyone who works in education. I also believe that we have the ultimate responsibility for good education here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u42	My final questions are actually going to go into this. They are again about the question of proportionality. I would like to ask the Minister whether, even when it comes to higher education, it is no longer possible to resolve this problem and to stop it by giving greater participation in it? For example, to stay with Mr Van Meenen's examples, you can have more say about the institution's staff policy and how PhD students are dealt with and with researchers in the field of social security policy. Shouldn't participation also be given a number of powers, for example in the case of maladministration, to deactivate a director? Has this even been considered at all? Has the Minister perhaps also discussed this with the institutions and with the student organisations? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna wrap it up. I said it earlier in reply to a question: we are not at all unwilling to oppose this bill. We think it is extremely important that the Minister should be able to intervene quickly if things cannot be accepted, because we are responsible here for the safety of all pupils and of everyone who works in education and because we are also responsible here for the quality of education. If we look at how long the situation has been going on in a number of schools over the last few years, how we have been getting new disturbing messages, how we have been asking the minister's predecessor to intervene, how we have always found out that this could not be done, then it is quite clear that something needs to change legally. In the end, the students are otherwise the victims. They will receive poor education for a long time and may end up in unsafe situations. At the same time, and the Minister notes this, I also have a number of questions about the enlargement which the Minister also mentioned in the last letter of amendment and why it is necessary. As I said, I am very curious about the answers and the further justification of this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u43	You're gonna get it. Thank you, Mrs Westerveld, for your contribution. I would like to give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There he is at last: the law that has been referred to so often in recent years. Because every time someone stood here, from my party or from another party, to call attention to a failure within a school board, it was said: there will be a law, the law administrative tools. Well, today we finally get to discuss that law. That is good, because, of course, almost everyone who works in education is doing that work in good conscience, but unfortunately we have also seen some examples in recent years where you could certainly doubt the degree of honour and conscience with which that work has been done. We also have to be honest about the fact that sometimes it can be that people who are doing their job to the best of their consciences simply are not fit for it or make a very big mistake. We've seen the examples. They've been coming through here. At the Haga Lyceum, the education inspection didn't even reach the school building. We saw the years of ignoring the improvement assignments, for example in the area of citizenship, at the Cheider. We saw the abuses on the Gomarus. They were in the papers this morning. Recently, we saw how long it took the government to really intervene in a government where everyone who was a little involved has come to the conclusion for years: it's really wrong there. This concerned the Schools of Personal Education. So across the board, whether Christian, Jewish, Islamic or generally special, we see various abuses. No one says that these abuses are structural and that they happen in many schools in this way. But they're here, and that's serious. I believe that the SP was not the only party with growing discomfort about the extent to which the inspection and the ministry could not intervene. So it's good to discuss this law now. When you work in education, you have a heavy responsibility. This applies, of course, not only to teachers and teaching assistants, but certainly also to administrators in education. Let me just ask the cabinet what we are going to have to do about this law in the future on the basis of what has been observed and what has been said in the past. Let's start with the issue of social security: the belief that every pupil and every student deserves a safe place in education. Something interesting has happened recently. The Minister has sent us a letter of amendment in which he further tightens the law. Not a serious suspicion, but a reasonable presumption of insecurity is now the definition that has been introduced into the law. The structural nature of the problem is falling, so that a reasonable suspicion of a serious disturbance caused by pupils or by the rule of law can already be addressed. That sounds like something we can support. I don't want to make it any more exciting than it is. I am curious about the change of clothes, about the way in which the guarantees are properly built in. I could see that Mr Bishop was immediately busy writing and was trying to amend just about everything from the note of amendment. I am sure he will explain that himself in due course. The concern is, of course, that, in my opinion, is the point in which we find each other, that your arbitrariness should ultimately be avoided. I understand that the Minister is giving himself far-reaching influence, but what is ultimately going to be the outcome of this law should not depend on who is in that profession as Minister of Education. Did such a change from "serious" to "reasonable" and the decline of "structural" make any difference in the case of, for example, the Gomarus? The miscarriage that came out of the Gomarus was originally an incident. It started with something that happened to one or two students. It is a miscarriage of which the administration itself says: it should never have happened like this. But it did happen, and it was serious. Could this law have been used in hand before?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u46	I see Mr. Azarkan is watching his phone. The existence of a President of the Chamber is incredibly occupied. I object to the caricature that is constantly being placed here of the case of Gomarus. The inspection did some research there. Things went wrong out there. No truth has been found to the actual situation. It's based on a story like a student experienced. The report issued by the inspection clearly showed that there were no situations, that there were no witnesses to confirm that story, which would confirm similar stories. I find it regrettable that it is always proposed as if this school was constantly in error. I thought, "Don't let me interrupt too much." But again this morning there was another reference in the newspaper, because the COC is not satisfied with a particular decision of the Public Prosecutor. But I strongly object to sticking the sticker "it's an infected school" on it all the time. I do not think that this is a fair, pure, careful approach and dealing with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u47	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u48	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u49	You want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u50	I think I've heard enough to give an answer. Point one. It was a former student who was in the paper this morning, not the COC. Point two. Mr. Bishop is talking about the honest facts, but I think he's responding to something he thought he was hearing instead of what I said. I was not talking about structural abuses at all. I used the Gomarus specifically as an example of the change made by the Minister to the law, in which the structural nature was lost. My question was therefore correct: could the Minister have acted more quickly on the basis of the incident that has occurred in the media? A lot later came out of that, like an inspection investigation and everything, but that's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u51	I would like to stress once again that the education inspector has not done any truth finding. That's not her job either. So she kept her distance from that, too. However, the education inspection did investigate facts, cases that would have occurred. The person who then reports to the press does not report to the educational inspection. We must then base ourselves on an unverified story in the newspaper, while there is a report showing that such situations... In any case, they do not appear in the research of the educational inspection. Mr Kwint asks the Minister: could this package of measures have been applicable to the signal from this school? I think that's a fair question. But I continue to object to the caricature element in the performance that it really went wrong at that school. There's no evidence, no evidence to prove it. There are only individual stories of people who have experienced it differently. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u52	Well, the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u53	One moment, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u54	I'm not gonna touch that. Sometimes things go wrong. It happens at every school. I won't go through with that. There are also many illustrations to be attached to this. Let's keep it out of this school, because this isn't fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mr. Bishop, you just made the same point for the second time. The Rules of Procedure state that an interruption is a question, shortly followed by an explanation. You have now made a point a minute and a half that you made with your first question. I think it's clear what you think. You can also use your speaking time to do so. You have inexhaustible time for that. A brief presentation by Mr Kwint. I would ask colleagues to ask shorter questions. You all have incredibly much knowledge, but it doesn't always have to be displayed. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u56	I was just so excited to showcase my knowledge in detail. I think it's getting a little confusing. I specifically asked if an incident could be dealt with earlier. Then Mr Bishop is right to say that all kinds of things have not been observed by the education inspector. I would have thought that if that had gone well, a board would not have felt called to say: boys, we have made big mistakes. But that's really what the board of that school says: this shouldn't have happened like this; we've gone wrong; we're going deep through the dust. What exactly were the words they used? I think that's a lot. What matters to me is that the whole point I have just tried to make is that, on the basis of a number of incidents that we have seen in recent years from the Minister, I would like to know whether the Ministry, and especially the Education Inspectorate, can intervene earlier in this way. If Mr Bishop thinks that is an annoying style, I fear he will have ten more hard minutes, because my next questions will all be put to individual examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u58	I believe that through these individual examples I can gain more insight into the scope of this law. Here we go. The Haga Lyceum. This also lends itself to many examples. But let's start by not allowing the education inspection so that it can't even be determined if there's something going on at a school. If I understand correctly, this law changes it so that in principle you can always enter, even when your visit has not been announced. What does that mean in practice? There's an inspector on the sidewalk. He's ringing the doorbell at the gate. Someone says, "I didn't think we were gonna do that." Then we see that it can be enforced through, for example, a burden under control. But what does that mean at that moment itself, the moment that inspector over there with his briefcase hits the bell? If the door is pulled shut, will the police be brought in? I read that not allowing the inspection is a criminal offence. Is it agreed, for example, with the education inspection that it is always reported? Does this, in principle, lead to refusal of inspection access also lead to the turn of the board on the streets? I'm curious about that. One more example. It is actually rather sad that there are so many examples so easily to mention. At the Cheider, children receive separate education from grade 4 through senior year in secondary school. Boys and girls are taking separate classes. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. I am not asking for his personal opinion, I am asking for his opinion. Can you fully teach the rule of law and equality between men and women when you set up your education in this way, when groups are separated from each other in the classroom for religious reasons? Or is that something that would also fall within the scope of this law in the future? The same applies to teaching methods. In the previous period, we asked Parliament questions about, for example, Islamic teaching methods in which it was taught at school that Allah abhors homosexuality, in which it says that boys and girls who look at each other is actually the same as adultery. The first reaction of the education inspector at that time I remember quite vividly. It was: no law has been broken here; we can't do anything here. In the meantime, we have the strengthened law on citizenship and I believe that action can be taken. Does that mean, in practice, that when a dome chooses to use a particular teaching method which is clearly not in line with the legal requirements, not only the teaching material, but also the management that chooses to do so can be dealt with? As a result of what has become known in the media as the 'anti-gay declaration', a majority of the Chamber has decided to support my motion, namely to put an end to that declaration of identity and thereby to a form of selective admission policy. I do not think that the term 'anti-gay' really covers the load; it is a declaration of identity in schools. The Minister himself recently talked about it in the media. Now we recently heard from Pointer the president of the dome of reformed schools saying that all his members are against gay marriage. Let me be clear: he has that right. All these people have that right. Everyone in the Netherlands, however sorry I am, has the right to be against an acquired right. It is not quite clear to me why a high school should have an opinion on something that is not really the order of the day for the vast majority of its students. But what is not right is that children should only be admitted to a school at the time when their parents who have to endorse certain views on marriage, and that the admission of the child depends on whether parents are willing to endorse the concept of the school umbrella on marriage. I think that is what has been happening so far. The first is the question of how my motion is being implemented. How long does it take schools to stop signing such an identity statement? Secondly, the question of when a school board can be dealt with earlier when it remains responsible for a social environment at a school that is unsafe for young gay students, for example. I have just said: it would be naive to think that this law will only lead to education leaders from all kinds of philosophical domes being dealt with. I wish it were one of those parties, I'd say. Then we would have a much smaller problem. We have seen in the past the speculation with community money from MBO institutions. In my opinion, we have recently seen, as they did, the largest roadlock operation of public money from education in many years. I know that a majority of the Chamber, to my very great disappointment, did not want to have a separate debate on this. But I'm lucky. We have a law today that deals with the intervention in the administration. So I can still ask the Minister some questions. The first and most obvious question, of course, is: could this bill have been dealt with earlier? Can the Minister in time point out moments that he says were already wrong at SvPO; we already knew that, but then we simply didn't have the opportunity to intervene, because there was still an appeal or there was another investigation? That's what I'm curious about. Is it true that with this law in hand, the driver in question is not allowed to apply for the funding of a new school for five years? I believe that this is one of the sanctions, as I understand it. How many signals were there at the inspection before the additional investigation, the last one that gave the push, was inserted? Why, for example, should a expelled driver appoint his own successor? That's a wonderful form. What crimes were reported in the end? More in a broader sense. I spoke this week to a parent whose child had been in great trouble because of the lack of a care infrastructure in these schools. That's about what they advertise with: small classes, not overhead. But yes, if no overhead also means that you don't help care students, it's easy to cut back, so to speak. To what extent does the Minister believe that designating a new administration solves all the problems? Of course, there are problems that can be traced back to the driver and his earning model and so on. There are also problems in the concept that you can ask yourself: can you correct them with a new governance? Isn't there something in the structure of the education model? I understand that we should be reluctant to say here, "what you do, can't" and "what you do, can." There are rules for that. But if you find that there are problems in this educational structure, you must be able to intervene. That's exactly why I'm happy with this law. We have seen in the past that it took four to five years for serious reports to eventually lead to the removal of the board or close the door. Four to five years is a whole high school period. This means that there are students who have spent their entire secondary school period dealing with a school that harms them by an incompetent driver or a bad-willed driver. That is why I welcome this law. You should be able to prevent that in principle. Of course, that doesn't mean there's nothing to worry about. You're making a law that basically lasts longer than you are. I said that to the Minister just now, or at least to last longer than your own political career. I wish the Minister a long and prosperous life, of course. The question of whether something is a good law should not depend on who is in box K. I have one more question about that. In this case, let me stick to a theoretical example. Suppose in the future there will be an extremely left-wing education minister who believes that the academic world is mainly spreading right-wing propaganda and thereby neglecting the general formative side of academics. Is academic freedom still guaranteed? Mrs Westerveld has just given extensive consideration to the citizenship requirements. Of course, these do not apply to higher education institutions compared to other forms of school. But let's say that such a new, extreme left-wing education minister is seriously concerned about the far-right climate in higher education institutions, in his opinion. How do we prevent it from being dependent on the political colour of those who are in vocational education, what happens to higher education institutions? I think that's possible, but I want to know how you guarantee that an appointment authority for a minister will not become an instrument of arbitrariness. I'm approaching the end. I have two more points. The first point is the inspection. I have already expressed my concerns once in the previous period. I am very much in favour of the inspection being given more tasks. I am very much in favour of the inspection being given more powers. But I'm also in favour of there being enough inspectors, of these people making it to the end of the year and not seeing them fall down by bushes or run away. After the situation surrounding the Maastricht VMBO, we have seen that the instruments have been extended. That happened with my support, by the way. We have seen with the Law more room for new schools that there was another role for inspection. Can we do that now? Can we do the execution? Will the inspection continue to do so and will the inspection continue in a way that will allow her to do her work in a careful manner? In doing so, inspectors will be given a considerable increase in their powers. I support that, but this is a case of great power comes great responsibility. Can they handle that, or do you need something extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u59	And you will stop by yourself, because Mr Van Meenen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u60	If there's an intimidating appearance coming this way, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u61	That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u62	Ah, the compliments are flying over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u63	Yeah, it's nice, isn't it? It's also completely mutual with regard to that intimidating appearance. The concerns about staffing and the well-being of inspectors are, of course, justified points. But is it not, I ask Mr Kwint, that this law does not actually increase the amount of work done by the inspection, but rather the consequence that can be attached to that work? So that's actually more the Minister's work. So maybe we should worry more about him than about the inspection. In fact, that's what this law does. The reports are there. You mentioned them all, or at least a large number of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u64	Unfortunately, there are others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u65	But it's stuck in the powerlessness of the government to actually do something. I think that is not so much the role of inspection as the role of, in this case, the Minister. How does Mr Kwint look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u66	That could indeed be an effect. I can also imagine that when the Minister decides, or wants to decide, to take tougher measures, it will also be considered whether the inspection can provide some additional information. I'm not sure that's going back and forth. In fact, I could well imagine that from both the position of the minister and the position of the education inspector. The moment there's no problem, it's fine. No hard feelings. But since the concerns already existed in the previous period and since then the politics have not been very reluctant to move additional tasks to the inspection, I think we should just keep an eye on them. We have also argued together in favour of taking up individual complaints in relation to VMBO Maastricht and so on. That's what we both argued for. As soon as the Minister says it's going to be all right, I wish all education inspectors a long and blessed life on their journey from school to school.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you. I think you've arrived at the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u68	At least I've arrived at my last paragraph. It is not for nothing that we impose limits on the remuneration of teachers in this country. There are good reasons for that. Because you're paid out of taxpayers' money and it's for the public good. The same applies, for example, to the Prime Minister, but with a lot less responsibilities. Even when you lead a large educational institution, your responsibilities are enormous, but still less than when you lead the whole country. However, there are quite a number of education leaders, the AOb, who recently reported on themselves even more remarkable than the Prime Minister, who feel that they have an even greater responsibility than the Prime Minister of this country. Or those who just like it with an extra supervisory job to nibble together the third winter sports holiday. It's possible. It'll be one of two, but whatever it is, we don't care. It's time to tighten up the law. If you are a director of an educational institution, that is a responsible job that is very well paid. Then you don't have to catch up. That is why we, together with GroenLinks, propose that whatever you decide to do next to you when you're a teacher, how much supervision you think you can keep next to it and how much time you have left, what you deserve above the WNT, is not legitimate and you just turn that in. Minister, I hope you'll come up with a better answer than the corny one: yes, but otherwise we won't be able to find enough supervisors. That is something we often hear, but if the only people you can find are already extremely busy teachers, then apparently it is not very much work to supervise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you. Mr. Van Meenen, I'm sure you'll be allowed to interrupt if you keep the question short again. And you can, because I've seen you do that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u70	I was gonna say, have I ever let you down? I understand it very well and I think it is also an interesting subject. I too am devastated by it, but is this the law in which this has to be regulated? I sincerely ask myself that. This is about supervision of drivers. This isn't about salaries, because there we have... We have much bigger topics. This is perhaps also about the whole public sector. So that's basically my question: why now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u71	Because they're drivers' salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u72	Yes... Anyway... Yeah, well... Well, you know my views on that. I also have very different solutions, just like others here. Just put them all back in the collective agreement, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u73	That's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u74	It's a top idea. Except it's still not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u75	I know. I wrote that motion myself! It's been accepted, but it still hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u76	There are several people with ideas. Mr. Beertema has also received his motion. I got a motion like that once, but it's still not ready. Still, isn't it a bit of a... Well, I'm looking for a better time and also a... Look, we have a very wide debate here about intervention when there are really serious abuses, insecurity and so on, and then this comes along. Actually, I think it deserves a separate debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u77	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u78	I think it's a serious mess. As Mr Van Meenen rightly points out, we have been talking about this for years. We have adopted motions when there were debates about it, for example when it comes to the income of supervisory councils and when it comes to the income of university administrators. I recall that, in my view, Mrs Westerveld requested a separate debate on this matter some time ago. Because there were so many debates, that was eventually killed again. I mean, tomorrow's always a better time. And yes, it's about abuses and it's about drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u79	Clear. Very briefly, Mr. Van Meenen!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u80	Yes, but this subject is much bigger, because here it is not so much about the remuneration of directors, it is about their extra reward. It is about their secondary functions, while the major debate is, of course, about those incomes themselves, about their position in the overall structure and about whether or not a collective agreement. That's the big debate, and now we're gonna get one thing out of it. We hardly have the opportunity to debate this with each other. Yeah, we can do it here, but I don't know if everyone wants to. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u81	Your objections are clear. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u82	...it's your choice. But I'm just trying to understand why this has to be done now and not in a debate on the remuneration of administrators and supervisors in education. Let's just have that debate for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u83	Then I had that motion ready. But, yes, that debate was removed from the agenda. Moreover, you know as well as I do how long it can take before what a motion asks for is settled. You just referred to the motions on educational directors in the collective agreement. Well, I think the first one that was adopted on this was six or seven years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u84	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u85	It's not in there. Now we have a legal process and we skip the whole discussion about whether or not it is being carried out and how complicated it is, just like that. Then it's just in the law and then we've taken care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u86	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Kwint. We have arrived at the third speaker and we are already an hour further. I'm going to urge you a little bit more quickly to do the interruptions. The fact that I say this does not take time, because Mr Van Baarle is still on his way. Mr Van Baarle, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone wants children and young people to receive education in a safe environment. We agree on that. But that doesn't mean you have to be in favour of this law. I can tell you that there are elements in this law that the group of DENK says are good steps, for example in the area of social security, that we place under the definition of maladministration. It's a good thing we're paying attention to that. But I can also tell you the following. If we look at the law as a whole, see what powers it gives the Minister and look at the departure route on the basis of which this law has been drawn up, then I can only conclude that we are discussing today a panic law which is implemented on the basis of a certain form of panic and incident policy. It is a law that places a lot of powers on the Minister, with insufficient guarantees. This could lead to a system of trial by minister. That's our concern. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the content of this bill, I must say that I have not often experienced a legislative proposal that the Council of State is really critical of. It's really hard criticism. In fact, the Council of State is baffling with many elements, because it is "an unacceptable violation of the freedom of educational institutions." The Council of State states that the need for this law has simply not been demonstrated. Then the previous ruler says: "Well, that's good criticism. At least, I'm taking some of those things from the Council of State and I'm adjusting the bill." But we have a new minister, who then wipes out all these changes. In fact, he is putting it through, against the advice of his own officials. And more than that, he wanted to go even further than that. This Minister wanted to go even further than that, according to the decision paper accompanying this bill. The officials also indicated: this minister is making a number of changes, but you really have to ask the Council of State for advice. Why isn't that done? I sincerely ask the Minister what this way of working is, this tightening-up, I am referring to the reversal of the Council of State's rightful remark, in some kind of panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u88	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'm on my way. "Violence": that's an interesting picture. I've been in the Chamber for ten years now. I've been there for 10 years, we've been going from incident to incident every time. In a number of these incidents, I should have asked Mr Van Baarle's predecessors, and perhaps also Mr Van Baarle's sometimes, to intervene, because 'it could no longer be done with the Maastricht VMBO', to mention just one thing. Isn't the idea of this law right that we are putting an end to this wailing and that we simply have a toolbox that intervenes where necessary? Let me rephrase. Can Mr Van Baarle mention one of those wailing incidents that he says: 'If there could have been intervention... we really shouldn't have wanted that with each other'?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u89	The law does come from panic. This has to do with the fact that this legislative proposal in its original form is based on two incidents. There were two incidents which led the government to use a whole administrative toolbox to intervene in school boards. What does the Council of State, an institution, say that we should take things a little more seriously in this house now and then? The Council of State says: "Yes, you do want to be able to implement those measures to intervene in school boards, but you have never carried out a thorough evaluation of the sanctioning system we have with each other. So, on the basis of two incidents, you are rigging a whole range of instruments to intervene, without asking each other the question: can we perhaps better apply the instruments we now have?" That was also a conclusion. In one of the two events mentioned as the reason for this bill, the conclusion was very clear: the current instruments we have should have been applied better. So I can only conclude that the usefulness and necessity of this bill have not been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u90	It would be interesting if Mr Van Baarle could take these two reasons into account for the rest of the Netherlands. That makes it extra interesting, I guess. Isn't it true that in all these situations... or "all those"? Luckily, there aren't that many. Let's just say those five, six situations we've had over the past few years, about eight years. Didn't it turn out over and over that the instruments didn't work? Then perhaps the Council of State could say that the instruments could have been better used, but at least the judge did not find them, and that is an interesting institution. That was the reason to say: let's see if we can actually give hands and feet through the law to just guarantee safety in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u91	To catch up on the latter, guaranteeing safety in schools. I think I started my contribution by saying: there are steps, steps, in this law that we could say are good steps. Among other things, bringing social security under the definition of "maladministration." Then you add that element and give it a basis for intervention within the existing framework. Here's to the last element. Mr Van Meenen said in his interruption: yes, perhaps we should say a little more about the case, because then it becomes extra interesting. That's exactly what I want to watch out for. And not just me. I have pointed out, recently during debates here in the Chamber, but also the Council of State points out that we also have a hand here to say to the government, on the basis of political pressure, quite often on the basis of justified media talk: take action, take action, take action. In doing so, we sometimes ignore the robustness of the underlying requirements. Finally, let me say that the fact that the current instruments have not been applied sufficiently... It is not just Mr Van Baarle who puts that as a member of this layman's committee. That is, for example, the Audit Service of the Empire. Not only the Council of State, but also the Audit Service has concluded that the current sanction instruments have not been applied sufficiently. I do not think it is strange that we say, when we deal with each other a law: first, see if you can better apply the current instruments before you put a whole administrative circus of measures to a minister who he can almost apply with a pin stroke. We're gonna need some due diligence for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u92	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen, you know as chairman of a certain committee where I may occasionally join: interruptions please be brief. Also Mr. Van Baarle: shorter answers are often better answers. They are also easier to follow and enable us to go home at a reasonable moment. Mr. Van Meenen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u93	Let's get this straight. The first reason to ever speak about this law came from the texts of the rector of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, which was a university of applied sciences. I don't have the lyrics anymore, but they came down to "throwing gays but of high-rise condominiums," et cetera, et cetera. At the time, the government was powerless to do so. Then there were other examples: students who are forced out of the closet, a school that no longer allows the inspection, a school that makes a drama of the central exam. In which situation does Mr Van Baarle think that action should not have been taken by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u94	That's exactly my point. I think that we are in this house... Mr Van Meenen gives a number of examples of which I, as a politician, say: that is not possible. This is without prejudice to the fact that we must be careful to decide here in the House of Representatives that there is a need for intervention. We have due diligence in this regard. We've rigged a system for that. Not only Mr Van Baarle, but also the Council of State concludes that under media pressure, under political pressure, the Council of State states very clearly in its opinion that there is a risk that instruments will be used too lightly. It warns that we should therefore not take these steps lightly with this bill. That's my whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u95	Thank you. Mr. Beertema is going to show you how to briefly ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u96	I'd still like to join Mr. Van Meenen's interruption. And I also want to distance myself from the suggestion that we have been dealing here with a little media pressure and a little political urge to score. I've been in the Chamber since 2010, Mr. Van Meenen since 2012. In all these years we have seen a succession of profound incidents. It was always about incidents, but they were incidents that were very deep and caused social unrest. In those incidents, the government and the House of Representatives were quite rightly looked at. They asked, "What are you doing? Why do you not intervene?" That has been extremely frustrating. I quote one sentence from the explanatory memorandum. "It happens that the competent authority is not able or willing to end infringements." A sentence like that already closes all the shutters on me. But that's what the situation has been. That's why I don't think this law is inappropriate at all. Are there any other ways? It has all been tried out and it has been extremely frustrating. Mr Van Baarle would like to give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u97	Thank you for your statement. Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u98	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u99	You can respond. But if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u100	Perhaps I should point out to Mr Beertema, an old-timer in this house, that we are asking a pointy question in the event of an interruption. That's gonna happen to me, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u101	I think Mr. Beertema heard. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u102	Can Mr. Van Baarle respond to this for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u103	Ha. I never thought Mr Bertema would ask this question! I can start repeating myself. Mr Beertema is right to point out that there have been examples where we all found and felt together: something is going on here. I'm not saying we shouldn't do anything. That's not my point at all. My point is that we should first look at the current system. How can we improve that? We should at least thoroughly evaluate the current system before we introduce a whole law with new powers. I think those are due diligence requirements that you have to meet before you place these powers with a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u104	Clear, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u105	That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u106	Yes. First Mrs Paul asks a question and then Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u107	When we talk about cases and stuff, it all sounds very abstract. In the end, it's about kids...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u108	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u109	...who may be in danger, who are not well-off and who are experiencing all kinds of wretched situations. We do not want that, and that is what Mr Van Baarle started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr Van Baarle himself introduced panic and incident politics into this debate. But if I look very critically at what is now going on, it is quite clear to me that the Minister does not have any kind of power. With this law, the Minister cannot, on any day, open up the newspaper and think: well, here's what's going on and there's what's going on, and I'm going to take action. No, this intervention is based on a thorough report by the Education Inspectorate, an independent and expert institute. On the basis of that report, the Minister may, if necessary, give an urgent indication if the situation so requires. So does Mr Van Baarle not agree with me that there is no panic or incident policy at all, but that there is a solid basis? On the basis of this justification, the Minister is able to intervene in all those cases where we have so far found that this was not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u112	Let's just cut something real clear. The Minister is doing incident policy with his basic reason for this bill. Two incidents were cited. They were the arguments for this bill. Then we should read in the decision notes: yes, we should add a few more incidents to that. They will then be dragged with their hairs to make sure that these administrative instruments are not needed: yes, it is in the decision notes, so look at them. So the wimp has to do with the incidents underlying this bill. The second element in Mrs Paul's question concerns that preliminary designation. We have reservations about this. We have reservations about this, because the safeguards that are in place with regard to that provisional designation are inadequate. They have become even worse because the Minister has demolished the word "serious" and inserted the word "reasonable." "A reasonable presumption" is now sufficient for the Minister to intervene. It is true that this must be done on the basis of an inspection report, but still: a "reasonable presumption" is sufficient to intervene. That's an even lighter test than that of the clue. The facts and circumstances on which this provisional designation is based are not even specified. The measures that can be linked to them are not even described in detail. Those are all reasons to say: this is quite a big step. There are too few safeguards and the consequences cannot be clearly seen. That's not what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u113	Very briefly. A number of things have been said that the Minister himself has the right to comment on. In the relatively short time I have been in the Chamber, I have experienced enough cases where the instruments were lacking. It is indigestible that we have to watch here patiently how children, under the influence of bad governance, are unsafe and receive poor education. I therefore call for the opportunity to intervene, where necessary, to be taken very gratefully. We shouldn't be watching like some kind of "lame ducks."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u114	A brief response from Mr. Van Baarle. He has a tendency to repeat points in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u115	I would like to say to Mrs Paul that the DENK Group supports this objective. We don't have a disagreement about the purpose. However, we do have a disagreement on the way to the goal. That's what we're talking about today: the bill. So let us be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u116	That is what my question is about. It was a few times about incident politics. If there is one example of how to make incidents political in a useful way, it is this law. The Islamic university was mentioned as an example. This was the case in 2013 or 2014. Since then, a very sad example has come along. I mentioned it in my own term. I have not even mentioned VMBO Maastricht. Those examples are the subject of motions for resolutions all the time. It says: we want you to do this. The Minister says that I have no powers to do so. That is what his predecessors have said. Eventually, that trajectory ends in a bill. That makes sense, doesn't it? You wipe multiple incidents on a pile and ask yourself: how can we deal with this in a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u117	Mr. Van Baarle, is this logical?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u118	No, but I think that answer does not surprise Mr Kwint. This bill is based on two incidents. The government literally wrote that down in the first piece. Then there are incidents that we can read exactly in the decision note to make it look like there are more incidents. That's true. Second. It is concluded that the current instruments we have, such as inspection supervision, should have been better used in a number of examples. I've said that before. We believe that before we decide to delegate these powers to the Minister, we should first thoroughly evaluate the current system. That was promised by the government, but it never happened. In my opinion, you first evaluate a system and then decide whether or not to introduce a law that will fundamentally change the system. From that point of view, we do not consider it prudent to move on to this cannonade to measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u119	We'll come back and talk about that decision paper. I agree with Mr Van Baarle that some officials had already started following two incidents and that, already writing, what has been added. At the time of two accidents at a dangerous intersection, three more accidents may occur in the preparation of a new roundabout. I think that only underlines the need for that roundabout. I must say that in the meantime I am so lost in my own metaphor, that I seriously wonder what I really wanted to present to Mr van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u120	The metaphor is indeed beautiful, but what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u121	After such a beautiful metaphor, it's a lousy question. That is the point of the evaluation. Haven't you already carried out that evaluation in practice? Of course, there have been cases where the instruments could have been used better. But we have seen in the urgent directions that acute, problematic situations in schools could not be addressed, as new appeals were constantly being introduced. As a result, it took years for action to be effective. Everyone has the right to appeal. Don't get me wrong, but that would help with a preliminary lead, wouldn't it? Here's what I'm thinking. We think there's a problem. If it turns out we're right, the withdrawal of a driver could be a measure to protect students. If it turns out we're wrong, we say "sorry," we send a flower and pay the damages. Surely that would be a concrete measure to improve the safety of pupils?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u122	We also want to improve that safety with each other. That is why I have also said on behalf of the DENK Group that we can certainly understand that the duty of care for social security is included in the definition of'maladministration'. It seems obvious that you can take steps. Mr Kwint is right to point out that there have certainly been cases where the current instruments should have been applied much better. If it is possible to apply the current instruments better, I think it really goes too far to give this Minister the opportunity to give an urgent message on the basis of a very light burden of proof, as the Council of State says. I think this is a very far-reaching step, from a sound perspective and the relationship between government and the freedom of educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u123	Perhaps now you have a good question and a less beautiful metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u124	I've had a chance to think about it, Mr. Chairman. Maybe we think differently about the freedom of education. But I admit that Mr Van Baarle points out that the current instruments could have been better used in a number of cases. Does he agree with us that in recent years we have also seen examples of schools where the current instruments did not work?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u125	That is precisely the question I am unable to answer properly, because we have not had that thorough evaluation of the system. We could have answered that question if the promised evaluation had come and if we had had had a fundamental discussion about the situation in which the system was adequate, or not, and whether the current system could have been applied better. If we had had that conversation and the conclusion was "yes, it is obvious that the current system is inadequate," we would have shook hands with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u126	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An interrupting debate like that will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u128	You've already gone through your lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u129	Well, I'm just gonna recite these. I'm standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u130	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr. Chairman. Of course, DENK, because of the heaviness that the minister is showing, I started to object strongly to this bill. It is clear to us that this bill is incident policy. This is evident from the fact that the government could initially only mention two cases on the basis of which that law had to be introduced. We see in the decision note that incidents later had to be dragged into the hair to get it more substance, but it was originally only two incidents. These are two cases, of which the government itself states in its reply that they have finally been resolved within the current system. I'd like a reflection on that. If they're solved within the current system according to the government, why do you need this law? Yet this law is passed, because although they have been resolved within the current system, you cannot conclude that the current system is good. Could the Minister explain that sentence? It is solved within the current system, but the current system is not good. I thought that was a weird line. Mr. Chairman. What we regret about the incident policy underlying this bill is that there is one incident being staged, and you know what it is about: the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, which we believe has also shown a bias and administrative action by the government that is not careful and which shows precisely the risk that we should not deal lightly with when giving this kind of administrative action to the minister. That was based on an AIVD report that turned out to be false. It was time and again a decision of the government that was flagged back by the judge, also on the basis of political pressure from the Chamber, where MPs literally said: close that business, put those children on the street. There has been administrative action on the basis of a false report and the government has been referred back again and again by the judge. Does this not show that there is a form of bias that poses an enormous risk to the measures that the Minister wants to take with this bill? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's criticism of this bill is harsh. The Council states that the bill constitutes an unacceptable breach of the freedom of education and is contrary to the principle of legality and does not consider the usefulness, necessity and proportionality of the bill to be demonstrated. The Council even advises that this bill be waived until the extension of these instruments has been examined and is not motivated. It is not often that the Council of State has so ruthlessly defeated a bill. That's a big deal. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. As far as DENK is concerned, on the basis of this conclusion, there is actually only one course of action: either you adapt the bill very well to do justice to the proposal of the Council of State, or you swallow it. But this minister didn't do that. Mr. Chairman. Like the DENK Group, the Council of State concludes that more and more enforcement powers are being proposed on the basis of incidents. According to DENK, this is only justified if incidents clearly expose deficiencies in the system. We are not yet ready to say that there is now evidence of this. This can be seen in a number of cases. The Council of State is right to point out that there have been few situations in the last ten years that called for a designation. In general, sanctions are hardly ever imposed. So why introduce a law when there have hardly ever been any examples that justify that law in recent times? The government says that it is not unthinkable that these things occur in the future. Yes, Mr President, it is not unthinkable that I am going to stumble on the sidewalk, but that does not mean that we have to introduce the obligation to wear a helmet on the sidewalk. So why come up with a law based on conceivable possibilities rather than on actual reality? Mr. Chairman. Back to those two cases. Did they give any evidence of inadequate instruments? We are not convinced of this either, because the Rijk Audit Service and the Council of State indicate that sub-optimal monitoring by the inspection, but also wider application of the current instruments, could have been helpful. Is the current instruments therefore insufficient? No. You just can't prove that clip-and-ready. It's not being applied properly. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have already pointed out in the debate on the interruptions that the system has never been thoroughly evaluated, but the government has promised it. Why do we no longer have time to carry out evaluations before we lay down very great powers with this minister? Has the government considered alternatives at all before it has adopted this bill? I am going through my text a little faster because I have already exchanged so much in the debate on the interruption. Let's see. Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to give this Minister a further reflection on the fact that, as a new govern ment, he has taken the decision to strengthen this bill on a number of very fundamental elements, in line with the advice of the Council of State. In the decision note we can read that officials indicate: do not do that. I think that was even literally the advice of the own ministry when it was about the maladministration about the change from'serious' to'reasonable'. If that was unnecessary, why is it being done? Mr. Chairman. On the change whereby the word "structural" is deleted from the legislative proposal, the Ministry writes in the decision note: then a new opinion from the Council of State is desirable. Why did the Minister ignore that? If not, I'd like to hear it from him, but it's the impression I get from the decision note. Finally, Mr President. One thing that struck me is that this bill does not contain an evaluation clause. Actually, I think that's a weird one. That is why I have tabled an amendment to this bill. But I've noticed it before. And certainly with this bill, with which we are making a change in the system and laying down some additional powers for this minister, is it quite careful to include an evaluation clause in such a bill at all? So why isn't that done, is my first question. And is the Minister prepared to look at our amendment? For we are not in favour of the legislative proposal, but if it is adopted, let us at least give a thorough assessment of its consequences. Mr. Chairman. So it's obvious to DENK. We should have done a thorough evaluation of the current system first. Didn't happen. It is therefore also entirely premature to say at this time that we should put these administrative measures down to the Minister, whereby, on the basis of an inspection report with a pin mark, he can integrate himself into school boards. Mr President, thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Van Baarle, for your contribution. I would now like to give the floor to Mr De Hoop on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party believes that education should be cheerful, pleasant and safe for every child. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen that this is not the case in every school in our country, and that is worrying. Several poignant incidents have occurred. Some of them have already been mentioned: the Haga Lyceum; schools for personal education; the Gomarus. For the Labour Party, quality of education and social security is a continuing concern. And I justly believe that the Minister should intervene as soon as school education is seriously inadequate. Freedom of education does not go so far as to allow schools to offer poor education. Educational participants are entitled to good education, in a safe learning environment. Therefore, this continuing concern of the government for education is rightly mentioned in our Constitution. In 2010, the concern of the government was also further explained by a law regulating the funding rules and minimum learning outcomes. So we don't have to have a discussion about the government's concern for good education. This legislative proposal extends the Ministry's monitoring and enforcement tools and the education inspection at schools and educational institutions that commit violations. This includes maladministration, acute crisis situations and violation of the duty of care for social security and the mandate of citizenship. At present, the Minister has not sufficiently convinced the Labour Party of the need for all the different instruments mentioned in the legislative proposal. The Minister can, of course, already do a great deal, but ministers have not always used these powers. To what extent can the Minister take decisive action in situations where this might be necessary? And could the Minister use these instruments to prevent the previous poignant situations, as Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld have already mentioned? In the letter of amendment of 30 May last, the Minister substantially amended his legislative proposal. This is a change which does not meet the concerns that exist, precisely by extending the instruments even further. And the governing bodies in the foundational education even call it a new bill. These organisations therefore request a new opinion from the Council of State. How did the Minister look at that? How's he looking at that request? And is he willing to do that after all? Mr. Chairman. As a result of these letters of amendment, my group also expressly asked at the procedural meeting to schedule a written consultation. I really regret that we have not done so, because this is a significant change to the law, regardless of whether you are for or against it, and so I think you should look very carefully at it. I think it would have been good to plan and do a written consultation on this issue, so that we would have been better prepared here too. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case, and we will now have to deal with this state of affairs without having had the opportunity to discuss it in writing. Unfortunately, this request from the SGP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party was not accepted at the time. And about those changes in the first note: they go quite far in some ways. Not only if there is maladministration in the event of serious negligence, but also in the case of prolonged, not necessarily serious negligence. The violation of the duty of care for security and the mandate of citizenship need no longer be structural. And a suspicion of maladministration does not have to be a serious suspicion; a reasonable presumption is sufficient to lead to an urgent indication. That makes me feel a little uncomfortable here anyway. I am one of those MPs who has said very often that the Minister should have acted more firmly. I still support the fact that I have said this every time, because I have seen all these distressing situations. But now we do come up with a bill that I have a lot of doubts about. This means that I have some serious doubts as to whether I can support this proposal in this form, although I would very much like to give the Minister an instrumental instrument. I find that difficult. That is what I am opening up here in the debate. I will go into this further in my term. But I see that Mr Van Meenen is already ready for an interruption and I can never wait for that, so I am happy to offer him that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u134	Yes, Mr. Van Meenen. The question first, please. I would ask you to do so without any detailed explanation. Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u135	I actually want to start with an answer, and that's no. That is the answer to Mr De Hoop's question. Could the Minister have done the same with the current instruments? In fact, it is mainly about his predecessors, who have been most affected by these situations. The simple answer is no. Otherwise, it would have worked. The Chamber wanted it, in total majority, including the Labour Party, but it didn't happen. Everything has been tried: the corridor to the judge, et cetera et cetera. What I do not understand, and that is my question, is who the Labour Party is actually listening to. It strikes me very much that letters from administrative organizations are here determining the position of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u137	That's not how I know the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u138	I heard the question: who is the Labour Party listening to? I got the impression that you were going to give the answer yourself, but let us listen to what Mr De Hoop thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u139	I get an impression, but maybe it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u140	I say this in the context of what I said, Mr Van Meenen, that we would put the question briefly. You first started by replying on behalf of the Minister. Let us see what Mr De Hoop says about that. Who does the Labour Party listen to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u141	I find this a bit annoying for the following reason. I believe that Mr Van Meenen knows me well and I am one of those who are very often at the forefront of this debate to deal with all the distressing situations that have occurred in many children. I'm worried about that. I have also tabled an own-initiative proposal for Article 23 for a reason. I think that says enough about how I feel about a lot of situations in schools and about the freedom of education that too often leads to annoying and poignant situations that we absolutely should not want. But I can see that there really is criticism. And those aren't just driving. I think Mr Van Meenen will be back shortly when I go to my amendment on scientific education, because the UNL has indeed said something about it. But I'm not just saying that because I read something about driving. I say this also because academic freedom is something other than just freedom of education. I say that I have doubts about this and that I am concerned about this bill. So I'm just listening to drivers? Definitely not. I've never had a debate like this before. My party has never entered into a debate like this either. I have concerns. I believe that this process should have been carried through more carefully. The Court also played a role in this by not planning such written consultations, for example. That last letter of amendment has led me to be less enthusiastic than I was before. Those are things I am raising today, and I think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u142	That's a clear answer. I am glad that it is and that we are not just listening to these organisations. After all, it is almost a matter of course that they do not want intervention, I would almost say. But let's talk about the change. I would say: let us be glad that this is about incidents and that there is not so much structural error in Dutch education that this is happening all the time. I can still count the incidents of the last ten years almost on one hand, but they are incidents in which at least intervention should have taken place. But incidents do not always have a structural character. The situation at the Maastricht VMBO was not structural. It may have been a bit like this the year before, but not after that. In the case of almost all of these incidents, they were fortunately not structural. By the way, the question is: when is something structural? If you've been forcing kids out of the closet for ten years, is it structural? But if you do it for one year, it's not structural, so you can't intervene? So the direction Mr De Hoop is going is very risky, I think. Because if you were to reason like that, you wouldn't have been able to intervene under any circumstances. None of the cases discussed here were structural. Does Mr De Hoop agree with me that we should be pleased that they are incidents, but that it is now time to intervene directly on these incidents, in the light of the safety of young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u143	I mentioned all the points in the letter of amendment. It is not that I find every point added to the letter of amendment terrible, so to speak. I endorse Mr Van Meenen's point about the incidents. But to arrive at an urgent indication on reasonable suspicion is quite a lot. I think that's a big deal. So that's what I'm putting here. That's quite a broad interpretation. It's a solid tool we're giving the minister. I think that we should have a good debate on this, so that is one of the points I would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u144	Mr. Van Meenen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u145	It may not be a question, but I agree with Mr De Hoop. I no longer need a written round, so I said: let's just have the debate here and let's hear the Minister's response. That's my only reason. I do not think it can be explained when we finally say: I am not in favour of this law, because we have not had any additional written rounds. The point is that the answers to these relevant questions will come tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u146	That's right. All I'm saying is that the trial could have been more careful by such a fundamental law as far as I am concerned. That's what I said. I don't need to repeat that again. To some extent, Mr Van Meenen has endorsed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u148	I saw that the SGP would prefer to demolish all these changes per amendment. I would not like to go that far, but I am already curious about Mr Bishop's 25-minute speaking time. I'm a little worried about what's going on here. The Minister can intervene fairly quickly, and perhaps by means of the letter of amendment even faster. If the Minister does not do so once, can it not work properly as some sort of identification for other situations where things are not going well? Can't that cause a certain paradox that we don't want? I'll put that question to the Minister. Does he recognize that risk? How would he want to prevent that? Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party's group attaches importance to the role of the municipality as guardian of public education. In a way, the bill affects the role of municipalities. The Minister shall mention only the role of the municipal council in the appointment and reappointment of the members of the supervisory board in public education. Can the Minister clarify what will be the role of the municipality in relation to the role of the central government, especially when both are not fully aligned? Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, there is no justification for education supervisors who earn more than the Prime Minister. The SP has tabled an amendment that also aims to bind education supervisors to the Top Income Standards Act. I think that is a sensible amendment, which, of course, can count on our support. I therefore hope that the Minister will accept this. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to my amendments and the concern that prevails there. Speaking of boards, Mr. Van Meenen: the UNL advocates an exception in the bill for universities. I can imagine something about that. After all, the Minister can suspend and dismiss members of the Supervisory Board. In doing so, he has an influence on the composition of the board. We have therefore tabled two amendments to exclude scientific education from this. How does the Minister view our amendments and the plea? Does he want to respond to that? If not, why not? Can he, in particular, reflect the importance of academic freedom, which may also mean that universities conduct critical research that sheds a negative light on public policy? Mr. Chairman. I think it is a difficult debate because I believe that freedom of education should not lead to insecurity and poor quality of education. I would like us to take action on this at all times. But I still have some doubts about this bill, which I do expect the Minister to give me serious answers to. I do not want to end up in the situation that I would really like to give these enforcement instruments to the Minister, that I will not get enough back from the Minister in the answer, that I may feel compelled to vote against the bill and that we will soon have a situation in which it is said: Mr De Hoop of the Labour Party, you voted against the bill that could have prevented this. That makes this trade-off very difficult for me. I'll put that here again. I hope the Minister will answer my questions. I am still very curious about Mr Van Meenen's interruption. Before I say that, I agree with the importance that Mr Van Baarle mentioned in order to get the evaluation fairly quickly after this law, if that happens, is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u149	I would like to explain the amendment, because I simply cannot imagine a situation in which this can happen. 'Cause what does it say? "Our Minister cannot give an urgent indication in situations where the suspicion of maladministration also relates to the subject matter of scientific research to be carried out or its results." So there's a suspicion of maladministration, financial or security, and then there's some research in the university that might touch that. You can't find any more maladministration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u150	Let's ask the author what he meant by that. Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u151	The fundamental conversation that I think we should have here is that academic freedom is really something other than just freedom of education. Research can also really relate to public policy. I think the Minister already has enough resources to act. I find it disproportionate to include scientific education in this, because I believe that there are already enough resources for the Minister to add scientific research to this. My amendment seeks to explicitly exclude that scientific education, because I think that is too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u152	I agree with you, so we are in complete agreement on the explanatory statement of the amendment. But there's nothing about that in the clue. But in the actual amendment of the text, in other words, in the law, it is literally stated that our Minister does not give an urgent indication in situations where the suspicion of maladministration also relates to the subject matter of scientific research to be carried out or its results. What am I supposed to do with that? There's a suspicion of maladministration within a university. This could be about employee safety, for example. That could be about financial maladministration. It could be about harassment and so on. It all happens. We can read that every day, fortunately, not every day. So what is this investigation about that the Minister should sit on his hands and say: well, unfortunately, I must let this maladministration go away, because there is also scientific research in this direction? I don't quite understand. Perhaps it is good to look again at the text of the amendment, because I can live with the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u153	I'm just thinking. I think it comes from that reasonable suspicion. If you apply that to that academic freedom, it's very far-reaching. If Mr Van Meenen is okay with it, I would like to go into this question a little more extensively in the second term, because he is quite specific and I cannot give the exact answer at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u154	That's a good idea. I see that Mr Van Meenen has also approved it. Proceed with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u155	Mr President, I would like to close my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u156	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. De Hoop. Then Mr Bishop. With me, there was an erroneous cube. I thought 2.5 minutes is short. But we are going to listen to Mr Bishop for 25 minutes. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u157	Yes, Mr President, I can imagine that you looked craving for a real comma in between, but that is really not the case. Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today has the title 'enlargement administrative tools education'. That sounds nice, but it's kind of misleading. This is not a question of extending the instruments of directors, but of almost unlimited possibilities for the Minister to sideline the administration if there is a problem. This role for the Minister seems to be without precedent in public and semi-public sectors. The comment in the coalition agreement that there is no reason to amend Article 23 of the Constitution is thus in a special light. Mr. Chairman. My input carries the character of a diptych. First of all, I will deal with the procedural procedure of this bill. I'll make you a deal. I will then discuss, if necessary, the reasons for this proposal, alternatives and the content of the legislative proposal. First of all, the procedural procedure. Many reports have been published in recent years about abuses and affairs in the government. In the government. On this basis, the House of Representatives has often and extensively discussed its own functioning. One thing was clear: we're going to do it differently, really different. We're gonna work more carefully. We're going to spend more time on good legislation. We want to be aware of the feasibility and consequences of legislative proposals. In doing so, as a Chamber, we could make much more independent use of external expertise to counter the government. And legal protection also had to be given a lot of attention, because it was too often included. There would be a fresh wind, a new political culture. It would therefore be less a matter of flat political majorities and more a matter of working together on good content. With this wind in the sails, on 2 June, only 14 days ago, I got into the procedural meeting most of the time. I could hardly imagine that there could be any objection to an additional written round and a round table with experts to look at this bill again. That is exactly the line that colleagues from the PvdA, the SP and GroenLinks have also put forward. It turned out to be a little too optimistic. Both requests I made were swept off the table with haste. Although I would like, where possible, to find a connection with the ideas of D66, as far as it merges with mine or rhymes with mine, I found the remark from the side of D66 very revealing. I quote: 'We can talk for a long time, but the majority want this, and we really are not going to change the proposal; so let's wash this pig quickly'. It wasn't a closed meeting, so I'm free to quote from it. It touched me. That's not how you treat each other. This is power thinking that we said goodbye to. At least that suggestion has been woken up in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u158	Of course, I can never say that we are not going to amend the proposal. All I have said is that a majority in the procedural meeting did not opt for an additional written round. That brings us together here. All questions can be asked here. Everything can be changed here. But as the coalition agreement also states, there is an urgent need to intervene. We shall see what Mr Bishop's view of this bill is. I have a hunch about it. But we also know that procedures in this house can be used to slow down this urgency. That's what I suspected. I don't want to. I want us to move on. We shall be talking about every proposed change here. I'm not at all certain that this law is coming through this Chamber. I can't determine that on my own at all. I'm attached to it because I'm gonna report it anyway. This was only about the question of whether there would be an additional written round. I didn't need that, nor did a majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u159	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u160	I am still holding up the quote I just gave was made in that procedural meeting. It was indeed the majority in the procedural meeting, but that meant: we do not need it, we move forward quickly. Now, apparently, speed is more than careful. Mr President, I see the clock running, but this is an answer to an interruption. The suspicion that I am using this to frustrate the process is far from my point of view. Especially with a lot of misery in my mind that we have been confronted with in recent years and in which the Chamber has occasionally played a dubious role, I say: let us please ensure careful legislation. There is reason to do so, as I will explain later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u161	Thank you. When you said the word "wretched," Mr. Van Meenen stood up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u162	When Mr Bishop talked about all the "wretched" we have seen in recent years, I thought for a moment that he was talking about the students, students and teachers who were in unsafe situations. But he wasn't talking about that at all. He talked about "the misery" with careless legislation. We share that, but I do not see why this treatment would be less careful than a written round on all the questions that can be asked here. But the real misery, that of the lack of this legislation, has been experienced by many pupils and other people in education in recent years. It's about time we put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u163	I note that this statement, about'very many' students and'very many' teachers, is contrary to Mr Van Meenen's statement just now. He said that the incidents of the last few years are about counting on the fingers of one hand. I don't want to trivialize those incidents. I certainly do not want to belittle the personal experience of certain events. That's not the point. The Court considers me to be on its side with regard to the subject that should simply be looked at in the light of legislation and regulations. Let's just do that carefully. There is no reason to pretend that everything is going wrong every week because we do not have the right legislation. There is also more to be said about existing legislation. Mr. Chairman. I would have been able to understand this reaction, and I shall return to the procedural meeting on 2 June if there were a completely chewed-up proposal which could not add any new point of view. But this bill is the textbook example of the contrary. Mr De Hoop has also made an explicit reference to the history of this bill. I would add that the letter of amendment had only been submitted a week before and contained a series of fundamental changes. That is usually a good reason for an additional round of written questions. So it's been rejected. Moreover, this was also the expectation of the officials. They assumed that a new opinion from the Council of State was very likely. Yes, you will need that if you're going to amend a bill so radically during the trial. A second report by the House of Representatives and a further examination of this bill at the end of 2022 were likely. I'm really wondering what fever caught D66 not wanting any of this. At the start of this debate, the SGP lacks basic information needed to properly assess the legislative proposal. That is information that this debate cannot foresee and which we have not been able to find out for ourselves because of the high speed of agendas. For example, the government states that its proposal would be very much in line with what the Education Council wrote in its opinion on Article 23. However, that story contains a number of assumptions about which we have not yet heard the Education Council. For the moment, we hear from the Education Council in particular indications that this bill would be superfluous. Then why isn't there the possibility of "that's the most obvious option "that's to ask the Education Council explicitly to give an opinion on this bill and to sit down with experts to discuss the consequences and the additional measures? There are really many areas open: the position of public education, the specific administrative context of higher education, the examination committees, the role of civil proceedings in the event of dismissal, etc. Those questions cannot be answered now. That's not what I want from the Minister. But you need more information to make this a balanced bill. Mr. Chairman. What does the government and the coalition do with the fact that all sector organisations and all profile organisations are also opposed to this bill? This is from kindergarten to university and from public education to special education. Are we gonna be shrugged? Are we ignoring it? Are we looking the other way? We're not gonna do anything with it? Or does it mean anything to us? Exceptionally, I would also like to say a word to colleagues from the coalition groups. The government writes that the additional tightening of the bill is supported by the coalition agreement. That is a rather special vision, because the bill that was known at the time of the presentation of the coalition agreement did not contain these tightenings at all. How can it be assumed that the far-reaching extension of this bill is in line with the coalition agreement? I leave this question to the friends of the coalition groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u164	It sounds a little like entrapment, Mr. Bishop. A little bit! Mr. Van Meenen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u165	I consider myself to be Mr Bishop's greatest friend in the coalition and I shall therefore go. As Mr Bishop can see, there is still a little more in the coalition agreement than just this law. There are all kinds of measures that we want to take, precisely to prevent us from doing something about Article 23, which we both appreciate and respect. The fact that Mr Bishop now wants to make a story as if Article 23 is being seriously affected here or is being affected at all is not correct. That is exactly what we want to avoid with this! We just want to say in lower legislation: this and we will not allow it. The situations we have experienced in recent times mean that we need instruments to intervene where necessary. And I think we don't even disagree on most things. That's what it says here, and that's more than just the law's administrative tools. I am, of course, happy to have another word with the Minister on these changes. We will, but let's not pretend it's a dramatic change now. Apparently, it was the government's expectation that the law, as it lays, could not meet all the other requirements, which are also contained in the government agreement, regarding the safety of teachers and pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u166	Mr President, a response to that. In itself, I can follow that line of thinking, namely that you regulate in lower laws and regulations things that do not necessarily need to be regulated in higher legislation. That is a fine constitutional and constitutional principle. Only, where there is a limp, is that there was a bill that had been commented upon and a response from the Council of State. After that, the bill was amended and then, after accepting the coalition agreement, all those points that the Council of State criticised were re-incorporated into the bill. That should just make us think about it in the legislative process: boys, are we doing something good here? Have we chosen a balanced approach with this? Mr. Chairman. All in all, I would like to make a procedural proposal first. It is a bit unusual to do so here in the plenary, but I would like to make that proposal before we continue the substantive discussion on this proposal. As a SGP, we propose that the Education Council be asked for a specific legislative opinion on the content of the letter of amendment and the government's considerations. Then we do not have to accept the assumption that the Education Council should be almost happy with the letter of amendment, whereas for the time being the opposite seems to be the case. Perhaps then we can at the same time give the Council of State the opportunity to express its opinion. Mr President, that was the procedural side of the matter. In any case, I would like to have a reaction to this procedural proposal. Then there is the second part of my diptych: the reason, the alternatives and the content of the proposal. Over the years, the practice of the educational board has shown a number of situations with serious problems, situations which deserve serious attention. In the explanatory memorandum, the government gathers all kinds of different cases to justify the need. These are special situations of new schools whose learning outcomes could not yet be assessed. There was also a situation where the duty of care for safety at school was not yet in force. There was a situation that's been dragged around for a long time by government bumps. There are situations that affect aspects of the system, such as problems with the provision of diplomas in Limburg. The solution to these situations is, according to the government, to reduce the threshold of the power of designation across the board. This is a uniform solution to a variety of problems. Surely that raises the question: why not a much more proportionate and careful route? Why not be satisfied with specific clarifications, such as the situation of new schools and invalid diplomas? Mr. Chairman. The government finds it problematic that procedures take too long. The SGP shares that view. We'd like to think about that. If this is an important objection, it would be obvious to first look at the possibilities of shortening time limits across the whole range. This would be a logical measure which could be applied generically. The government first draws on additional powers and only then will it investigate further the situation with regard to these deadlines. That does not seem to us to be a logical and careful order. Moreover, the government finds it difficult that thorough investigation takes time. She's glad she's getting around that fast because of the emergency directions. But when we look at how the government sometimes screwed up in taking certain measures, I'm scratching behind my ears again. Is this such a convenient way? Thorough research is indeed a difficult feature of a rule of law. Why, then, is the government so confident that an urgent warning does not lead to misplaced preventive action with the risk of irreparable administrative damage? I told you, there is no reason for optimism in practice. The inspection carried out financial investigations at the Haga Lyceum for months. Even that was shot to shreds by the judge. Surely an urgent warning is a precarious undertaking when the Minister is able to intervene in the educational board, not only in the event of a serious suspicion, but even in the event of reasonable suspicion? We really need to ask ourselves if this is not going to overplay our hand as a government. Mr. Chairman. Are there any alternatives to the approach proposed in the legislative proposal? We must then ask ourselves, in our belief, whether the problem is not primarily or largely within the foundation, as the Scientific Council for Government Policy calls it. It has been more and more about foundations rather than associations. Within foundations, parents and staff do not themselves have the power to dismiss directors and supervisors. That is the reason for looking at the Minister for a solution. That seems logical, but it's a bit of a strange situation. Look at the recent lead at the Foundation for Personal Education. All the participation councils and all the school leaders asked the directors intrusively to leave. But they have no legal means to do so. Then you may wonder why a minister maintains this system problem. This is an absurd situation, given the original intention of one of the aspects of freedom of education. It is precisely this most recent example that underlines the importance of looking at how we can put the situation of school communities in order ourselves. Why aren't we hearing from the government about this alternative? In the SGP's view, this is a much more obvious route than constantly extending the designation power. If we set it up properly, an association can have a much clearer anchored legal status or legal position for parents and staff. I'm not even talking about a co-determination council. We are also going to consider whether we can possibly arrange a good structure and security through that channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u167	A very natural silence. Mr Kwint, for a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you. I understand Mr Bishop's point. I do believe, in the case of SvPO, that he is right, that there was broad support from both the teacher delegation and the parents towards the board. Does Mr Bisschop therefore share my view that we have also seen a number of examples in which intervention was fairly broadly shared, so let me put it this way: the desire to intervene, but that the broad coalition that supported the intervention did not include the parents or teachers of the school, so that it is not automatic that you can ultimately intervene in an educational board through the parents or through the teachers if there are abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u169	I will come back to that point later. At what point should you, as a government, want to intervene in a legal person? We have organized education in the Netherlands now, fortunately, in such a way that the competent authority rests with the legal entities. What time do you want to intervene? If there's an incident with a teacher, with a student? The Minister is very strongly placed in the position of some sort of interim manager in the proposal before us: something is happening, which gives a reasonable presumption of intervention. No, the minister's system is responsible. It is not responsible for the individual well-being of every student, every teacher, every board. I'd like to ask some questions about that. I shall come to that point of responsibility in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u170	I think Mr Bishop is skipping one step and that is the inspection report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u171	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u172	The inspection report. The Minister may still decide on a designation on the basis of an inspection report. The chance that an inspection report will end up on his desk because one student has wrongly contracted a flat tire in the bicycle booth seems to me to be relatively small. There is certainly a report on the table indicating that something is wrong. Does Mr Bishop share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u173	Only if you lower that threshold, for example by "a reasonable suspicion" rather than "a strong suspicion" or "a serious suspicion," do you have the chance to misunderstand, miss out, I say with a number of incidents in mind over the last few years. You'll do even more damage. I am particularly concerned about a careful procedure. To be honest, I think that the problem is much more, or the chance is much more in limiting deadlines, let it take place under pressure, so that if it is necessary on the basis of a serious suspicion you can actually intervene quickly rather than, as it were, take action in advance in a reasonable suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u174	Mr. Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u175	I wonder, when you see how long appeals can last. When you see the taxation of the judiciary, I wonder how much space there is in shortening the procedures themselves. I think that, in the end, the dilemma outlined by Mr Bishop is right, you know, that you can, of course, intervene with a lower threshold and more quickly, increase the risk of intervention once and for all, perhaps not having to do so afterwards. I would ask Mr Bishop to put it on the other hand that in recent years we have seen cases where children have been exposed to poor education or to unsafe education, precisely because these procedures have taken so long and have not yet gone through every professional opportunity. Does Mr Bishop understand that you can also opt for a provisional jurisdiction: we are not firing someone, we are just saying "During the rest of the investigation you are on the sidelines"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u176	Yeah, but if you don't do anything about the duration of those procedures, it's gonna drag on for a long time. In fact, you might have to shorten those appeal periods. I don't have any clear answers to that either. Maybe you should invest it in a special court, an educational court that becomes very expert, I can imagine all kinds of things so you can switch quickly. That's important. I see more good in that than in lowering the threshold, because I see great risks in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u177	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u178	Mr. Chairman. The government writes that the indication of situations in which a funding sanction is not the right means to achieve improvement. That's what got me thinking. Apparently, the government believes that the path of funding sanctions has been identified first. When using the power of designation, the Minister will have to make it plausible that this funding sanction is not or will not be sufficient. That's an important condition. But it's not in the bill. The SGP has little hope that this sentence will help schools out of the explanatory statement if a minister were to cross the line because the exceptional nature of the designation is so severely undermined by the proposal. The Minister may, according to the system of the proposal, give an indication if the explicitly appointed conditions are met. That leads to a few questions. Why has the government not also explicitly written down the requirement of subsidiarity as a condition? So this is not a side issue, and the main issues should, according to the regulatory guidelines, simply be included in the proposal itself. That is why I have tabled the amendment on this point. This bill defies the usual standards of freedom of association as hitherto found in legal law. According to the Civil Code, the board is responsible for managing the association and foundation. Responsibility applies not only when the sun is shining, but also when there are problems or even serious problems. This is precisely when it is up to drivers to keep the ship straight or to get it right. Politics and the judge must not take the helm lightly in order to remain in the same metaphor. That can only be done in extreme situations. Otherwise, the minister would become some sort of regular director of an institution. He can't be, because he has a completely different responsibility. "And he shouldn't want that either," the minister's officials rightly write. Against this background, the legislator has deliberately given a very cautious interpretation of the Minister's administrative designation. This must involve serious forms of maladministration. Even the criterion is that there must be effects on the system as a whole. This is perfectly logical in the system of responsibility of the Minister. The Minister is not called upon to prevent or tackle and resolve any incident at any school. The Minister must do so only if there is a risk of unmanageable consequences at sector level. As an example, the conditions surrounding the ROC Leiden, a school that is actually too big to fall. In the short term, thousands of pupils would have to find another school. Of course, the government must always act if the law is not complied with, but this is simply done through the regular supervision of the inspection. She also has good instruments for that. In the first instance, it is not done by administrative intervention by the Minister. The role of interim director does not fit the minister. Why does the government have such a radical influence on the Minister's responsibility? First, his responsibility is limited to effects on the system, and now he can suddenly interfere with the micro-level of the individual pupil. I deliberately focused it a little, because I would like a clear and sound answer to it. Now I come to the specific content of the bill. The government recognizes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u179	One moment, Mr. Bishop. You've already started on another part, but Mr. Beertema would like to ask a short question on the previous subject. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u180	I found it interesting that Mr Bishop mentioned the example of the ROC Leiden. But did I miss something, or did he say that the available instruments were sufficient to lead that drama of the ROC Leiden to a happy ending?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u181	It was eventually led to an end. But the most unsatisfactory thing was the long run of all sorts of procedures. The doorbell's been ringing. Measures have been taken. But there were appeals and such things. That is why this example fits. I would like to do that exercise, but I didn't do it myself. If you shorten such a process now and make it binding, would you be able to prevent such a drama or intervene in time? It's just a thought exercise. We are looking for a reduction in the deadline rather than a reduction in the threshold. At what point do you intervene? At what point is there a reasonable reason, a reasonable suspicion? I wonder if that had offered an opening in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u182	What I remember about this case is that the PVV, together with the VVD, has advocated speeding up the process in such a way that we would let the institution go bankrupt. That was prevented by the rest of the room. That has once again led to the endless gossip. As a result, all the failing directors reappeared in other places in the Netherlands. It's a bit of an incestuous club. Everyone knows everyone. They always get a nice job. I found that extremely intricate. I myself have included this as an example of a case where this law is welcome to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u183	Okay. I can also imagine that consideration. However, I think that the shadow side of this pimped-up bill, done on the advice of the Council of State, is too great, because there are many risks of derailment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u184	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u185	Yes, chairman, with the specific content of the bill. The Government recognises that the administrative designation can only be dealt with in exceptional situations. But it is not persuasive to insist that the bill complies with this principle. Problems no longer need to be structural in order to be able to intervene. Problems don't even have to be serious. Also long-term problems of limited severity allow the Minister to take over the helm. Add to this that it may be the expectation of threatening problems rather than actual problems. The Minister may even intervene in the situation of a single pupil. There is hardly a serious threshold left. To correct that, I have tabled three amendments. Then I come to the role of citizenship in the administrative designation. I welcome the fact that the legislative proposal seeks to put an end to the violation of the core values of the democratic rule of law as far as possible. Who would not want to end such abuses immediately from The Hague? But why should the Minister himself have the opportunity to deal with this? Surely this can be solved perfectly by announcing a financial sanction and developing the possibilities in this respect? In practice, the SGP has not yet heard a driver who does laconically about a heavy funding sanction, apart from the publicity pressure that comes with it. Can the Minister explain what he can do in such a situation? What are the legal implications of such actions? Mr. Chairman. The effects of the letter of amendment have hardly been discussed and described in Parliament and by experts, but we should be voting soon. I mentioned it earlier: we really shouldn't do this. This is not a careful legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u186	I was triggered by what Mr Bishop said about the financial sanctions. I'm struggling a little with that myself. In my opinion, it can go to work to the detriment of pupils and teachers. Eventually, the school will be cut off on funding. I think that is a real risk. How does Mr Bishop look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u187	I thank Mrs Paul for her question, and I thank her for her question. This affects the progress of the education process. That's true. Fortunately, most people in education have a heart for that. A threat of a funding sanction is often sufficient to improve business. That is not an empty threat. If we do not want to apply the sanction, we are too easily taken hostage by an institution that does not want to change. That is why, as a government, I would insist, or see to it, that pupils and staff do not suffer, but that school policy is brought into line with what is needed to speak of a healthy policy. I wouldn't want to be held hostage by the idea that students might suffer. You can, and you want to avoid that, but you shouldn't accept that as a means of power to you as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u188	Can I suggest to Mr Bishop that we also take into account the fact that we should not let ourselves be held hostage by those who may be less well off with the children and the profession they are working on and that it is precisely for those exceptional cases that it is necessary to have the mandate to intervene? I fully agree with Mr Bishop. He said before that the people in education are at the heart of the matter. I believe that too, and that is the case for the most part. But especially for those exceptional cases, you may also need exceptional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u189	For the sake of clarity, therefore, I am not opposed to giving the designation authority, but in the system you have to prove that you have used other resources, including funding sanctions that have not achieved the desired result. I would have liked this more clearly as a systematic instrument. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u191	Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber, some groups regularly concern themselves with higher education in countries such as Hungary. With this bill, we are now so far away that Dutch administrators and academics start to worry. The SGP believes that it should be clear on this issue that academic freedom cannot be compromised. That is why we have the amendment on this point. That affects Mr De Hoop's amendment. My amendment goes a little further, but I think it can serve the cause well. Finally, Mr President. If we get the...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u192	One moment. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u193	I was listening with interest to Mr. Bishop. I thought there might be some examples after he said something about education and academic freedom in Hungary. I would like to ask him: are we not very much on the wrong road here when we see the rolling out of the wok agenda in the academia? Every university is in on it. See how professors conclude on the basis of their own scientific research that the scientific method is no longer valid because it is ultimately racist because it was conceived by white old men. I mean, that's how far it's going in here. Diversity officers everywhere, who consider that dogma of diversity more important than pure, are quite scientific research. Haven't we strayed farther than what's going on in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u194	I recognize to a great extent what Mr Beertema brings to this House. Fortunately that is not the case everywhere and in everyone, but there are phenomena where you really frown the eyebrows of "must this still be called science." Then it's more of a political-activist agenda. In that respect, of course, it is also very damaging. As a chamber, we rejected such an action programme from the government to the universities in the previous period, thanks to the current minister. But what happens in the meantime? From the then minister you get the reaction "yes, they want it themselves," so there will be a diversity officer and there will be a diversity and inclusion test and all that kind of jokes and jokes. European laws and regulations force this on us; that is absolutely the case. I am going to look again in the budget to see if there is any provision for this and to go to universities. But that's another story. I can imagine. Just, as a government, you can't pull strings here to put an end to that, even with this proposal, even if you go much further. Then you come into a situation where as a government you want to exercise control over academic freedom and the academic results. You have to stay far from that and then you have some discomfort to endure, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u195	In line with that. If the Minister of Education of Mr Orbán's government from Hungary were to set up a government institute that would oversee science communication, a national institute for science communication, we would all be here screaming murder and fire; you see: the government is sitting in the chair of science. It happened here. Mr. Robbert Dijkgraaf, who unfortunately is not here, has just done this. He has set aside ten million dollars to set up his own little ministry of truth. Hasn't that crossed a line for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr. Bishop, this isn't quite the heart of law enforcement, I have the idea. You're gonna take a side jump, but I'm gonna leave this one for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u197	I share some of Mr Beertema's feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u198	Oh, oh,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u199	That has to be said. You can see that certain ideologies mark academic education and research more than academic freedom is leading it. I think it goes too far if I go further, but there are some questionable developments at this point, which no one will dispute, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u200	Finally, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u201	The chairman warned already that you should be a bit careful to say that you share feelings with PVV's, because you have been canceled before you know it very well. In this respect, you should be grateful to the President. Be careful!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u202	I always try to be careful at that point, but clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u204	Finally, Mr President, I said. If we have learned anything from the cases around the Cornelius Haga Lyceum, it is that the government in particular had its affairs badly in order. In this context, I would also like to acknowledge that I, too, have made strong statements; I agree with that in abstracto. Just, I didn't realize how weak the government business was at the time, so I'd use a little more cautious words now. There were articles of law dragged in that didn't apply. I'll finish this and then I'll appreciate an interruption. Own rules were wrongly applied. The basis for the designation was downright lean. If we allow this to affect ourselves, even if we do not have that evaluation, then it should require some self-reflection. That could also bear fruit when we talk about this bill. The fact that this is only happening in a limited way gives cause for concern for the future. That's not the learning ability we expected after all the government affairs. In view of the fundamental rights and freedoms at stake, I hope to have outlined something of this, and that extends much wider than just the educational institutions. I would like to have a response to that procedural proposal at some point this evening. I'm not very good at all the procedures, but fortunately we have our clerk with us; our help, our support and our help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u205	Sure. I propose that at the end of the first term of the Chamber, Mr Bishop's proposal be withdrawn and that an opinion be sought from the Education Council on the letter of amendment and on whether there is a majority in favour of it. The logical time is for all colleagues to exchange their arguments in the first place. At the end of that we will submit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u206	See, that clerk can do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u207	Definitely. I am always full of praise for the support in this House of Representatives. That can't be said often enough. Thank you for seeing that, too. Mr. Van Meenen, eight interruptions and 23 further questions, and I'm sure you have one for Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u208	That's not so bad for me, Mr. Chairman. And then I've been holding back the whole time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u209	I understand you're a little disappointed, colleague Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u210	No, but 25 minutes speaking time from Mr Bishop...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u211	17.31 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u212	Seventeen. Whatever. Two things, Mr President, because I'm also going to respond to the order proposal. Let's get this over with. I have understood Mr Bishop's seventeen minutes above all as a manly attempt to pretend that government is now going to fall victim to the government. But I think, and so I know Mr Bisschop, that it is ultimately the pupils and students who have been repeatedly victims of non-action and that our government instruments have failed in doing so. He has literally said: it is not the minister's job to intervene when the interest of pupils is at stake. I think so. I think that's a job. We have said this to the minister's predecessors on several occasions, including Mr Bishop. I'm very sorry to hear that. I am sorry that his view of this bill is particularly important. Then, if you'll allow me, Mr President, I'll go straight to the procedural proposal. I understand, moreover, that a further opinion from the Council of State is being requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u213	Also, I'm with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u214	Well, I would like to point out the following, and I hope that colleagues will be able to understand that as well. Look, with his changes, which Mr Bishop sees as very grand and compelling, the Minister does nothing but go back to the original bill. The Council of State has already advised on that original bill. In other words, we already know the opinion of the Council of State on the changes. This is undoubtedly exactly the same as the opinion given by the Council of State on the original legislative proposal. I wonder if Mr Bishop sees it that way. And if not, I'm very curious why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u215	Indeed, the criticism by the Council of State of the original legislative proposal led to an amendment of the proposal, because that criticism was fundamental. Now the proposal is more or less reduced to the former, the original, version, and you say: that criticism is already there. Yes, but what does the Chamber do, what does the Cabinet do with that criticism? They'll put it next to them. That's a bad thing. Precisely because the Education Council has been challenged and there is no advice from that council, you could also submit this to the Education Council. That is a separate, objective body. With that, you promote care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u216	Yeah, it could all be. We can also submit it to all kinds of other bodies. We can all do that, but as far as I'm concerned, we're not going to do that. But the question of whether or not we need an opinion from the Council of State is fundamental here. Because there's been a change. We agree on that. Only, that change exactly brings us back to the original bill, so not a bit, as Mr Bishop suggests. So we know the judgment of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u217	You just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u218	That's negative. I'll admit that immediately, but it's up to us to weigh that in the end. So what I don't want is for us to ask for the familiar path and ask the Council of State again to give an opinion on it. We already know that. It is now ultimately up to us, the politicians, to judge this in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u219	This raises the question of how D66 is then opposed to the appeal, including to the Chamber, to come to legislation carefully, to give them more attention and to listen carefully. But then we say to the Council of State: yes, you have done razor-sharp criticism; well, good, we are shouldering our shoulders and just racking on. So you shouldn't want this. It is a textbook example of careless legislation if you do nothing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u220	I wish Mr Bishop always had that attitude. If there are certain other legislative proposals here that will suit him, then it cannot be done quickly enough. This argument by Mr Bishop is really an opportunity argument. That's how I see it. Anyway, his approach was: we need a new judgment from the Council of State. My point, and I am curious to see how colleagues look at it, is: it is not, because we already know it. That is the judgment of the original law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u221	Therefore, it might be useful to ask for an additional opinion from the Education Council. However, I am far from expressing the view that I have here on occasion. We are always aware of the advice of the Council of State. Other groups will undoubtedly do the same. If we don't go along with that, we have our arguments for it. However, when advice concerns careful legislation and careful procedures, we usually always add ourselves to the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u222	Mr President, may I comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u223	Really short, Mr. Van Meenen. Here's what I'm gonna tell you. You have given colleagues a kind of review a number of times and indicated how you look at it. You can do this on your own term. You can give your own vision on that bill. In fact, you are also responding to what Members are saying. That is not the intention of an interruption. I don't need to explain that to you as senior committee chairman. Again, this is your ninth interruption. You already had her in threes. You are now going with a fourth question. You may find something of it, but do so briefly and do not review extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u224	Here's what's important. Mr Bishop says: 'We give our account of the Council of State'. That is what my group is doing. But accounting is something other than just following the judgment of the Council of State. I can list numerous legislative proposals, in which Mr Bishop finally simply ignored that judgment as to whether there was partial agreement. That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u225	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u226	There is another question from Mr Van Meenen. I don't want to deny him the answer to that either. He says: what matters here is not so much the boards, but the students. I very much agree with that and that also reflects the connection between Mr Van Meenen and me several times. That is what has always driven us in our working lives before the Chamber. Only, the question is, how do you serve the interests of the students? I did not say that if things go wrong with pupils, then a minister should not intervene, quite the contrary. Only, I said the minister is not responsible for every incident, every individual student and every individual teacher. By reducing procedures, the importance of pupils can, in my view, be better served than by maintaining long procedures and lowering the threshold of designation. That's why I have so much trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u227	Thank you. Did that bring you to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u228	I was at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u229	I saw Mrs Paul and Mr Van Baarle standing in that order. Mrs. Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u230	However, I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Van Meenen said in response to Mr Bishop's comment on the Council of State and the addition of the opinion. I would like to endorse what Mr Van Meenen said, because sending the law back to the Council of State is not going to bring anything else. The qualification of carelessness that Mr Bishop sends us is far from my point of view. We've been given a piece of advice. In the end, it is up to us, including myself as spokesman, to weigh that in a total context. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u231	I certainly did not mean to point out that colleagues would not consider such opinions. I think I mentioned that in a sub-section. However, I find it problematic how fundamental criticism of a legislative proposal, which was initially recognised as fundamental, is then dismissed in the vein of: we choose to do so, because we want it to be arranged in this way. I think that is a problem for the care of legislation. I don't think that's the way you want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u232	Finally, we have Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u233	I apologize, because I was just at the committee debate on terrorism. I have just come back in, so I may not have taken part of Mr Bishop's input. But I was wondering if Mr Bishop had taken note of the decision notes on the bill. In it, the Ministry itself states, about a number of changes made by this Minister to the original bill, that an opinion of the Council of State is required. It is an additional amendment, and therefore an opinion from the Council of State is needed, according to the Ministry. Does Mr Bisschop therefore share the view of the DENK Group that this is an additional reason for the Council of State to look at it again? It is reported to the Ministry itself. That also indicates that the Chamber can ask for it. That's a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u234	If we are not careful, we will have a procedural discussion here: is it necessary or not? Mr Van Meenen's line of thinking was: what we got out of it in the first instance after the Council of State's opinion, we got back into it through the letter of amendment, so the opinion is already there. Nevertheless, the question remains as to how to ignore this destructive criticism of the Council of State. That is why I said: I could imagine the Council of State. You can also ask: what do you think of us doing this? I fear that the coalition will not be so enthusiastic about this, but that aside. I can write that answer myself, I'm afraid. The Education Council is a body that advises more often on education issues, also on request. Then at least you have an objective outsider who also lets his light shine on it. I cannot imagine that the coalition would not want to be advised by, for example, an Education Council, so I have good hope that we can do something like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u235	I can't get that impression. Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u236	My strong impression is that the expression 'what is now before us is the original legislative proposal that the Council of State has seen' is not correct, because it has been added to it. That is what is said internally in the decision-making papers: that is why you should have the Council of State look at it again. In addition to Mr Bishop's legitimate objections, that seems to me to be an additional reason to say: let us, above all, do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u237	You don't have to convince me. It's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u238	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u239	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u240	Thank you, again, for your contribution. Excellent in time, indeed, Mr. Bishop. Compliments. I think I'm gonna get a sticker... Mrs Paul, you have the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u241	Thank you, Mr President. I know that we are all side by side here in the wish that every child, every young person and every teacher should be able to learn and work in a safe environment. A safe environment where you follow good education and where you can be who you are and say what you find. In the vast majority of schools, this is fortunately the case. It may sound superfluous to say, but after everything that has changed so far, I am committed to saying this: in the vast majority of all schools it is. There, expert and passionate girls, masters, school leaders and administrators make sure that our children have a safe haven where they learn what they need to take their place in the world and participate fully. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. There are schools where children are given antidemocratic ideas, where quality education is poor or where there are major financial abuses, which ultimately harm the position of pupils and teachers. In situations like this, you want to be able to intervene quickly and in a targeted manner, but at the moment it is still not possible to do so. A number of cases have already been mentioned, but I will also mention a few. In recent months there have been the Schools of Personal Education. It has been clear for years that education is very weak and that taxpayers' money is being dealt with illegally. Only last week or two weeks ago the driver left under great pressure. The present law could have been used earlier and the pupils had much better education. Another example is the Haga Lyceum, where antidemocratic ideas were spread and the education inspection was prevented from carrying out its task. With an urgent instruction, this could have been dealt with earlier. That is what we as VVD consider important, because we do not want children to grow up with their backs to our society. It is therefore a good thing that today we are dealing with the Enlargement Act on administrative instruments of education. This law has been waiting for a long time. Last year, together with colleagues Westerveld and Peters, I tabled a motion to encourage the Minister at the time to make more haste with this law. For me, it was and is indigestible that we watch patiently how wrong drivers go about their business and children are seriously neglected or even destroyed. On the basis of a report from the Education Inspectorate, I would like to stress once again that we must act quickly and firmly in schools that perform poorly, guarantee a safe school for each pupil and prevent anti-integrative, anti-democratic and anti-legal education. It can intervene faster and more firmly than it is at present. The VVD Group warmly welcomes this, because we are convinced that it will help and protect children. Moreover, my group is well aware that the Minister's intervention through an urgent statement is a very important instrument. We don't think lightly about this. If I have given that impression, I would very much like to take it away. We believe that it is right and sensible, also in order to protect the autonomy of school administration, that strict conditions are attached to this. Without this law, however, precious time is often lost in which children are exposed to unwanted practices and you depend on the cooperation of the school board in order to achieve the right actions. As far as we are concerned, that is clumsy and undesirable, since in many of the cases, even in situations mentioned earlier by other colleagues, governance is precisely the culprit. From the recent examples quoted by the Minister, VMBO Maastricht, Haga Lyceum and Avicenna, it becomes clear that, because of the lack of proper regulation, the right legislation could not be dealt with quickly enough. This is not acceptable in the interests of the pupils concerned and, as far as I am concerned, it is unacceptable. A silent hope is also that the potentially robust measures have a deterrent effect, because prevention is still better than cure. Mr. Chairman. The note on the report addresses a lot of questions and concerns, also thanks to the extensive input of all colleagues. The main point I am still concerned with is the question of financial sanctions. It has already been mentioned in the exchange with Mr Bishop. It seems to me that this big negative impact can have on students and employees. I think it is precisely the intention to protect those students and the staff. In some cases, why does the Minister not opt for the elimination or complete removal and replacement of bad and counter-productive drivers? Finally. The note literally states: "A safe school environment in which all pupils are treated equally is a prerequisite for development and learning performance. The proposed instruments contribute to this." The reinforced citizenship law states that schools are responsible for concrete policies on how to deal with extreme thought and intolerance and that schools should support teachers in promoting our free democratic values and making themes such as anti-Semitism, xenophobia, discrimination and sexual diversity discussable. This helps children and young people to relate in the classroom themselves in a good way, but also to be able to deal in the future with all kinds of sensitive themes in society. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, we must intervene quickly in schools where inequality is expressed, whether it be boys and girls or Ihbti young people. My question to the Minister is simple: does this law provide the Minister with enough tools to protect students from such undesirable practices? So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u242	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Paul. Then we arrived at Mr Bertema on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u243	Mr. Chairman. Today, at last, the law to enable the Minister to be given the powers to deal adequately and vigorously with gross abuses in education. We have been strongly advocating this as a PVV for years. This is not just what we have done, given the many motions adopted by the Minister and the Chamber, which at last give the powers to intervene where this is absolutely necessary. We refer here, of course, to the years of suffering, to the administrative impotence and frustration we have seen in the handling of the scandals surrounding VMBO Maastricht, the Avicenna, Ibn Ghaldoun, the Haga Lyceum, to the maladministration at ROC Leiden, a truly incredibly financial drama, and the so-called Islamic university that was not a university. Mr. Chairman. First a few comments on the big picture. The political policy choices based on the conclusions of the Dijsselbloem Commission have put parents, teachers and politicians, who are ultimately responsible for the quality of education, at such a great distance that they could no longer act adequately. The government would only deal with what, the core goals, and the education itself about how, the way the education was set up. The education itself should know better than the government what would be good for education and it should end with all the top-down innovations imposed by the government. Those conclusions of Dijsselbloem were justified at that time. What was not justified was that the starting point was elevated to a dogma, a dogma in marble chiseled, unchanging and for all eternity. 'Cause what turned out? From then on, the ownership of the education proved not to be invested with the parents and the teachers, but with the employers' umbrella, the directors. And in many cases they were no longer suited to the interests of the parents, the teachers, the students and the students. That, in combination with the lumpsum payment, gave the driver's caste free rein to do and let go of what she wanted. Still one innovation after another was topdown on education, now not by the government but by the directors themselves. Some worked out well, others were irresponsible and mainly motivated by efficiency. Increasingly larger classes, fewer teachers, all kinds of self-discovery learning, setting up the so-called flexible shell and temporary contracts, maintaining unnecessarily large reserves, unbridled englishing and recruiting as many foreign students as possible as a earning model, introducing totally irresponsible educational concepts that lead to a quarter of semi-analphabete pupils. Well, I guess I kind of called it all, I guess. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the big picture, about the organization of education and the declining quality, which has enormous social consequences. We have always said that the government must take back much more direction. But even if there were fairly clear cases of maladministration, I have called Avicenna and VMBO Maastricht, the government was in the bag for lack of opportunities. As far as we are concerned, this legislative change has proved to be useful and necessary. Luckily, a lot of maladministration doesn't occur. We're talking about incidents. But the incidents that we have seen are related to the lives and the future of hundreds, if not thousands of young people, who are irreversibly short, because the government did not have the tools to intervene in time. I have just said it in the interruption debate: it was incidents, but the social unrest that caused them was great, so great that we in the House of Representatives had a sense of frustration: what should we do? We are rightly expected to act on that. The examples that we saw come along are limited to basic education and mbo. Some colleges were also not a model of correctness. I am thinking of the diploma fraud in Inholland at the time, of the often irresponsible scale increases, of failing real estate projects and very recently the proscious festival with performances by all kinds of priceless artists at Avans Hogeschool. Apparently, the money's bouncing against the skirts there. As far as we are concerned, there is much more to the governance of foundational education and especially of MBO and HBO. We will come to that on another occasion. For now, this legislative amendment, which aims to extend the administrative enforcement instruments, is enough and we agree with the need to do so. We note that the governance of universities is different from the foundational education, the MBO and the HBO, in that the Minister already has the power to appoint supervisors in respect of universities. In addition, the universities are accredited very carefully by the NVAO, which also operates bilaterally. As far as I am concerned, this gives an additional incentive to take our own quality assurance very seriously. Our question to the Minister is whether these differences in governance have ensured that universities have been protected from these major disasters, and what has happened is that there has been maladministration of the extent of the other sectors we have experienced. That's an important question. If that is the case, it would be in favour of excluding universities from this law. I would like a response from this Minister, who will then speak on behalf of his Minister for Universities. We're gonna be very careful what he says. Mr. Chairman. We're...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u244	I think there's a question on the foregoing. Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u245	I think you could have another discussion about the number of incidents. I have just mentioned a number of them. Those were really unsafe situations, which sometimes lasted for years. This involved PhD students, departments where it was structurally unsafe and so on. All this may get less news than the Haga Lyceum or VMBO Maastricht, but it is at least as bad for those involved. I just don't understand what's going on here. Even if you trust that the system works well enough for the universities, is it not in itself any objection that the minister will ultimately have that power if it does go wrong at some point? Then why let that instrument be taken away in advance? You can trust it's probably never gonna be deployed, but it's gonna be there, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u246	I sympathise with Mr. Van Meenen when it comes to the incidents that have taken place. That was absolutely not a pass and was extremely painful for those involved. There's been far too late intervention. I absolutely agree with you. Nevertheless, I think that the greatness, the greatness, of the disasters at the other institutes, like a ROC Leiden, an Ibn Ghaldoun and so on, and the social unrest that has caused that... How can I put it? The inability to act on this is greater in these sectors, the sectors of foundational education, the MBO and the HBO, than in the universities. Then there's something else going on with it. That is, of course, academic freedom, which, at least at the PVV, is considered to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u247	Yeah, except when it's used to appoint diversity officers. It'll be different all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u248	No, no, now Mr. Van Meenen is turning around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u249	One moment. We're doing it by the book. Mr. Van Meenen shared a...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u250	I'm not gonna make it a competition for academic freedom, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u251	No, but ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u252	It can't be that academic freedom is ultimately a freedom to do what you think is right as a director. This is about drivers. This is not about researchers' freedoms. They can do whatever they want and investigate what they want. In the end, it is a question of giving us the opportunity to intervene when it presents itself. You yourself mentioned the example of the flexible shell. Well, if that's going on somewhere, it's going to be at universities, where maybe barely half of them can still get a permanent position. You gotta be able to find something about that someday, right? That also leads to insecurity. This also results in poor education and research.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u253	I think it takes him a long time to make a point, but I have to say that he has a point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u254	Sure. Well, the goal is that we exchange arguments here and eventually all get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u255	No, seriously, that's true. I would like to add a final paragraph to the argument about academic freedom. We are, after all, sensitive to the university's argument about ensuring academic freedom. I am constantly talking about universities and not about colleges. This academic freedom is so important that the government wants and must remain remote from it. I wouldn't want me, as possibly future PVV Minister of Education, to be tempted to look extra critically at, for example, the UvA, Leiden University, VU or any other left-wing university. I'll forget about the Radboud. Do you even remember a healthy right-wing university? No, I can see it. You've run out of time. They're not here! They're not here. But seriously, Mr. Chairman. Where basic education is concerned about learning goals and core objectives, and in HBO about applied science, it is only in universities about free science, which should in no way be hindered by government narratives. Whether imposed by ministers of the D66 house or the PVV: the political delusion of the day has nothing to do with the academy. Let that be said. This, together with the power of designation already conferred on the government in the supervision, strong participation and international accreditation, ensures the right level of checks-and-balances, which is lacking in other sectors. As far as we are concerned, this law on foundational education, the MBO and the HBO finally gives the scope that the Minister and the States-General need to act quickly and adequately in the event of major crises. But we would like to invite the Minister to respond to our idea of excluding universities from this legislative amendment. We would like a reflection and then we can make a well-founded choice about how to proceed with this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Beertema, for your contribution. Before you go, I see that Mr De Hoop has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u257	Yes, on the evenings when the Labour Party and the PVV agree on many points, I must at least take the opportunity to consider this and to dedicate an interruption to Mr Beertema. Thank you for the speech. You also said yourself that you attach great importance to academic freedom. Does that also mean that you are sympathetic to our amendments on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u258	Yeah, it certainly does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u259	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u260	We are indeed very concerned about this. You know, I'm not saying for nothing: should it ever come to this in the future that the PVV will deliver an education minister, we will be very keen on that. But it's not for nothing that we're really worried about what we're seeing right now. I've just said it. The PVV finds a central institute for science communication, set up by the government, by the government, an absolute no-go. And that should be a no-go for any well-thinking person here in the House of Representatives who has a heart for science. This simply cannot be done and I do not understand how a minister, a top scientist like Robbert Dijkgraaf, can be guided in this way by his own superior sense of excellence, which is so characteristic of D66's. Unfortunately, he's not here right now, and I have to deal with this minister. I don't know if he's gonna come out. But Minister Dijkgraaf is mistaken in his role. He's not a scientist anymore. He's the government, he's the boss. I don't understand why he's going to set up a central institution of truth. I just can't reach it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u261	It's a passionate argument, Mr. Beertema. But the question was whether you agree with Mr De Hoop's amendment. That's the answer you gave, because you're willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u262	I'm definitely gonna take a positive look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u263	Mr. De Hoop, yet another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u264	No, I'm happy about that. I am also pleased that this way Mr Beertema was given a second opportunity to express his frustrations. Then he'll lose it and we'll be able to go forward joyfully again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u265	That's right. That too has its function. Thank you, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u266	They're not frustrations, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u267	I said "passionate argument."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u268	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u269	With that we have arrived at Mr Van Meenen of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u270	Mr President, thank you very much. In recent years there have been a number of cases in education where the total has gone wrong. They've all passed through here. These were situations in which the quality of education remained seriously behind, whether teachers and pupils were in an unsafe situation and even at risk. I am thinking of the Haga Lyceum, where there was clear talk of maladministration and students were kept away from Dutch society. Even the inspection didn't get access. I'm thinking of the Cheider, where it was structurally unsafe for students. I am thinking of the Maastricht VMBO, where hundreds of students could not take their final exams. I am thinking of the Avicenna College, where internal struggles barely taught. The most recent is the Foundation for Personal Education, on which we are going to have a separate debate. I am thinking of the teachers who signed the Nashville Declaration, which states that good Christians should always reject homosexuality. I'm thinking of Gomarus forcing Ihbti young people to come out of the closet. Also think of schools with identity statements where parents and students had to distance themselves from gay marriage. Mr. Chairman. Too often in recent years there have been unsafe situations, for example for lhbti students and teachers, while this group already feels less safe at school, while the suicide rate for this group is higher than for other young people and more often they are victims of bullying behaviour. In all these situations we, the government, stood with our hands behind our backs, because we could not intervene quickly and well enough. In some cases, the board was unwilling to cooperate in restoring the abuses. This law puts an end to this and gives the ministers the means to intervene if things are clearly not going well. D66 therefore supports this law. With this we limit Article 23. The freedom of education is a great asset, but, as I have said before in this Chamber and elsewhere, freedom of education is not a free pass for bad or unsafe education. The freedom of education is not about government, but about students, students, parents and perhaps teachers. The safety of children, students, stands before us at number one. We have a common duty to protect their right to good and safe education. In the case of ill-functioning governments in this area, we must be able to intervene. That is the way we have talked about this in the formation. You know the texts of the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. I wish there was a culture in which boards appeal to each other. But that's not gonna happen. There's no standard. People are mainly in conversation with The Hague. We have been sent letters recently about why there should be no instruments. I would have liked to read in those letters that an agreement is being made to address each other once at the points where things are going badly. Most governments are doing well and have nothing to fear from this law. Those who have something to fear from that will have to have something to fear. That makes this law possible. Then the government must take its responsibility. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister pays particular attention to inadequate quality at the end of education, and rightly so. But at least as important is access to education. This is also a serious mistake in certain cases. Think of the example of the identity statements. The possibility of refusing students is also being abused. Article 23 allows a distinction to be made on the basis of the basis, but not on the basis of race, nationality, sexual orientation or disability. There are also situations of pre-subscriptions, such as in Utrecht, which facilitate the inequality of opportunity. In Utrecht there was a shadow admission system, a kind of illegal opportunity lotto for parents. This is directly contrary to our children's right to education. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is this also under maladministration, especially now that we are adding the duty of care to this law? Mr. Chairman. In this law, the inspection has an important role to play, initially to identify the maladministration and then to discuss with the administration about the recovery and the necessary follow-up actions. Only if it appears that the administration is unwilling to cooperate will the Minister be given the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u271	Just a minute. Yes, thank you for stopping. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u272	I had a question following the example from Utrecht that Mr Van Meenen mentioned. We share the irritation and frustration about it. Wasn't the problem there? Perhaps I recall wrongly that it was about all cooperating schools in Utrecht?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u273	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u274	I mean that if you were to impose a sanction, you would have to put all the boards of the cooperating schools in Utrecht on the dike.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u275	Fortunately, it is not the only sanction that this law offers to set up governance; there are other possibilities as well. The alderman of Utrecht has researched this himself. He's spoken to the boards himself. It's improved. Well, at least that's what we're assuming. Because what's in the shadows, of course, no one knows that. I would like you to have the opportunity to intervene in such a situation. If that is to be done with all the boards involved, then it must be done. But it can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u276	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u277	Mr. Chairman. Only if the administration is unwilling to cooperate will the Minister be given the opportunity to intervene. In a number of cases over the past year, the inspection initially found no abuses and schools were given sufficient judgment. This was the case, among other things, with the Haga Lyceum and the VMBO Maastricht. My question is how we strengthen the inspection so that abuses are detected earlier. What is the situation with the unannounced visits, on which a D66 motion was previously adopted? How is the handling of individual reports at the inspection? At the Haga Lyceum there was even talk that the inspection was denied access to the school. What is the possibility of this law if that happens now? That is what Mr Kwint has already asked for. Mr. Chairman. D66 sees that with this law we are considerably expanding the instruments of the rulers. Although we now have every confidence in the current rulers, it is always good to set clear checks-and-balances with these kinds of powers. Mr Bertema has already hinted that there will be a minister who has less confidence. I am not saying that Mr Beertema automatically does. I think he wanted to tie his own hands a little bit on the back. That should definitely happen to me. Anyway... We have confidence in these leaders, but of course that is not enough for a legislative change. My question to the Minister is what the role of the House of Representatives is when the Minister makes such an urgent statement. Is the Chamber sent the information, can the Chamber by majority decide to withdraw the urgent instruction and is it necessary to answer to the Lower House afterwards? Asking that last question, understand that, of course, we are dealing with that ourselves. But I am also curious to see how the Minister looks at that, because it remains a priority that it must have urgency in some cases. So we should not have the Chamber as a great retardant in the process either. At the same time, it is important that we are well informed. Then there is the sense of social responsibility. D66 considers that this law is still insufficient to intervene in the conduct of directors who are directly contrary to the core values of our democratic rule of law. This includes discrimination, exclusion or intolerance. As far as we are concerned, the school is a practice place and a small society. Schools have recently been given a citizenship mandate to do so. School administrators and supervisors have a heavy responsibility in this and must always act in accordance with that responsibility. They have an exemplary role to play as a model for society, in particular for their pupils. Fortunately, almost all administrators have the educational heart in the right place, but the rotten apples do not belong in education. That is why D66 has already argued for a sense of social responsibility among representatives in education, as has already been laid down by law in higher education. There, an independent committee will review discriminatory behaviour and statements contrary to the core values of our democratic rule of law. This committee then advises the Minister on the consequences. A further advantage is that both the inspection and the minister do not need to standard what is socially responsible. That's where the big risk lies if you leave it to the Minister. However, in the case of certain behaviours and expressions, this must be possible and so such an independent committee is of great importance, which is thus already there. This is also in line with the advice of the Education Council. It advises not to make standard setting the task of executive, supervisory or enforcing public authorities. This committee can therefore play a role in assessing the citizenship mandate. It is still too vague even after the law on citizenship has been amended. There is a lack of core objectives and end-terms and a clear mandatory common core. We're working on that. These are always precarious issues where fundamental rights clash. The weighting is therefore a heavy responsibility and a difficult task. It concerns, for example, freedom of religion versus equality or freedom of expression versus the prohibition of discrimination. I'd like a response from the Minister. We have tabled an amendment on this with the VVD. I would also like a reply from the Minister on how this law relates to the opinion of the Education Council on Article 23. Finally, Mr President. Shall I finish my speech first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u278	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u279	D66 welcomes this law and looks forward to the Minister's answers and his appreciation of the amendments. In order for a student to learn well and for a teacher to teach properly, it must be safe at school. Boarding has an important responsibility for creating a safe atmosphere and for maintaining it. And where that doesn't happen, there's the government, with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u280	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Peters has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u281	A very short but, Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Van Meenen's glowing speech is wonderful, especially when it comes to the role of the House of Representatives in this matter. I was wondering if he might have seen that the CDA has tabled an amendment precisely on that point. If he says yes to that, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u282	Yeah, I've definitely seen that. But my speaking time was written before I saw the amendment, so you get it. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u283	No problem. These things happen, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u284	Clear. Thanks again. We have now arrived at the one-after-last speaker. After the last speaker, we'll suspend for dinner break. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf. It speaks on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u285	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Freedom. A school is a mini-society in itself, a value community. Teachers, school leaders and other educational staff work together with parents with heart and soul for the education and development of our children. They do so in a unique education system that we have in the Netherlands. We do not know any state education in the Netherlands; the education is primarily from the parents, and therefore from all of us. All parents are free to choose which views they want to give their child and which school best suits them. That is the freedom offered by our Constitution. This is also the unique feature of our Dutch education system. The Christian Union nurtures that freedom of education. With that freedom comes responsibility as well. Quality must be guaranteed, first and foremost because schools themselves are accountable to parents and the participation council. But the inspection will also ensure that education is in order and that the values of education are in line with the democratic rule of law. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal extension administrative tools. It focuses on whether the Minister needs more opportunities to intervene adequately in certain serious situations if the quality of education or the safety of pupils and students is at stake. The direct cause for this was the chaos in the school exams at VMBO Maastricht and the maladministration at the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. As a result, the government proposes to broaden the definition of "maladministration" and to give the Minister the power to give an urgent instruction. And because such an urgent indication affects constitutional freedom of direction and establishment, this power of enforcement must be "necessary and proportionate." Those are not only my words, but also the words of the Council of State, which was so critical on these two points. That is why my group has questions on both of these points. First of all, I come to the "needed." In order to assess whether there is a need for more, we also need to look at whether current instruments are not sufficient. The Council of State also draws attention to this, pointing out a report by the Audit Service, which shows that the inspection has not made sufficient use of the current tools to identify the problems of school examinations at VMBO Maastricht in good time and to call for improvement. I would like to hear from the Minister why the current instruments are not sufficient and where the added value of this urgent instruction lies. I would like to ask the Minister to respond specifically to higher education. About that higher education, the Minister himself writes that there is no case on which to base. Then I come to the "proportional." The Council of State was very critical of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u286	One moment, Mrs. Van der Graaf. I saw Mr Kwint and Mr Van Meenen rise. Mr. Kwint, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u287	I think I am still 21 interruptions behind Mr Van Meenen. I have a question for Mrs van der Graaf about proportionality. Is there enough in the toolbox? I'm just saying it's a little domestic, 'cause I'll understand it myself. We have seen several examples where the minister was just being fingered by the judge, because he would go beyond his bounds with a clue. That is proof that there is no legal basis for it to always be possible to intervene in decisions taken by a board?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u288	I am asking this question in the context of VMBO Maastricht. This is seen as a reason to extend the administrative instruments. Researchers have found that there were already many instruments. If those instruments had been used better, then perhaps none of this would have happened. We realize that the moment you see that, you're already a long way off. Just when you'd like to intervene, you're missing something. So it may well be that that is the explanation given by the Minister. At least that was the thought that came to mind. I think it is important for the Minister to make that clear in this debate, precisely because he cites this case as an argument for bringing this law into force. It is therefore a clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u289	I get that. Besides VMBO Maastricht you could also put the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. In this example, the minister was addressed by the judge precisely because he should not have sent the board away because of the lack of a legal basis. Does the Christian Union share the view that this case could be an illustration of the added value of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u290	Mr Kwint may certainly ask me that question, but I think it is important to ask the Minister to explain this clearly in this legal process. I think that's important. Of course, I saw what the judge said. I asked this question in response to the need for the proposal. I shall come back to the proportionality of the proposal. I am not the only one who is critical of this; so was the Council of State at the time. So I think it is important for the Minister to explain more clearly what he is proposing and why he is doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u291	Perhaps the Minister could take up the coalition agreement. Ministers generally deal with the government agreement. They're gonna do it nicely. As Mrs Van der Graaf knows, we have devoted almost a full page to security. It also mentions this law. It also mentions Article 23. 'Cause we're not gonna touch it. We are doing so because we are going to introduce some safeguards into lower legislation. Mrs Van der Graaf says: "It's nice that we wrote that down, but I still have some questions. The Council of State was critical. Is it even necessary? Is it even proportional?" Can I keep Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union to the agreements we made in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u292	We have indeed included in the coalition agreement that it is a good thing that we have a law with an extension for administrative instruments, but there was another law for that. That is why I am asking these questions to the Minister. I am doing my job here as a parliamentarians. At a time when we are going to substantially expand the administrative instruments, that is what is being done in this legislative proposal. I think we should ask questions about necessity and proportionality. That's what I'm doing here today. I am not assuming, I say to Mr Van Meenen, that he wants to appeal to me that I do not want to do my job as a parliamentarians and that I should not be allowed to ask those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u293	Certainly not, but I can ask what the meaning of that is, also in relation to the agreements we have made with each other. Mrs Van der Graaf is now referring to points she still has to make. They are about the changes made by the Minister in relation to the moment we made agreements. I think that's very understandable. I have questions of my own. We will always have to get an answer to that. But the first part of her contribution was not at all about the change; that was about the necessity of this law. I think that's special, because that discussion was settled in the coalition agreement, I believe. Or does she see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u294	I have just said that I think it is important for the Minister to reiterate the necessity of the legislative proposal. I have framed this in such a way that I ask the Minister a clear question that he does so here too. I have just said in an interruption to Mr Kwint that the VMBO in Maastricht lacked an instrument for urgent action at that time. There was a situation in which you wanted to intervene right away, but those instruments were lacking. I really do have that insight. But I would actually suggest that I should like to come to the points where I would like to question the Minister very critically, namely the major changes that the legislative proposal brings with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u295	Finally, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u296	I am also very curious about that, but it is quite extraordinary that you ask the coalition parties who get the assignment why it is necessary. That question has been raised in the formation, may I assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u297	I would like to emphasise...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u298	I think it's really special.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u299	One moment. Colleagues, I understand that there may be some kind of misunderstanding between two coalition parties. In response to what Mr Kwint is calling out of the microphone: no, I certainly do. Just... we'll talk when I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u300	I just want to know what's going on with the Christian Union, because we made agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u301	Sure. You asked the question. That's a clear question. Mrs Van der Graaf almost replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u302	Sure. I note that the critical questions about necessity and proportionality are emerging, also following a critical opinion by the Council of State on the very first original proposal. That proposal was then substantially amended. That bill was filed with the House of Representatives. That was also the case at the time of the discussions on the formation, which, as you know, took quite some time. I don't know exactly how long this has been considered. But that was the bill that was there at the time. We have also had a written debate on this as a Chamber. That is what we have been asking for. But when we got the answers from the government to all these questions, a letter of amendment was also sent along, in which the bill was substantially amended. Today, for the first time since two and a half weeks ago, when we were given those documents, we have the opportunity to ask the Minister about this. So yes, I ask the Minister to explain why he considers this bill necessary and proportionate in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u303	Mr. Van Meenen, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u304	I keep thinking it's special, but we're just gonna wait and see what we can do. It is really special that as four coalition parties you give an order to the Minister for the Administrative Instruments Act... You can still find everything about the extent to which the changes have made it stricter or more necessary, but the necessity that such a law should be introduced cannot please be called into question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u305	You have now made this point for the second time. Mrs Van der Graaf, you can answer the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u306	We believe it is important that schools have a safe environment, that the quality of education is good and that this falls within the rule of law. If we have to extend the instruments for this, that is good. But, as I say, it depends on how you shape it. And yes, I would like to continue my speech so that Mr Van Meenen can also get where those questions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u307	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u308	The Council of State was critical of that first proposal, as I just said. The bill has been substantially amended. The Minister did so with a letter of amendment. Mr. Chairman. First, I have a few procedural questions for the Minister. The decision note, which was also sent to the Lower House with the letter of amendment, states the following. These are comments made by the officials to the Minister. "The adjustments you want are far-reaching. As a result, there will actually be a new legislative proposal. Advice by the Council of State is also advisable." The officials say in the decision note on the letter of amendment: in material terms this means that your powers will be greatly extended, for example by deleting the word "structural" but also by extending the power of termination. The result is that the Minister can not only intervene more often, but also that he can be asked much more often why he does not intervene. I would very much like a response from the Minister. Can he reflect on how he looks back on this and also on the advice he has received? The officials speak of major changes and ask the Council of State for its opinion again. Then why wasn't that new advice chosen? Mr. Chairman. An urgent indication must be an exception in the case of structural abuses. The VO Council also expresses its concerns about the bill in a fire email. A number of important recommendations made by the Council of State have been ignored and this is at the expense of the care and precision of intervention. The risk of the current legislative proposal is that any incident and associated social pressure will immediately look at the Minister to act quickly and hard, with all its consequences, especially for pupils, staff and parents. My group therefore has serious doubts about the proportionality of the proposals in this form, as the Minister now submits them to the Chamber after the letter of amendment. I like to visit them. The Minister proposed that the letter of amendment should extend the power to give an urgent instruction. The original bill stated that there had to be structural action in respect of citizenship and social security in breach of the statutory mandate. The Minister is dropping that structural component now, and as a result, an occasional situation may already give rise to an urgent warning. I ask the Minister why he chooses this extension. The Council of State noted risks of excessive interference in the autonomy of schools. The government acknowledged these risks and wrote that precisely because of these interfaces with the freedom of education, additional safeguards are needed, including structural action. The Minister is turning that back, and my group is struggling with that. I have also seen an amendment tabled on this point. The need for structural action is not the only guarantee that has fallen. The bill included a serious suspicion of maladministration, but the letter of amendment changed that to a reasonable presumption, which is a lower threshold. An urgent warning is a serious violation of the autonomy of educational institutions. The Minister also acknowledges this in response to the Council of State. But with the letter of amendment, the Minister can intervene with this instrument if there is any reasonable suspicion of maladministration. My group believes that this affects the principle of care. There is only a very limited justification for maladministration. Choosing "a serious presumption" would prevent any prejudice to the principles of motivation, legal certainty and also to the principle of fair play. The government thought that at first and changed that reasonable suspicion to serious suspicion, but now practical employability seems to be given priority. We do see a risk there, also in the light of the letter sent by the VO Council, that every incident and every social pressure will look directly at the Minister in order to intervene quickly and hard and that these instruments will be removed. In the context of proportionality, you should also consider using less far-reaching instruments to achieve the desired result. I also ask for a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u309	Thank you for stopping. Mr Kwint first and then Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u310	I think there is now a bit of a parody of what constitutes a reasonable presumption in the law. It states: it is true that, on the basis of facts and circumstances, it is likely that an investigation to be carried out will lead to maladministration. It is not the case that there is no maladministration, but it is very likely that such an investigation will lead to maladministration. And then it is indeed a risk that with a preliminary indication you eventually come to the conclusion that it was too certain, that you should not have done so. But the alternative is to let students go to school once or twice a year in an unsafe situation, even though there is already an inspection report. That is the alternative at the time when you would reasonably suspect and delete that urgent instruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u311	I would like to follow the reasoning of the Council of State. That "reasonable presumption" was initially included in the law. Following the criticism of the Council of State, this has been changed to "serious suspicion." That is because these instruments simply give the Minister far-reaching powers. The powers of the Minister have been greatly extended in relation to the previous legislative proposal. We are therefore looking carefully at this, because this affects the way it is done in schools. If there is a serious suspicion of an unsafe situation, the Minister should be able to intervene. I would therefore ask the Minister to clarify why 'a reasonable suspicion' is his preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u312	I suspect that he has the same reason as the previous minister to write that down in the legislative proposal: it will allow you to intervene more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u313	What is your question to Mrs Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u314	Will Mrs Van der Graaf see another reply from the Minister in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u315	This is about the use of an instrument. I think the Council of State has made sensible comments on this. If you're gonna use this, you're gonna have to motivate it very well. That is something that has been pointed out. The use of this power goes a long way. It offers the Minister an incredible amount of space to intervene. In the current system, in which schools have autonomy, you have to weigh whether you think it is sufficient or not. My group is questioning this. We considered the opinion of the Council of State to be a good one, and we also thought it wise to amend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u316	I'm a little surprised. I now hear that the Christian Union is going to vote against this law. It has so many fundamental objections. Although they are packaged in critical questions, I no longer see any possibility for the Minister to meet you in such a way that you will vote for the law. What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u317	In fact, we found it striking that two and a half weeks ago we received a letter of amendment which reversed a number of amendments to the law made in response to the opinion of the Council of State. I have also seen that there are already amendments to change that again. So yes, I think Mr Beertema understands me very well when he listens to it so that the Christian Union is very uncomfortable with a law in this form. That is indeed why I am critically asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u318	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I do regret this, because this is finally a law that has been taken from my heart. Yeah, he's in danger, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u319	Yes. Please continue with your speech. It was a cry of hearts from Mr. Beertema. That's how I understood it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u320	That's how I take it. Mr. Chairman. The Education Council says that regular monitoring is appropriate for situations where there are long-term but not serious problems and that the existing instruments are sufficient. The Council of State also recommends that situations of long-term failure should not fall within the scope of the designation. I note that the Minister is not listening to this and that the Minister wants to broaden the definition of'maladministration' in this way. I wonder why the Minister is doing this, now that the Education Council and the Council of State say that the current instruments are sufficient. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has already noted that the relationship with the autonomy of educational institutions is briefly justified and that the safeguards are insufficient. The government endorsed this and amended the law with "serious" and "structural." In the explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment, the Minister writes that the restriction of educational freedom remains as limited as possible, because this law is always about action against offences that occur under exceptional circumstances, for example because they are particularly serious or occur for a long time. However, I would ask the Minister why this legislative proposal does not take account of the seriousness and the structural aspect. It makes us look like we're back to square one. The law does not contain sufficient safeguards and the argument why this law justifies infringement of autonomy and of the freedom of direction and establishment of schools is inadequate. As I said, the legislative proposal in this form in my group does indeed lead to great inconvenience. We understand that the Minister is looking for an instrument to reverse the situation with an urgent indication in the extreme. We fully understand this when pupils suffer from maladministration or an unsafe situation. But intervention must always be necessary and proportionate. That balance seemed to have been struck with the bill the Chamber has been considering. But with the letter of amendment we received two and a half weeks ago, I would like to mention that it seems to have disappeared. Mr. Chairman. I also see the reactions from the educational field. It sounds to me like it was robbed by the changes. That also leads me to the question of how the Minister prepared this letter of amendment and the reversal of those adjustments. Has he also consulted on this in the field of education? I see the whole field of education turned upside down, in my words. These are educational organisations which had an understanding of the search for and extension of the instruments, but which are now missing the balance sheet. So I look forward to the Minister's reply on this point. But we are well understood as a Christian Union when it deduces that we are critical of the legislative proposal as it is now being designed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u321	I see that Mr De Hoop has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u322	Despite the fact that Mrs Van der Graaf and I, I think, have a fundamentally different view of freedom of education and how far it goes, I do share some of the objections she raises. These are in particular the objections raised by the letter of amendment. I am very sorry that Mrs Van der Graaf was not just at that procedural meeting. Because then we might have had that written round. But I am looking for what is the point that the Christian Union could persuade to vote for that bill. Is that really in those points within that letter of amendment when it comes to "structural"? So I'm just looking for what the Christian Union wants to base that weighting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u323	I see that on the points on which I have just critically questioned the Minister, amendments and amendments have already been tabled. Those are the amendments that we consider important. What I have just said is that we understand the search for these instruments. We'll see about that. But we will always have to weigh or intervene with the use of these instruments is necessary and proportionate. We always see such a law in relation to the freedom of education as enshrined in our Constitution. It's quite an exciting law, so to speak. Would we like to take that turn to add such instruments to our law? That might be possible, but not in the way that has been proposed in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u324	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then we come to the last speaker in the first term of office, Mr Peters, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The essence of this debate is easy for me to sum up. Children are of the parents and of the community, and not of the state. It's that simple. If children are not from the State, education and therefore education is not either in the first instance. Parents determine to a large extent how and with which values their children are raised and on the basis of what vision, what belief or belief their child's education should be organized. Freedom of education is a great asset and, as far as the CDA is concerned, a pillar of our entire education system. It is not for nothing that most of our youth attends a special school, whether it is a jenaplan, dalton, montessori, free, refo, catholic, Hindu or Islamic school. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, the freedom of education must not be a licence for poor education. The Education Inspectorate supervises the quality of education in public and special schools. The basis of the school doesn't make any difference, and that's a good thing. Mr. Chairman. Freedom of education must not be an excuse for undemocratic or undermining education. After all, cannibalism is not a matter of taste. Schools that are undermining in this respect simply need to be addressed. Interventions should then be possible or made possible. That's squatter-and-cracker-clear. It cannot be the case that every sane person thinks that intervention is necessary, but the legal framework is lacking. Mr. Chairman. A lesson in the state system is sometimes in place. The Constitution is not "a very important law," it is a fundamentally different kind of law. The fact that one person is not allowed to bully, discriminate or marginalize another is laid down in regular legislation. The Constitution regulates the relationship between a large government and a small individual or groups of people. So he protects people from a government that wants to intervene too much in people's lives or, for example, prescribe them from which belief children should be added. If individuals discriminate against each other, the law should simply be enforced and not the Constitution changed. That's as ready as a whistle. Mr. Chairman. In the near past, there have been schools whose majority of this Chamber agrees that there have been limits crossed. The way citizenship was designed did not fit in with our society. The Minister always had the power to intervene, but it did not always succeed at the pace desired by the Chamber and society. One of the reasons for this was that it was not clearly defined what exactly was expected of schools in the area of citizenship. In other words, you cannot intervene by calling something "bad" without mentioning how you want it. My first question to the Minister is: has this been adequately regulated? The next question is: is citizenship only about education or also about the behaviour of a driver? Mr. Chairman. Then we'll get to the current law. It increases the powers of the Minister to intervene. I have some questions about that. First of all... If it is now clear what can be expected of schools, then intervention on these grounds is possible under the current law, I ask the Minister. Is the change of law only necessary because it must be possible to intervene in times of file-building? Or is there something else going on? Second. The Council of State had a lot of comments on the original law of former Minister Slob. It would give far too much room to intervene on the basis of relatively small suspicions. The law was then adapted and made clearer and stricter. It has already been referred to by several parties. In the last few weeks, it's turned back to the way it was. Why did that happen anyway? I agree with the questions that GroenLinks had about this. It'll save us some time. My question is as follows. I am on the point of rapid intervention, because that of course affects the freedom of education. Should I now believe the Minister on his blue eyes that he would not intervene too early, almost unconstitutionally? I saw Humberto Tan on TV yesterday. I have to say, I'm not sure it's absolutely true. I trust this minister, but should I, in the hypothetical case that there will ever be a minister with too much ambition, too little intelligence, an extreme tendency to act and a great deal of publicity and public opinion, be afraid of premature intervention, incident politics and much collateral damage? An emergency brake can be used in extreme distress. I do not want to run the risk that there will ever be a minister who, as a hyperactive engineer, drives a fast-tracking train, who with one hand continues to throttle and with his other hand is on the emergency brake, ready to pull when a group of activists screams from behind the train. It's just gonna cause big, big accidents. I absolutely want that out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u326	I was just in my head getting the graphic design of the train metaphor around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u327	Nice one, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u328	I'll chew on it. I have the same question as Mr Peters in my contribution: you make laws for longer than one ruler; how do you ensure that there are checks-and-balances? But when it comes to trust in a future govern ment: what about confidence in the education inspector? The education inspector, whatever minister there is, ultimately provides the basis, the research, the inspection report, on the basis of which action may be taken by the minister. That's what Mr Peters shares with me, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u329	Sure. I've read that, of course. I trust the Minister. I trust this minister. I also trust the education inspector. But I also trust our own panic. I just know that if something happens again tomorrow at a school, a large part of the Chamber will be screaming with a skirmishing voice: 'Dear people, this must be dealt with immediately'. Then there will be a motion that says: Minister, I want you now to order the inspection to investigate that school under this law and then to intervene immediately. Those things are gonna come. I don't want it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u330	Now it's going crazy. We are talking about this law because the Chamber has said several times: Minister, we want you to intervene. Then the Minister rightly said: there is no law, but if you table a motion... I believe there are ten motions that have been passed that are about incorporated into this law. Next, the law will be here and then Mr Peters says "I do not want a law to be passed on the basis of which immediate action can be taken', while that law is here because we, as a Chamber, all of us, including the CDA, have said that it must be passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u331	That reasoning is only partially valid. Of course, I want action to be taken when structural things go wrong in a school. It should be possible. That's what I started. My point is that we are acting on the basis of incidents here in this Chamber. So we do that on the basis of a one-time thing, not on something structured. That is what has been removed from the law with this amendment. On the basis of one incident, we say to the Minister with a skirmishing voice: send in the inspection and then we go on. I don't trust ourselves in that. I also want to rule out the possibility that a minister, not this minister, will do so in the future with a great deal of drama, because that is simply not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u332	Mr Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u333	That security deposit's in the inspection, isn't it? Don't tell me there's a lot of people out there looking for a reason to put a padlock on that school. They do their job conscientiously all year round, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u334	I understand that, but if we have a newspaper report here that says that there has been an incident at school A, an urgent debate will be requested here tomorrow. Then there can be intervention and you send or I send or one of us...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u335	Mr Van Meenen probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u336	Mr Van Meenen is most likely. Under this law, it sends out the inspection. Then that is the headlines and then the damage has been done, without the inspection having had a great deal of attention first. Those are the headlines. I don't want that. I think that's exactly what's gonna happen. That is why I have clearly asked for this. I do not think that we should listen to what the Council of State has said with the changes that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u337	It doesn't have to be a competition. I see that Mr De Hoop has a question and Mr Van Meenen allows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u338	I cannot escape the impression that there is a bit of a break in the coalition right now. The CDA, too, is now saying that it has fundamental objections to the second letter of amendment, in the sense that it can lead to you taking that step even faster. Mr Peters says he has a problem with it, even if there is an ambitious minister. We can say a lot, but this minister is also very ambitious. There is little we can say about that. Could you go into that "non-structural" more specifically? It's definitely in there now, with that "reasonable suspicion." Where's your fear? How do you think the Minister can take that fear away from you, should those letters of amendment exist within this law? What is the consequence of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u339	That's an excellent question, if I may review it. What we want Chamberwide is perfectly clear, I think. We want to be able to deal with serious abuses, and if that is not the case with the current legislation and regulations, then we need new laws and regulations. There's gonna be one. That is also in the coalition agreement, and that is fine. That's part of the guarantee. On serious suspicions of abuses that persist for a while, we send the inspection. The inspection looks and then there can be intervention. That's how it should be, that's how I want it to be and that's how it should be. We should not deal with it in such a way that it almost happens on an incident basis in the event of a reasonable suspicion. I'll ask the Minister if I read it correctly. Is this how this is gonna happen? If it's not gonna happen like this, what does it look like? Those are the serious questions I have. Can this Chamber indeed, by means of a motion, instruct the Minister or the inspection to go to any school where a random incident with any pupil has taken place? In such a case, could the Chamber order enforcement to the Minister under this law? I do not think that is desirable and nobody really wants it, I think and I hope. So I'm gonna ask the Minister what this is gonna look like. What kind of cases are those? What are the guarantees? How are we going to prevent us from doing incident policy here even more than we sometimes do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u340	So, if I understand correctly, the CDA, in the event that the Minister is unable to take care away, can draw the consequence of not supporting this broadening of the Minister's instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u341	Bright is: I want a law that will allow for intervention when something is going on in those schools. That is the coalition agreement, but so would I if it were not a coalition agreement. I have also said here, well, that was my predecessor, Mr President, that I wanted to be able to intervene. So I want the instruments to be there. It's supposed to be there. But I don't want us to go into incident politics here. I'm afraid that might happen after all. I think those notes of amendment will increase those opportunities. I just want that fear removed. I'll have the Minister do that in a minute. Then hopefully I'll be persuaded. If he can't convince me, we're having another conversation. It's that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u342	Appreciate the contribution of Mr Peters. I do not think anyone wants incident policy, not in the sense that Mr Peters is describing it now: we are reading something in the newspaper and we are standing at the interrupting microphone in the afternoon. Apparently, I'm the one who's gonna file a motion. I don't know why that is, because I think we've all found the same thing about every case we've discussed today. Anyway, I'd be happy to take that responsibility. That's the incident policy I don't want. But something else is going on, and I hope Mr Peters agrees with me that as an abuse of the powers of the administration, an unsafe situation for pupils, are not yet structural, the most dangerous thing to do is not to intervene. I do not think that Mr Peters, a major subject for him, is saying: we are going to wait another year to see if this child is really being abused. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think there are two crucial points in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u343	You're spreading out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u344	I'm really coming to my question. One point is about structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u345	Mr. Van Meenen, I really want to urge you. You have done 12 interruptions and asked 34 questions. It'll take you a long time to get to your question. You're spreading out. I would urge you to ask your question with a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u346	Does Mr Peters agree with me that'structural' can also mean that there is an unsafe situation for too long? And for the other point, that'serious' or 'not serious', I understand. I think the Minister should explain when we come to the border of serious or not serious. In my view, these are the two main points made by Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u347	If something doesn't go well at a school, an incident, then we have the education inspection for that. He's gonna look over there and intervene. That's the way. That's the way it should be. He intervenes and says, "I don't want it like that." Mr Van Meenen has already tabled enough motions to ensure that the inspection is carried out. That should be the order. If it turns out that nothing is happening or that it is structural, the Minister will get a signal. That's how I see it. Then he says: look, I've got a school here that doesn't cooperate with improvement plans and where it's structurally unsafe; you now have a toolbox, you take action. That's how I want it. I'm so afraid it's gonna be the other way around, somewhere in the paper someone's gonna say, "I'm gonna get nasty at this school." We are all inclined to make an incident very big. Then we are taking the lead here with a motion asking the Minister to send in the inspection and nail those people to the cross. That's not the order. I see that risk getting much bigger because of these changes, and not only me, but also the Council of State. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u348	I would blame ourselves if, if we suspected a serious situation in which children's safety is at risk, we did not say'send the inspection'. But that's different than saying "and nail those people on the cross." Nobody's gonna say that, right? That's impossible, isn't it? The inspection can't do that at all. The inspection will examine whether there is such a serious situation. This law will allow the Minister to intervene immediately if this is observed. It's not us, it's the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u349	I'm not saying the inspection's gonna do that. I say that we are going to demand this and that it will be much easier if we remove the word'serious' and remove the word'structural'. It'll be much more likely. That is why I am very concerned about the changes that took place two weeks ago. I'm telling you, I didn't have them good enough at the time. I think that's clear. If the Minister can take away those concerns, I am satisfied and if the Minister cannot, I am dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u350	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Peters. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. Mr Bishop has a proposal to stop the debate on this bill and to ask the Education Council and, where appropriate, the Council of State for an opinion on the letter of amendment. Who's in favour of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u351	Mr. Chairman. I do not support that proposal, but I do have another proposal for a trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u352	I'm gonna take care of this first. No support from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u353	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u354	Who will support the proposal? The CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u355	I'm moving too fast now, Mr. Chairman. There are better plans than these. They will have to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u356	I'm just gonna tell you. Mr Bishop has made a proposal. If you have another proposal, it can be followed. So this is the proposal from Mr Bishop. Do I notice support from the CDA? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who will support the proposal? That's DENK and the SGP. The proposal has no majority and has not been adopted. Then Mr. De Hoop had another proposition. Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u357	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I had a different proposal for trial. We already have a nice debate on it, with a lot of questions to the Minister. In particular, there were many questions about the second letter of amendment. It seems to me to be a good way of getting a large part of the Minister's first-term reply in writing and of doing a part orally, as is the normal course of budgetary procedure. I propose that we proceed with the debate in this way, with a large part of the answer in writing. We are also doing some justice to the request made at the procedural meeting on written input. That seems to me to be the best way to pursue the process of this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u358	Do I understand correctly that Mr De Hoop is proposing to stop the debate, to ask for a written answer and to pick up the debate at any time? That's the case. Who is in favour of this proposal? It can just get to the microphone. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u359	Mr President, the Christian Union can support the proposal. A lot of questions have been raised. We received that letter of amendment two and a half weeks ago. I think it is good that we get the answers to the many questions that were asked in the first period and that they come to us in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u360	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u361	I think it would be good if we resumed treatment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u362	You're in favour. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u363	Yes, but I've heard Mr. De Hoop differently. I think Mr. De Hoop said, "A part can certainly be spoken in a moment." Some of them I would like to see in black and white, especially when it comes to those changes. I just want to know that what the Council of State and I are afraid of right now is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u364	That's clear. Mr De Hoop, I would like to ask you for an explanation, because perhaps Mr Peters understood your proposal differently than I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u365	Mr President, I would simply like to have most of the answers in writing. But I would also like to have the debate on this within the first time. That's just like we do with budgets. Then you can also ask questions in writing and there will be a debate. So I would like to fill it out that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u366	That's clear. But then your proposal is different from Mr Peters's. I'm going back to your proposal anyway. It was supported by the Christian Union and the CDA. Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u367	Absolutely no support, Mr. Chairman. We can make this the standard practice: there are many questions asked in the first term, we have them answered in writing and then we are ready and we can go home. I think this is meant to have a debate. And there haven't been so many questions asked at all. If I had to summarize them, I wouldn't get any further than ten questions. These questions are very crucial, and the Minister has prepared for them. No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u368	Thank you for your detailed explanation. You do not agree with the proposal. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u369	Support for the proposal. It is not so much a question of the number of questions. That number is considerably more than ten. But it's also about the complexity of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u370	That's clear. Mr. Bishop, it also applies to you. The explanatory statement is fine in itself, but you are therefore in favour of the proposal. Mrs. Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u371	I am against the proposal. We're here to deal with the law. We're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u372	The VVD is against the proposal. Mr. Van Baarle, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u373	Mr President, if we stop the debate, ask for written answers and continue the debate in response to that written reply, I would be able to support it. In my view, nothing stands in our way but to make an urgent request to the Council of State and to involve it in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u374	That's a new proposal. I'm gonna interrupt you, too. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u375	No support for the proposal. Just wrap it up today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u376	Just wrap it up. Mr. Kwint, what do you have to do tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u377	That's an excellent question. I'd like something to eat anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u378	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u379	I have a bit of a doubt, because I am very much inclined to go along with a request made by colleagues to make careful legislation possible. But I also find it complicated to say that a minister has been given too many questions to answer, even before he has had the chance to get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u380	In short?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u381	After careful consideration, I am fine with giving the Minister a chance first and seeing how far he comes with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u382	This means that there is no majority in favour of Mr De Hoop's proposal. That means that we are going to suspend now, because we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs some time. I would also like to allow you to have a quiet meal, which is why I propose that we resume this debate at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u383	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Enlargement Act on administrative instruments for education (35920). We've arrived at the cabinet's response. I call the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education, Mr Wiersma. While the Minister is still preparing a little bit, I'll talk a little more time. I'll give the colleagues the following. If the answer goes very far, then we have the possibility to suspend the debate after the first period of time on the part of the cabinet. Then we can pick it up at another time. We're gonna look into it. I will perhaps make that proposal at some point. Then the Minister really has the floor. He's ready. I see all these folders. Take us with you. How are you gonna pick it up today in terms of intent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u384	Mr President, thank you. Here's what I'm gonna do. I would like to give an introduction to the legislative proposal, but above all to what is happening now, what we are trying to add to it and why that is the case. That's an introduction to the bill, but it's a pretty substantial one. Then I come to a number of cubes, where I zoom in on the elements in the bill. Element one is the systemic requirement and the long-term requirement. Element two is the emergency directions. Element three is security and citizenship. Element four is MBO and higher education. Then I have the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u385	Clear. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u386	In my introduction, the Council of State also passes. A few questions have been asked about this. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of April I spoke with students, teachers and parents of the School of Personal Education in Utrecht. As you know, there has been financial maladministration and poor governance there for years. I have to tell you, these conversations make quite a deep impression. Of course, you know it's wrong when you read about financial maladministration, but when you talk to the people who are actually the victims of it, you really feel what it means to them. The parents I spoke to were visibly emotional about the whole situation, also because it is a situation that their children are opposed to and grateful for. I get that. Because how can you bring your children to school with peace of mind if you can't trust them to get good lessons there, learn to respect our democracy and feel safe and free, whoever they are, wherever they come from or who they love? Unfortunately, the reality is that there are still schoolbodies who betray that confidence. I often think back to what played two years ago at the Avicenna College in Rotterdam. That is also mentioned here. Almost 1,000 students do not receive lessons there for days because teachers no longer felt safe from arguing between the board and the supervisory board. Mr. Chairman. You always earn good, free and safe education as an apprentice and teacher. That's the absolute basis. If there is, you can get the best out of yourself. If that base isn't there, we as a government need to act quickly, faster than we are now. That's all taking too long now. Then I am not talking about a lot of schools in the Netherlands that are doing their best incredibly. I am not talking about a lot of schools in the Netherlands doing their best but of course they can do a bit better and the inspection, which helps those schools, sometimes thinks something about it. I am talking about the schools where something is going very badly and is being pointed out, but where the aid offered is either not accepted or sometimes too late. We are talking here, also with this bill, very specifically about schools where things are going very badly. At these schools, we cannot intervene properly if it is unsafe or if, for example, there is poor citizenship education. This means that sometimes children are given poor education for too long, feel unsafe or even have to deal with extremist ideas. This means that parents send their children to school with a knot in their stomach for too long, because they are not sure if they are getting a good lesson there. That has to be changed, and that requires this bill. With the bill, as a government, we can say more quickly: that's it, we're taking action. 'Cause that's what you deserve when you're teaching or teaching at a school. We do that in a number of ways. I'm gonna go see him in the cubes in a minute. But first, some facts about how it works now. In the current system, the investigation is in the hands of the inspection. It detects a violation and then usually follows a recovery order, within a certain period of time. At the end of this period of the recovery investigation you have a few options. Or there's no recovery. Then there will be a next recovery assignment if, for example, the board is already well on its way to carry out all the necessary improvements and a sanction would add little. It can't be another recovery order, it can't be a sanction. We have a number of variants of that. A suspension: only part of the payment is paid until the competent authority has terminated the infringement. As soon as that is the case, the funding will be paid out. So when that offense is over. The second option of sanctions is retention. This means that the right of funding or part of the financing......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Afterwards, the competent authority gets the full funding again, but they do not get the part of the funding that has not been paid. The third issue, which has been mentioned several times in the debate, is in a very serious situation. Then we're talking about a lead. The board disqualified. Then there is maladministration. It is a power to dictate how a competent authority should act. We have indeed had this case recently at the Foundation for Personal Education. And then what is maladministration, right now? In the current law, this is financial malpractice, serious negligence in ensuring quality and progress of education. To prevent the quality of the system from being compromised. It is also unjustified enrichment or unlawful action, including obtaining financial advantage in favour of itself, and intimidation or threat to personnel, pupils or parents by a director or a supervisor. What possibilities do we have with that? Recovery. Thus, an unlawful use of funds can be recovered. Termination of funding, if the learning outcomes lead to the judgment "very weak" and there is no improvement visible within one year. Or an administrative fine. That's failure to comply with the Law of Learning. For example, if you do not have the default registration in order, this can lead to an administrative fine. These are the instruments that we now have at our disposal. So what's it like about what's about to change? We all assume that schools will abide by the law. And that's not only a good behavior, it's also fulfilling all the requirements of the law. Those are requirements, also mentioned in this debate. These requirements constitute the funding conditions for educational institutions. So if the schools do not comply with the law, it is, as I said in the actual document, noted by the inspection. Then a report follows and usually follows a recovery command. Schools actually follow that assignment. To give an idea, there are an average of 600 recovery assignments per year for primary education and 300 for secondary education. Schools in most cases comply with these repair orders, so usually it is done afterwards. If that doesn't work, if the school doesn't want to meet the assignment, the inspection comes back and finds that the law is still being broken. This is noted in a report. The inspection notes this and writes it down in a report. For the record, between the first visit of the inspection to which the offence was first detected and the publication of the second report of the repair investigation, it is likely that and in many cases more than a year has passed. Exactly how much longer depends on the type of offence and also on its severity. But between the visit of the inspection and the publication of the report there are a number of months. And in practice, that period is soon even longer because that publication is often challenged in court. For example, we have seen this happen in the case of SvPO. It's been repeatedly challenged by the judge. And all the time we stand by and look at it, and bad education goes on for students. So with two visits, that is at least six months, plus the recovery period that still has to be provided. And when that second report is finally published, a suspension of funding can be imposed. You will understand that I find that too long if there is a risk that diplomas will be wrongly distributed, as happened, for example, at VMBO in Maastricht, if there is actually no more education, for example at Avicenna, or if the safety of students cannot be guaranteed, what happened at SVES. So what do we add to this bill? Extend the definition of "maladministration" with regard to quality. Technically speaking, the B ground for maladministration is being extended in all sectors. The system requirement expires. And "long-term" in relation to the quality of education is added. It is clarified that the poor conclusion of the exam can now also be a ground for maladministration. The example here is the exams at VMBO in Maastricht. In addition, the possibility is added to provide an urgent warning in the event of a breach of a requirement of correctness which gives rise to a reasonable presumption of maladministration and which is also a matter of urgency. And then there is a duration of up to six months, with a possibility to extend that once. That is a provisional measure, therefore, without definitive consequences, because the emergency notice leading to the dismissal of a driver is not allowed. In the end, a definitive indication must also be given. Reasonable conjecture - I shall come back to that in detail in a moment - there is a likelihood that, on the basis of facts and circumstances, an investigation to be carried out will also give rise to the judgment of "maladministration'. And there is an urgent need if the consequences are serious if no action is taken. The law even says "very serious." I will explain this in a moment. And we are extending the definition of "maladministration" to include security and citizenship, also mentioned. So these are serious social, psychological or physical damage to one or more pupils, or acting contrary to the citizenship mission. And further, we expand the grounds for termination. Failure to comply with a designation on security or citizenship may lead to termination of the funding. It is good to realize that this is not about a lot of schools. In order to give you an image, I outline the following. We started in 2010 with the Good Education Act, good governance. So we've been on it for 12 years. How many schools have been in that period where that clue was playing and there was big hassle, where that recovery assignment did not ultimately lead to improvement and where the board was apparently unable to carry out that recovery assignment? There have been a number of cases with such schools and some of them have ended in the meantime. The CHL has been mentioned. That's where the judge destroyed it. We've had the matter with the Foundation for Personal Education. There I had eight plans for termination, but I did not make them final because the board eventually went over. But I mention here: that took many years, and actually it took far too long for children. We also had a case with a school community on Bonaire. There was a plan there, too. At that time, the administration was so shocked that the situation was improved. That's why we didn't have to give a definitive lead. There was Vahon, Hindu education. There was also a plan there. It was there, among other things, about student transport. That's where it's improved in the end. And I mentioned SVES. There the plan was finally issued, but then withdrawn because there was a significant improvement at the time. So you can see we're very careful. If there's anything going on, the inspection will find out, so not me. Next, restore commands are followed. There is a risk that, given the seriousness of the situation, it will often take too long in time than there is a risk that it will not be careful now. And you shouldn't lose any of that care either, because it is quite right. But I mentioned Avicenna, a number of you mentioned it in Maastricht and a number of examples have been mentioned, where there was something going on and where there was actually an acute problem. There was also an acute observation that the problem could not be solved by that administration at that time. But there was a very long period of time. 'Cause I can give you a lead, but that's a plan. That's not a clue yet. You have six weeks to appeal. Then you can go back. I have another point of view after that. Then you can appeal again. It could go over six months. If the exams aren't in order, but you do get a diploma, you'll look pretty when you apply to an employer afterwards. That's what we pull the emergency brake for. We'll tighten it up with this bill. A number of questions have been asked. I'll deal with two general questions first and then I'll come to the Council of State. Questions have rightly been asked about this. For example, the following questions were asked. What about the advice? What choices did the Minister make in that regard? And how are we supposed to see that? Mr Bishop asked about the reduction of time limits. That could be a very targeted measure. He asked, "Isn't it wise to do that first?" It is indeed wise to do so first. This bill will do the same. We're going to arrange for the shortening of this bill. In any case, the date of publication shall be five to three weeks. On the basis of the coalition agreement, we are looking to shorten a number of other deadlines quickly. So we take that suggestion to heart. We have included some of them in this bill. Mr Bishop had another general question. He asked: what does the coalition do with the fact that all sector and profile organisations, from public education to special education, are opposed to this bill? Doesn't that mean anything? That is why I also wanted to stress at the beginning that we are talking about a very, very small number of schools. As far as I'm concerned, those schools aren't here. That's the purpose and deployment of the whole system, with everything. That goes well in a lot of cases, but where things don't go well, it usually goes very quickly, very wrong. We know the position of the sector organisations. They represent directors and directors of the institutions. I can imagine that the organisations find a stronger role for the inspection and the minister quite exciting. I can understand that. At the same time, of course, it is a matter of great social importance. Those who do this in good faith should not be told all the time in public opinion that things seem to be not going well. If the inspection sees that you're doing your best and giving a good judgment, that smoke is gone. That system works. If there is smoke, then we need a law that makes it clear where to put out. If you can't do that, there's a risk that a fire will start, with all the consequences. By the way, it is often a political fire, with all the consequences. There will then be major discussions, for example on Article 23. Parties fear that. However, I believe that this legislative proposal is the correct way to do this. We shouldn't pretend it's about freedom of education. It's about something that's not right. That's what we want to do. That's what we do for the benefit of the students. Then I come to the Council of State and the amendments to the bill. I'm a new ruler. There's a proposition. This proposal is also endorsed in different terms in the coalition agreement. I think I need to see whether a proposal is good, whether it complies with the agreements and whether it is going to mean something in practice for the students who need it very much if they need it. I think it makes sense to ask carefully and see which options are still possible to maintain free and safe education. At a time like this, I ask the officials in the Ministry: what options do we have to do that? Yeah, there's a bill. That's a copy of the previous minister's. On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, he has made some adjustments to that. That bill is a fact. I think it is up to me to check whether that is sufficient, whether it corresponds to what is in the coalition agreement and whether it is going to work in practice. I think I should be able to make that choice. I need options to assess whether we can do that. What other options are available? That overview has landed in a note. That's what officials are giving advice on right away. That is very helpful and helpful. That is also an opinion on whether and, if so, when the proposal should be passed by the Council of State again. After a good discussion, I finally come to the reversal of the word'serious' and the removal of the word'structural'. Given only proposals that have already gone to the Council of State, which knew the Council, such as'serious' and'structural'.................................................................................................................................................................................................. We have brought those changes back to what was already there. The Council of State has provided an opinion on this proposal. On this basis, the Ministry has made a number of adjustments. Then I came in and asked: what options are there to tackle the issues we want to do, in line with the coalition agreement? All kinds of options have come out of that. I did not include the far-reaching options, on which the opinion was that they should be referred back to the Council of State. I've ignored it, you might say. Let me give you a few examples of this. So they weren't taken over. So the options already known to the Council of State have been brought back into the proposal. Just to be safe, we did another legislative test at JenV. It's mandatory under every law. We have done this again in order to check whether this makes it necessary for the Council of State to look at it. At that time it was stated that a new course to the Council of State is no longer necessary. That came out of the legislative test because it was not a major change. Then specifically about the passages contained in the documents, in the decision note. On page 3, it says: about major changes, advice will have to be sought from the Council of State. That's perfectly right. Only, the changes we reversed in the bill were not covered by the major changes that still had to be made to the Council of State. After all, the Council of State had already seen it. Then what is it about? You can see that. In the annex there is a whole inventory of some parties that can still benefit from what else could be done. An example of this is an indication of safety. Then we need an opinion from the Council of State. Another example is designation of citizenship. That's a further lead. Then we need an opinion from the Council of State. It also states, for example, that there is a reasonable presumption of maladministration, which can be considered without the opinion of the Council of State. With that option list in hand, we have come to the conclusion that we need to make a new legislative proposal if we want to amend further, then we need to go to the Council of State. We have said: let us not do so, but let us stick to the changes that were already in it earlier; let us refer them to the Chamber so that we can have a good debate on them. I think we have that same thing with each other in the first term. I think this is wise, too, because there are choices to be made. But I have not therefore made any far-reaching choices which are subject to major changes which should be revisited by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u387	Clear. On this point, there is an interruption by Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u388	Your Excellency, I understand very well that you say: once Minister Slob brought a piece to the Council of State; the Council of State has concluded that that was not okay, so that will be concluded now. I understand you don't have to ask twice. But my question is, in fact, what reason has the Minister chosen to say: I have to put it back to what it was like at all. Then I would like to know at the beginning what problems the Minister sees that he cannot solve with the amended proposal as originally proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u389	That's a good question. It'll be back in a block in a minute, but I'm going to give an introduction to that answer. Then I'll go to the cubes. This is a fair question. I'm telling you, my goal is this. In those few cases where things go well, we see too often that you can argue for a very long time about what goes wrong, that the judge chooses long trials and that the sanctions that we can impose often end with financial sanctions. The risk of this is also what I saw in the case of SvPO, who already had a 15% financial sanction to make it a sinking ship. You're going to turn the button on the money all the time, but the real solution stays out because a driver initiates procedure after procedure all the time and then basically everyone at that school is already a little bit afraid of themselves. That was also the case here. When I spoke to those students a few weeks ago, which I spoke about at the beginning, there were still a number of people on the participation councils not convinced and neither were the school leaders. They said we're behind the driver. I've had a lot of conversations. I sent the clues. I have had more talks, or my officials in particular, many thanks to them for that. That has been done very carefully and it has finally been possible to get the school leaders and the participation councils all united behind that choice. But it would be a shame that this would have such serious consequences for students if this man had chosen to initiate a procedure anyway. We can see that this quality is very weak and I had to threaten to take full account of the funding. Then you can put it off for months while everyone feels it's not right. Then I think I should make a bill that I'm convinced at least in those cases where things are really wrong, you know you've got something. I asked out that option list because I doubted and because I know how difficult these discussions have been over the past few years. In the case of the case SvPO I also saw myself having doubts. You can keep it for a long time with qualifications that it's not serious enough, and you name it. If an inspection shows that over and over again and gives repair command after repair command, then at some point the size is full. The last thing I could do is go to court for some kind of dismissal because of misconduct, but it can't be because the lawyer says: no, you have your own instruments to finish first. Our instruments can end for a long time, creating a sinking ship for a long time, but not doing anything good for those students. I think sometimes you need to force it faster. I have in this law the instruments that serve that purpose. My predecessor, Mr Slob, has not chosen to do so for nothing. You put that in a lot? No, you don't bet that much. That's not the point. Hopefully even less often, if you have them available. But I made the decision myself whether this is going to work in practice. That's the test I took. I will now come to a number of points in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u390	Sure, but I thought this answer was pretty comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u391	You're right about that. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u392	Then I would like to ask whether the Minister can tell us whether he is not just addressing the question of whether there is a need to speed up, because I understand that he wants to be able to intervene more quickly in the next block. But I am particularly concerned with the word'serious'. Is he gonna do that in that block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u393	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u394	Then you don't have to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u395	A less in-depth question on the main points. I understand the sense that the Minister is addressing, because these situations are extremely poignant. But the Minister could also have taken the route of saying that we shall first proceed with the original proposal. That is already quite an extension of the instruments. After a year, the Minister would have noticed that the instruments had not gone far enough, and then he could have taken that step. That could perhaps have been a more careful route, also in view of that advice from the Council of State. Why didn't the Minister choose this somewhat more cautious route here, because you already have a decent extension of your instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u396	Firstly, there are at least seven motions which are far less cautious than the legislative proposal that is now before us. On March 14, 2019 there was the motion of the member Westerveld, the motion of the member Rog, Van Meenen, Heerema, Bruins..all in two weeks' time......................................................................................................................... On March 14, 2019 there was a motion by Jasper van Dijk, a motion by Jasper van Dijk and Rudmer Heerema, a motion by Jasper van Dijk and Kiik. On 14 March 2019 there was also a motion by Mr Bishop. Extensive motions. Really far-reaching motions. I believe that I must do justice to the feeling of the Chamber, not only when there is an incident, but also when we take stock of each other in the heat of the battle, that what we have at our disposal may not always work. Then I think I should tell the Chamber, and that is a matter of substance, so I'm going to explain why I choose the options in such a bill. The Chamber is free to choose something else in a moment. I think that's sincere. But that also means that if I have a case as a ruler where I think I need these instruments, then the Chamber has chosen a different instrument. That's the right of the Chamber. In my view, I am making a proposal which, in my opinion, could be followed up. I understand the sensitivities, and that is why we are going to deal very carefully with all the points raised in the Chamber. I've got all night and all night. The chairman said we could also suspend. That is possible, but good substantive treatment also means that you give each other all the time you need. I have all the time and I want to take it, because I know this is a sensitive discussion. But I am just saying to the Chamber: precisely because the discussion on Article 23 is so sensitive, we must allow ourselves to have very good instruments, so that we do not spend every week in the cup of Article 23 and end up in a trenches war over an amendment to Article 23. That goes on for years, and no one in education has been helped with that. We can now do something for education, but then we have to weigh it very well and carefully. Then words matter, and that is what we are going to consider in this debate. I have some answers to that that I'm about to share with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u397	Clear. Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u398	Obviously. I understand it very well, too. It is not for nothing that I am the author of an amendment to Article 23, because I would very much like us to deal with this. The motions which the Minister refers to have also been tabled by Mr Kwint on the occasion of the debate on the Cornelius Haga Lyceum. But the Council of State's advice came after those motions. So that brings some nuance into this. I understand the Minister and I'm curious about the deeper explanation in the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u399	He's gonna be here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u400	I'm gonna start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u401	No, before you start, Mr. Secretary, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u402	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u403	The Minister has just said in many words why this law is needed and why an extension of the instruments is needed. What I do not hear the Minister say now is why the law that has been proposed to the Chamber before and which we have dealt with together would not be enough in this form to deal with the problems. What problems can the Minister not solve with that law in hand, which he can solve with the law he has now proposed? I am really looking for the Minister's answer. Can he make that insightful?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u404	I have made a different weighting, based on the coalition agreement, but also on the cases we know. By the way, the weighting that I have made is the same as the one my predecessor originally made in this legislative proposal. He needed this in order to be sufficiently sure that in cases where that is really necessary, you do not have a long discussion.That's just what we're trying to avoid right now about what does and doesn't fit into the law. Look, if a board of good will is, you'll never have this discussion. Then you don't need this law either. With all these recovery assignments, we can see that most of the boards are always of good will. Sometimes they startle from a clue, sometimes threatened with a clue. So we're probably never gonna get into that situation. But in a VMBO Maastricht or Avicenna, where everyone is confused and no one is directing, we must be able to take control and say: there must now be a new administration that is going to create order in chaos. You can't do that if everyone's in trouble with each other. Then you can wait for weeks until the misery of the other is solved, while the misery of the students continues. I have made the weighing that you need a good toolbox for that, but also a careful process. The due diligence of the trial is not affected. So the inspection is in the lead for that trial, not me as minister. And if it's up to the inspection, I think we should help her to the maximum, so that if she really sees smoke somewhere, she doesn't have to wait until it's a big fire. That is a reasoned statement of reasons. I will explain in a moment how specific and careful these reasons are. I'm sure I can get you into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u405	We'll see. I look forward to the very concrete answer to my question, because I have not yet received it. I also ask the Minister to respond to the criticism that has emerged from the field of education. This criticism is that it is a major power, that the letter of amendment gives the Minister a substantial, substantial extension of powers. The officials themselves also reported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u406	No, that's not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u407	The VO Council, the PO Council, the universities and the sector organisations: they all indicate that there is a fear of incident policy, that this can play a role. I therefore ask the Minister to respond to this criticism and to the criticism of the sector organisations which say that there is a conflict with Article 23. I think it would be good if the Minister did the same in this debate. These are the concerns that live in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u408	First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether he had already packed this question in one of the blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u409	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's all coming along. I think that's more convenient. Here's what I'd like to say. I'll explain what I said no to. Mrs Van der Graaf may not have done it consciously, but she stressed that my officials would have said that these were major changes that should be submitted to the Council of State. That's not correct. That's not correct. You're gonna have a look. I just explained. There's a whole list of changes. You can look for the table. It supports the fact that new radical changes which have not been to the Council of State must pass through the Council of State. On that basis, I have chosen not to add any further major changes. JenV's legislative test also said that it does not need to go through the Council of State again. My officials, moreover, have also made the weighting that is not necessary. This is only necessary in the case of major changes. This refers to a table that is there, with a lot of questions I have asked: could you do that any other way and what could you do there or there? That's gotten us an inventory. I would therefore like to make that quite clear. Otherwise, I find the insinuation quite annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u410	Mrs. Van der Graaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u411	I'm gonna feel the need to make things right for a while. I am also basing myself on the documents we have been given as Chamber of the Minister. This is the decision note which states: "Material means that your powers will be greatly extended (e.g. by deleting the word'structural', but also by extending the termination power). As a result, the Minister is not only able to intervene more often, but also that he can (much) be asked more often why he does not intervene." That's what I'm getting from the decision note sent by the minister. So that's what I'm talking about. He has been given far-reaching powers. So I'd like to make that right. I am based here on a decision note which the Minister himself sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u412	Clear. Short reaction to that, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u413	Well, then we'll just have to discuss it for a while. Then it actually stays as Mrs Van der Graaf says. The note where I base that on is about a... I can show it. There are MPs who have grown up here showing these pictures like this. I see people have them, too. But that's a whole table of options that have been mapped out. Those options have been mapped out that if you applied some of those options there, that would require a new weighting from the Council of State. On the basis of that list, I have considered not to choose such far-reaching options that a new weighting by the Council of State is necessary. Just to be sure, we checked that with the legislative test. That has been the conclusion. If I had used other options from that list, those would have been profound changes that would have had to go past the Council of State again. That's what my officials advised me to do. I would have followed that advice. Now they have concluded that this is not the case, as was the case with JenV's legislative test, because these changes have been seen before by the State Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u414	Mr. Van Baarle, probably on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u415	Yes, because I just want to understand it very clearly. We all have the same table in front of us. In particular, it concerns the deletion of the word'structural'. The Minister also added the word'serious' again, and the people at the Ministry had no comments on this: this is more important than what the Council of State saw. When deleting the word "structurally" it says they don't recommend it, because it changes the nature of a clue. A clue must be meant to give someone a chance to improve. You don't do that with the observation of one offense. There is a need for advice from the Council of State, with reference to 1. And that says again: because it is a radical change. That's how I follow it. So as regards inserting the word'serious', I agree with you; you do not have to go to the Council of State for that. But as far as the deletion of the word'structural' is concerned, it is not true that it was previously with the Council of State, if I base myself on the table. Then it is simply an extension of powers, and therefore advise the people at the Ministry to go to the Council of State. Do you share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u416	No, I don't share that. I understand what you're basing it on. I imagine that's what you think in this combination. I gotta tell you, if you're looking at this whole list... We are talking here specifically about the word "serious." No, you're referring to the word "structural." Sorry. Let's see. I do see: see 1. That's a clue about quality. The duration depends on the appointments, I read. As I understand it, that is a combination of a number of measures. I asked, "How can you further tighten the law?" Then there will be an official weighing. I cannot judge that either, but the weighting of officials is that you should go back to the Council of State. The officials just make a list like that. They do that to the best of their consciences. But then I asked for the following. If we don't do all that, so if we stick to the line that was already in the previous bill, so if we actually reverse it, does that require a new weighting from the Council of State? The advice was: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, other elements in that list do require that. I understand your question: how am I supposed to read it? It is also partly about the total and the combination of measures. Furthermore, I cannot assess exactly how my officials intended it. After that, I checked to see if I should send anything to the Council of State or not. To this is the answer from civil servants and JenV's legislative test not to do so. To be honest, I didn't think it was necessary if it was just in line with what the Council of State already knew. I am following a number of MPs who say that would be a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u417	In that sense, I think it is relevant because the Minister indicated earlier in his reply: if I had been advised to go to the Council of State with a section that has been amended, I would of course have done so. Now the Minister nuances that a bit by saying: you must...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u418	My officials didn't advise me to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u419	One moment, Mr. Secretary. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u420	There are two things that, as far as I am concerned, need to be made very clear. One. Was the word "structural" or not in the bill that went to the Council of State at first instance? The table drawn up by your officials states that the word'structural' is a major change. That implies that it wasn't in the first bill that went to the Council of State. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u421	Now I have to watch my words very carefully. I'm gonna have to check out exactly what's been going on there. I don't know now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u422	Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u423	But there were two points in that bill. I put it back in now. They went out after comments from the Council of State, and I'm bringing them back in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u424	Voorzi...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u425	I would like to make a comment to colleagues and the Minister. I'm trying to lead the debate right. It's okay if you speak when I give you the floor. If you speak again afterwards, it will lead to confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u426	I'm sorry to say this, but I think this is serious. The Minister just indicated that nothing much has changed about the bill, because it was all there at first instance when the Council of State saw the first proposal. Now the Minister states: whether that was in the first version, I do not know; I have to check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u427	No, that's lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u428	There must be clarity about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u429	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u430	... because if there are any extensions in the legislative proposal that we have now in relation to the first proposal that the Council of State has seen and on which the Council of State has advised, then we have a completely different situation. I hope we understand that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u431	That is not the case: these two elements were also included in the previous legislative proposal. The exact meaning, the words, I would then like to check just to be sure, so that I am fully aware of that. Otherwise, you're gonna say, "You just got that word wrong." But the scope, the line, was in that bill. I believe that one element has been added in line with the bill. This is about the discussion about 'long-term', but that is what Mr Bishop is about to come up with. But these words, this line of thinking, were in the initial bill. That was with the Council of State at the time. Then the Council of State gave advice. That's when it got out. Then a new ruler came along. It's made a new weighing. He's been asking out options. He has been given an overview and has made choices on that basis. It has chosen not to include any more far-reaching, far-reaching changes, unlike those already in line with what the Council of State knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u432	One moment, Mr. Van Baarle, you will have the floor in a moment. It wasn't clear to me. Mr. Secretary, you indicated first that you still wanted to find out. Is it true that you're now saying it was in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u433	That line's in, yeah. But I want to be correct in the Chamber. I don't have the first bill right now because I'm here defending the new bill. I'm going to ask my officials to put the exact texts next to each other to see exactly what's in there. Otherwise, my officials would also have advised something else. It would have been a major change. That is not the case. That is not what the legislative test has shown either. But let's just call it in just in case. Then you have the exact wording. I'll get it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u434	Fine. It's coming up at the end of the debate. Thanks for trying to figure it out. Then Mr. Van Baarle, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u435	Finally. I appreciate we're gonna figure it out. In this sense, the Minister's indication of "that direction, that line, was in it" is irrelevant, because the word "structural" is crucial in this respect. It's really about a word. It seems very clear to me that we are getting that sorted out, because that has implications for the assessment of the Minister's entire position, namely: it is nothing new. So I do like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u436	The commitment to this during this debate has already been made. Anything to add, Minister? Then I'm going to see Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u437	I'm gonna have a nasty feeling about it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u438	I haven't even started the block yet. Mr Bishop's questions are all still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u439	I'm afraid it's gonna get a lot worse. Colleague van Baarle, of course, has just one point. If there's any uncertainty as to what was and what wasn't in it... The Minister says something now, but let's talk each other out in the microphone and then have a conversation. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u440	That's what's gonna happen, because I turned off the Minister's microphone for a while. Then you can keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u441	Thank you. Why is the Minister so afraid, and are some coalition groups so, of a new judgment by the Council of State? Surely that would have made this whole discussion completely unnecessary? Then we'd know exactly what the flag is like. It's obvious. The argument is that nothing has been added and that what was removed has been put back and what was initially dissuaded by the Council of State. That argument doesn't add up. Why so head-on? There's no reason for that, is there? We want careful legislation, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u442	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u443	I have just explained that that argument is correct. I went through the whole list and talked about all kinds of changes that are on that list, which are very far-reaching and require new weighting from the Council of State. Then we said that we didn't really change what was originally the proposal, unless there was still a moving insight. Then I would like to have the original wording sharp for the Chamber. He'll be here any minute. But the line and its scope are as they have been seen by the Council of State. Then I understand that you say you want to hear something else, because the Council of State was very critical of that. I understand. But I'm about to defend why I made those choices. You have raised a number of valid questions. I'd like to have a chance to answer that in a moment. I have now given a general view of how it has been explained. You can ask about that a hundred times. Let's look at the exact wording. Then I won't cause any noise. I think that's important. But I think it is a little too excited to ignore all the questions I want to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u444	You will be given ample opportunity to answer questions. Mr. Bishop again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u445	Especially when it comes to a legislative process, the argument that it is in line with and the spirit of what the Council of State has seen is unacceptable. It comes to precise wordings, to precise phrases and precise locations of what is in it now. In addition, this decision runs counter to the opinion of the Council of State. I maintain that the question of why the Council of State should be bypassed in this process remains very unsatisfactory. Then you don't talk about careful legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u446	Clear. The minister's still waiting for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u447	No. Careful legislation is always very important, so I will always do my best to do so. I think Mr Bishop was the one who just suggested that the question was so complex that it could be better written. I have not even had a chance to answer Mr Bishop's questions. I don't get a lot of motivation either, because I don't think it makes any sense anymore. I'm gonna do it anyway, because I think it's important to the Chamber for the sake of care. But I would be happy if we looked at the answers to those questions. Then I'll do my best to serve that care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u448	Finally, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u449	Finally, Mr President. We are talking here about preliminary discussions, let me just say. They're not even close to the other questions I've asked. I find it worrying that the Minister says that he doesn't really feel like answering it anymore, but that he will. I don't think that's a good approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u450	I don't think that's a good summary of what I said either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u451	No, but I'm not so motivated...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u452	Now you're both no longer motivated. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u453	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u454	Mr. Kwint will still be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u455	Let's be courteous with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u456	I understand your comment and your feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u457	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u458	I have the impression that the Minister is really going to answer all the questions. That's what we asked him, and that's the right of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u459	It's the least he can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u460	I think the minister said he was gonna do that and it was all gonna come. But, Mr. Chairman, I'm still looking forward to it. I was just trying to follow what just happened. I think everyone is desperate now for the word "structural" in the original version, but it doesn't say that. That's exactly the point. "Structural" wasn't in it, then it came in and now it's not there. That's the point. It's not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u461	Look, Mr. Chairman. That's what the room's nestor sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u462	The Council of State objected to the fact that it wasn't there. It doesn't say it, so we don't have to look for passages where in the name of God the word "structural" is in the original version of Minister Slob. It wasn't there. Then Slob put it in and this minister takes it out again. So in that sense, it's exactly as it was. Stop searching for the word "structural" in the original version.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u463	Now I can imagine that the officials who are looking for it will deliver it to the Minister. We can also rely on what Mr Van Meenen says. He may have remembered that very well. I suggest we find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u464	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that was my goal, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u465	This is clearly the point. That's what the criticism is about. If you don't have "structural," it's too vague. Yeah, that wasn't in the original version the Council of State criticized. Minister Slob added that and this minister takes it out again. We don't have to look for passages or lines. No, it just wasn't there and it's not there now. Those are exactly the same lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u466	The debate is not with me, Mr. Van Meenen. I'm glad you're trying to convince me, too, but I'm neutral in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u467	I imagine it's confusing for a lot of people what's happening here. There was a very first draft of the law. He went to the Council of State for advice. The Council of State was critical of that. Afterwards, the bill was amended and sent to the House of Representatives. I'll just call that the second version of the law the Chamber has seen. It was in there. The Minister is now making a third version of the law with a letter of amendment. The point is that the Council of State was critical of that very first proposal. The Council has said that more safeguards are needed, because as it has now been written down, it is too broad-based and that is why the proportionality of this law is seriously under discussion. That's what it's about. The Minister who is now standing before us has said that I am moving aside all the criticism of the Council of State and I am going back to the original, very first draft of the law. That's what the critical questions are about tonight. The Council of State says that the law in that form is not proportional and that it has to be different. Why does this Minister put that criticism completely aside? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u468	Certainly, Mrs. Van der Graaf. This question has been raised several times in the Chamber's plenary contribution. I suggest that the Minister should answer it and give him some time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u469	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I think I have part of the answer to the first question. I'm gonna read it to you and hope it's completely complete. The Council of State was presented with the following extension of maladministration: serious or long-term failure to comply with Article 4c Security or Article 8 (3) Citizenship. In short, this included serious breaches of the duty of care for security or citizenship. The original text stated: "f, structural action contrary to the duty of care for security referred to in Article 4c, which leads or threatens to cause serious social, psychological or physical damage to one or more pupils, and Article g, structural action contrary to the citizenship mandate referred to in Article 8 (3) (a), which leads or threatens to seriously undermine one or more basic values of the democratic rule of law." Following the opinion of the Council of State, it was amended in the letter of amendment as follows: "f, acting contrary to the duty of care for security referred to in Article 4c, which leads or threatens to cause serious social, psychological or physical harm to one or more pupils, and g, acting contrary to the citizenship mandate referred to in Article 8 (3) (a), which leads or threatens to seriously undermine one or more basic values of the democratic rule of law." Then I have confirmation of the legislative test. The legislative test is agreed. As discussed, the letter of amendment, at its core, reduces the legislative proposal in certain areas to the form that the legislative proposal for the advice of the Council of State had. A limited extension is made to a single component. In view of this, I, like you, believe that there is no significant letter of amendment. That was a summary of the conclusion of the legislative test of the ministry of JenV. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the answer in the cube. That's what I wanted to try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u470	Mr. Van Baarle, did you have a question about the previous? I'd like something new. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u471	Just as enlightening, so I can get it right. I'm just a simple soul. The first version received by the Council of State did not contain the word "structural" and that was added by your predecessor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u472	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u473	And that's what you're getting out of now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u474	Yeah, that's right. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u475	That's how the trial went.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u476	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u477	Then I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u478	Yes, that's what Mr Van Meenen said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u479	I think I could have done it faster, but I wanted to do it correctly. I wanted to keep the exact wording as it says. I also know Mr Van Baarle very carefully. I hear saying, "If it's convenient." One miss is okay, but I wouldn't want to miss twice. So I wanted to do that carefully. I would like to thank my officials for this and also for having been able to share with you what the legislative test has said about this. I will, of course, do my best to give all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u480	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u481	I come to the first adjustment we are proposing. This concerns the system requirement and long-termness. Now it is true that I can only give weak schools a clue when the quality of the whole system of primary or secondary education is at risk. That's what we call the system requirement. In addition, this provision lays down that there must be serious negligence in taking measures to ensure the quality of education. This does not cover repeated or prolonged deficiencies in quality. That is why I am reducing the definition of maladministration on two points with this legislative proposal. Firstly, I propose that the system requirement for all sectors should lapse. This is particularly relevant for foundational education. For basic education, this is a very high bar. It almost never happens that too little quality in one school leads to a risk to the quality of, for example, the entire primary education system. This makes the clue far too difficult to use. Even in the event of very serious quality problems, the system requirement would stand in the way of an indication. That's just not in the interests of students. Secondly, I propose to all sectors that long-term negligence on the quality of education should also give rise to an indication. It cannot be the case that students and students are exposed to a slow decline in educational quality for a long time. With this law, I can give an indication to a board that, for example, has repeatedly failed to fulfil the remedial tasks to ensure the quality of education. In doing so, I will ensure that there can be no situation in which the quality of education in a school is constantly falling apart without me being able to intervene adequately. It may then be the case that an enforcement process needs to be started over and over again, with recovery periods, an opportunity and yet another intention. Sometimes you're years away. I do not want to accept that, and you do not want to accept it as witness to the many motions tabled by the Chamber. You can see that sanctions are often possible, but they are limited. In fact, sometimes they encounter opposition in the courts, because they affect the education that can be given. This way you can never intervene, and so students may spend three or four years in a very serious situation. Fortunately, that happens very rarely, but where it happens, it takes a very long time. You want to be able to do it much faster. A number of questions have been asked, among others by DENK, the Christian Union and the CDA, about the opinion of the Council of State and the question of why this has not always been followed. Mr Van Baarle also quoted in detail the opinion of the Council of State. In the further report and in the pleading, the question of why the opinion was not or was not followed was addressed in detail. Your questions are also focused on why I consider the legislative proposal in this form to be necessary and why I have not followed the Council of State in parts. The existing instruments did not work. It took too long for us to really intervene. And if we do an evaluation first, as requested, then that actually continues the impotence we have, because we cannot intervene. That's in a nutshell why we do it like that. Mrs Westerveld has asked: how do you compare non-compliance with one repair assignment with "long-term failure"? What kind of violations are you talking about? In failing to comply with a recovery order, only a financial sanction is now open, as I said earlier. In doing so, there is a build-up of sanctions: first, suspend, then include and suspend. Sometimes it is faster and more managerial than necessary, for example, if there are serious consequences for pupils or if there are serious consequences for them. Before a clue comes up, there's really something going on. There is an offence if, for example, there is long-term poor education, if a school fails to treat part of the curriculum or if a board fails to manage quality. You can now see that a clue in such cases cannot be given immediately. There is first a intention to appoint a time limit of a number of weeks and then another time limit. A long prayer, I'd like to say, with which students haven't been helped. Mrs Westerveld also asked: can the Minister give an example of an incident leading to a clue? In the last 12 years that the designation was part of the instruments, that designation was imposed once. That means I can't draw on many examples. In a case where this bill would have been desirable, I am thinking of VMBO Maastricht. We depended there on the cooperation of the board and with these new instruments I can therefore intervene without the cooperation of the board. And that's what I and your room think is important. Mrs Westerveld also asked: why does this bill not also adapt the instruments for non-cost education? "The Minister writes that he sees no bottlenecks for the administrative enforcement system." Unpaid education must also comply with the law, such as citizenship and social security. But there is a financing relationship and that is why there is another instrument in place there. The compulsory education law sets out the conditions for non-paid education to be able to comply with the compulsory education law. And the inspection oversees those demands. If a school no longer meets these requirements, school status can be deprived and compulsory schooling can no longer be completed. In fact, that means the end of school, and that is a means that can be deployed quickly if necessary. The MPs of the SP and GroenLinks also asked about the WNT standard. "What you earn above the WNT standard is not lawful and should be turned in. I'd like a comment." I couldn't agree more. Those standards are not for nothing either. That's why we're watching. The inspection also involves considerable capacity, and I agree with Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint that there should be no goat paths. It happens that a driving position is combined with the supervisory function. I understand the legislator's intention, because it increases and shares their knowledge and expertise. That is the argument that Mr Kwint mentioned. This could improve the quality of drivers in the semi-public sector. But at the same time, it's quite a complex subject to take here. There are many complex issues, such as the right of transition. That was in the amendment at first and then it wasn't. Coherence with other sectors is also an issue. But soon there will be a debate between the BZK Chamber Committee and the BZK Minister on the conclusions of the evaluation of the WNT and the content of the evaluation law, which is also in preparation. I will report and pass on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in accordance with Mr Kwint's point that, as far as I am concerned, the standard is the norm, without goat paths. I will also do my best to do so in that corner, and I will give this to you where the debate on this issue is taking place. Another question from Mrs Westerveld was: should not participation councils in general be given a greater role in the designation? The moment a clue is given, it's all hands on deck. Minister, inspection, parents, students and students are all on edge at that time. The first thing that must happen is to restore the unhealthy situation that has arisen. After that, in the aftermath, there will also be room for reconstruction. And, of course, that happens explicitly with parents and students. With the current rights, agreement and advice of the co-determination councils, I believe there is plenty of room for it, but I also intend, with the coalition agreement, to strengthen participation, whether it is a restoration after an indication or not. But as far as I am concerned, there will also have to be a place for the help of management and supervision in how this is done. If Mrs Westerveld has any suggestions for this, she can put forward an amendment herself or a motion. But I can follow the spirit. We shall take them into account in drawing up the plans for participation. Then there is the question of whether participations should have more to say about the appointment of directors and supervisors. I just said something about that. Mr Van Meenen asked: how does this law relate to the opinion of the Education Council? I assume that Mr Van Meenen refers to the opinion on Rule 23. I can hear him confirm that. Since Mr Van Meenen cited the opinion in relation to his wish to introduce a committee of social responsibility, I will respond to that. The opinion concludes that education legislation provides sufficient basis for defining the common core of good citizenship through the requirements of adequacy. The inspection may supervise this. The opinion also concludes that there are other bodies besides the inspection, such as the Human Rights College and the Public Prosecutor. According to the Education Council, the existing instruments are sufficient. There is therefore no need for a committee according to the Education Council. Mr Van Meenen needs a committee. That's what we're gonna talk about in a minute. Mr Kwint asked: can a governance that opts for a wrong teaching method be tackled? In accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, schools have freedom of direction and establishment. Part of this is that "schools are free to choose the means of teaching and the appointment of teachers." The inspection does not supervise teaching materials. It does not have the authority to do so, because there are no legal requirements on the means of teaching. However, if educational resources are applied in such a way that, for example, the social security of pupils is at stake or the citizenship mission is not respected, the inspection may indeed take action. This concerns the assessment of the education given and the way in which teaching materials are applied. So it is not about the content of the teaching materials themselves. But they are taken into account in the context. The prohibition or testing of educational resources by the government does not fit in with that idea. Mr. Chairman. The SGP asked: "The indication sees situations where a funding sanction is not the right means to achieve an improvement. Apparently, the Minister thinks that a funding sanction should be used first. However, that condition is not contained in the legislative proposal. Why is the requirement of subsidiarity not explicitly written down and set as a condition?" The principle of subsidiarity means that I should not use a heavier means if a lighter means can achieve the same result. In some cases, a financial sanction is not the right instrument. Inability or unwillingness of the board makes no sense. Of course, this also affects the students, sometimes quite serious. I therefore agree with Mr Bishop. But it is not necessary to regulate this, as this already follows from Article 3:4 of the General Administrative Law. Mr Van Meenen asked about unannounced visits. The motion mainly asks for those visits. Mr Van Meenen referred to this earlier. The research framework states that investigations of the inspection can take place both announced and unannounced. The inspection can do that under the law. It is therefore also part of the instruments of inspection. During the corona crisis, the inspection was able to carry out these visits only very limitedly. The type was not well executable with the uncertainty of the corona situation. The inspection will do so unannounced if it considers it necessary. She has informed me that she is making structural use of the instrument of unannounced research. In doing so, the inspection has looked closely at the impact of this intervention. I'm in the process of drawing up a letter on governance and supervision. I'll take as many numbers and insights as I can. Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint asked: did this law help with SvPO and Gomarus? At Gomarus, the inspection ordered repairs. That is and remains step one in the process. The board has now carried out the repair assignments. There is no need for further intervention, although we will, of course, keep an eye on the school. For example, I am speaking to Gomarus myself on Monday. If Gomarus had refused to act and to change his policy, I could have intervened with this bill. By the way, I would have been able to intervene in many cases with the current instruments. Social security and citizenship are explicitly maladministration in this legislative proposal. That is not the case now. So it would be more complicated with the current legislative proposal, and easier or, let me put it this way, faster. But very often it is not necessary, because driving sees this very well as a signal. They don't want to go on that path either. So it has an alarming function. In the case of SvPO, the inspection found that there was financial maladministration. Under both existing and future regulations, this is sufficient ground for a designation. I have therefore taken up your well-known intention to make a point of reference. However, the new law might also have provided an indication, because the administration of SvPO did not take sufficient measures to ensure the quality and good progress of education. After all, I propose that the system requirement be dropped. I suppose I could have intervened more quickly with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u482	One moment, Mr. Secretary. Some of us are not quite clear which block you are sitting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u483	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I'm in the system requirement and the long-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u484	That's block one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u485	Yeah, block one. Excuse me. Different kinds of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u486	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u487	I admit it's a bit of a search, with a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u488	No, no. Then that's clear. Are you at the end of the answer within this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u489	I think I've got four, five more. So almost, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u490	Shall we finish it then? Then I give the floor to Mr Peters, who has been waiting for a while, so I would like to congratulate him on his patience and then Mr Kwint. Finish block one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u491	Yes. Reasonable suspicion of social insecurity in the law. Structureal character lapses. Would this have broken up with Gomarus or similar incidents? For the case of Gomarus, it wouldn't have mattered much. At the time when the suspicion of insecurity arose, the inspection quickly intervened and the board then carried out the recovery orders. That's the regular order. It has been applied here and it has been successful here. If the board refuses to intervene, that's the other side of it. Then this law gives us much more in our hands to be able to take firm action. Then there is a request: why doesn't there be an evaluation clause in the law? Why isn't that done? Is the Minister prepared to look into that? I do not expect us to make huge use of the new powers, as I said earlier. So you might be wondering what that evaluation is going to do. But, of course, it is wise to carry out that evaluation, so I shall look positively at the amendment I will come to later on. Then the question about the Education Inspectorate not being admitted to the CHL. A question from the SP and D66. This law changes that. The inspection is always permitted, even if the visit has not been announced. What does that mean in practice at the moment? Will the police be called in? Is there always a report? Is the board getting kicked out? Access of the inspection to a school building is regulated by another law. That's the General Administrative Law Act. It lists the powers of supervisors. One of these powers is that an inspector may enter buildings if necessary for supervision, if necessary with the help of the strong arm. If the school doesn't have access, the police can be called in. Furthermore, cooperation in supervision can be enforced with, for example, a penalty payment. Non-participant supervision is also punishable. The inspection may therefore choose to make a declaration. Whether the inspection actually does so depends on the actual facts and circumstances. It's very rare. However, non-cooperation in monitoring cannot lead to an urgent indication, as the designation is linked to the definition of maladministration. Then we must also be careful in the law. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion for a resolution on banning declarations of identity? You will receive a letter on this subject before the summer. I will go into detail on your motion and the related motion by Mrs Gündoğan. In view of the fact that this debate is still ongoing, I am going to look closely at the connection between these motions and this debate. A question from the SP: is it true that a driver is not allowed to apply for funding for a new school? With a lead, a driver can't start a new school for five years. In this example, there is no formal prohibition for the driver to apply for the funding of a new school. I do think you should be careful with de facto a professional ban. In this case, I would be most surprised if the director founded a new school. But you never know, says Mr. Kwint. And he's right about that. So if he's got any ideas for that, we're gonna discuss it. Why does a director have to appoint his own successor? Because there is no employment relationship with the school. That would also interfere too far with the autonomy of the school. Therefore, the Minister may not enter into the statutory power of the legal person to suspend or dismiss directors or internal supervisors with a designation. This is in line with a number of comments made by your members who attach importance to that statutory competence. In other words, the legal person........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the Minister may instruct the legal person to replace one or more directors or supervisors. The Minister shall have the option of taking a financing measure if that designation is not followed. The SP also asked: to what extent does the Minister believe that designating a new administration for SvPO solves all problems? There will be a written consultation on this issue, so we will see that question in that too. I'll say something about it here. A five-headed government has now been deliberately chosen. That's pretty big, you might say. The new board members are complementary to each other and also have a lot of experience. However, I recognise that a great deal of work needs to be done. The board started that with a lot of energy. They are very motivated to restore that quality so that education gets back in order and students get what they are entitled to. But it's a big job and there's still a lot going on. There's still a lot of money miraculously... Well, not that much money yet... Mr. Kwint said over 20 million. That's right. The Board shall draw up a recovery plan. We've still got some complicated administrative stuff going on with reports. So we're not getting rid of this, but the important thing is that these students get back to education. I indicated earlier that if the driver did not quit, that would have significant consequences, at least for the location in Utrecht. I think it is important for these students to know that they will be able to go to school next year and that we are now trying with fresh strength to get that education back there as soon as possible. Moreover, it is true that the inspection does, of course, carry out continuous research, including research into the quality of the particular establishment. I expect we'll have an insight into that around the summer. This is a very important step for me and for the students. We must be able to look at this education again with good courage. There is also a question: can your problems always be straightened out with a new administration? Isn't there something wrong with the concept? The Minister is not about the concept. The inspection shall assess the quality. This will be strictly enforced by the inspection, including with the new administration. And so there's another report coming up. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of this block. I admit you may be thinking, which block was it again? But so many questions have been asked, and I want to answer them all anyway. So it's getting a little mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u492	Clear. Carefulness is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u493	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u494	Mr. Peters, you've been at the interrupting microphone for about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u495	That's right, Mr. Chairman. And I'm afraid my interruption is about the beginning of this block, so I hope people still understand a little bit about what it was about. I understand the Minister wants to speed things up. That is the word I find appropriate to this minister. He sees an injustice and wants to deal with it a little quickly. I'm gonna go with those two words we were talking about at the beginning. If you answer my question correctly, I'm done with the interruptions. I am concerned with the words'structural' and'serious'. They weren't in there, after the Council of State, and now they're not. Why not? Because you want to be able to act quickly. You can define "fast" and "fast" in two ways. The first one is about time. You want to be able to intervene quickly in time. My point is that the opposite of "structural" is "incidental." And the opposite of "serious" is "not so serious." So I'm not so afraid of it if you want to intervene quickly in time. It would be nice if you could do that. I am afraid that you will want to 'quickly' intervene, including in the case of incidents which are 'not so serious'. It's possible. That is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u496	Clear. Why was "structural" taken out? You can interpret "structurally" in different ways. There may be a violent incident at a school, but there is no history of incidents at that school. The VMBO in Maastricht is an example of this. There was a lot going on with school exams. You could say, couldn't we have seen that before? Part of the criticism focused on that. But if a board can't or doesn't want to act after a violent incident, I need an instrument in my hands. In this case, we are very dependent on the flexibility of our officials, on the goodwill of the administration in the question of whether there is any cooperation at that time. In the future it will apply: if there is cooperation, there is fear, there is a signal, there is the alarm bell, and there is cooperation. Then there's nothing to worry about, there's a recovery order and nothing to worry about. But in the event that a government does not want to cooperate in such a violent incident as that in Maastricht... I would say that in the event of a serious incident, every serious incident is one too many. In such a unique situation, you could say that a board disqualifies itself. So this is based on a situation as we saw at the VMBO in Maastricht. We didn't see anything before that, and suddenly there's a very violent situation. If the administration is not in a position to resolve that, then in such a case such a government would disqualify itself with this new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u497	You say, "a serious incident." So this is a serious incident that nobody wants to do anything about. It's an incident, so it's not structural. My point is that we have taken out both the word'structural' and the word'serious'. When both of those words are gone, I'm not talking about a serious incident. I'm not talking about a serious pattern. I'm not talking about a pattern that's not serious. I'm not talking about either. I'm talking about an incident that's not that serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u498	I'll get them together. I also have to answer the second part of the question. Why is "serious" replaced by "reasonable"? You want a powerful toolbox. In the previous cases, we have seen that it quickly becomes quite legal. Words such as "serious" or "reasonable" make a difference in the legal balance. The legislator often chooses the word "reasonable" by law. In the interests of the quality and safety of education, we have therefore chosen to replace'serious' with'reasonable' so that inspection can be quicker if there are signs of maladministration. Let me be clear: it is essential that the inspection finds maladministration. The inspection shall consider it objective and independent. In an extreme case, in an extreme situation, the detection of maladministration on the basis of this law qualifies to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u499	Finally, Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u500	I understand what the Minister says and means, but I think it's about something else. Is it a matter of rapid intervention in terms of time or is it a matter of rapid intervention in terms of patterns? I think that's where the crux is. I'd like to think about that. I may, of course, say that I will, but perhaps you can add a few more words to it. I don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u501	Please speak through me, Mr. Peters. Would the Minister care to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u502	There may be a very violent incident at a school, but there may also be a school without history of incidents. With the law proposed by Mr Peters, the interpretation can then be that if a government does not want to cooperate, there is reason to wait longer until there are incidents. What if the incident is really bad? The inspection does not simply establish that there is maladministration. If they determine that, you want that opportunity. Anyway, that's in case the board doesn't cooperate. I am looking for exactly what Mr Peters' concern is. I think he's worried about incident policy. That's what I heard him say. The House of Representatives often goes crazy with everything that happens. Mr Peters does not want a motion calling on the Minister to give an urgent message. He does not want all kinds of responsibilities to be laid down by law with the minister. I understand that fear. I don't want to. I would find that very uncomfortable as a minister. My successors will find that uncomfortable, too. You want there to be a careful process. That's why I just described how it works with the recovery commands. This is never gonna happen fast at all. If it is necessary to do so quickly and if the inspection finds maladministration, then you would want to create that possibility. By the way, that never happens at the request of the Chamber. The Chamber can ask me anything. I can lead you through anything. However, the inspection must find maladministration. If Mr Peters is afraid that it can go too fast, then you could very explicitly refer to the word'maladministration' and agree on the order of the process. This is part of the legal history. However, you must prevent the Chamber from sitting in the chair of the inspection, saying that there is maladministration and that the Minister must act on it. It's not like that. It's up to the inspection. He's noticing. He's doing a repair job. In an extreme case, it can go one step further, on the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u503	Finally, Mr. Peters. I get the impression that you have a very specific question, namely whether the Minister can also intervene in non-structural and non-serious incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u504	That's right. The Minister says: if there is a very serious incident, but no demonstrable pattern, then there is nothing I can do about it. I agree. But you take out both "structural" and "serious." Then I have the question that the President has just summarized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u505	I understand. The question is this. In the end, I don't decide if it's maladministration. That's why I took that run-up. I thought the case of VMBO Maastricht was serious. However, I do not know at all whether the judge thinks this is serious. It is maladministration if the inspection finds that out. I want to be able to act on that. I'd like to give that confidence to the inspection, too. The moment they have a suspicion, you want to prevent it from holding up in court after that. So you want them to consider that. In order to reassure Mr Peters, I give the exact wording to indicate exactly how we mean it. "A reasonable suspicion. If, on the basis of the facts and the circumstances, it can be assumed with probability that an investigation to be carried out will result in "maladministration"..." that reasonable suspicion may be based on direct observations or observations of the inspection itself, but also on signals from third parties or other sources. It should be indicated that a fully objectiveizable measure is being sought. I'll do it in full, Mr. Chairman. The obligation to take interim measures is there if there is an infringement of an obligation to act which follows a reasonable presumption of maladministration. This is required in the face of immediate urgency. In order to determine whether there is an "emergency" situation, it is necessary to consider the consequences of non-compliance with public intervention and the timing of the action. If, in view of its nature and extent, these effects are not very serious, the effects can be repaired or the consequences do not occur in the short term, no urgent action will be taken. It's part of an immediate emergency. So there is an infringement of a proper requirement, which would then have to show a reasonable suspicion of maladministration. In so doing, it shall take into account the need for "due to immediate urgency'. And in an immediate emergency, all of these are legal pitfalls, which need to be assessed if government intervention is not to take place and at what time. If, due to its nature and extent, these effects are not very serious and the effects can be repaired or the consequences do not occur in the short term, an urgent indication shall not be taken into account. I think that is the direction Mr Peters is looking for. The effect should therefore also be very serious, otherwise there will be no immediate urgency and there will be no possibility of urgent intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u506	Mr. Peters, if you're in the fifth... yes, you may. Go ahead, Mr. Peters. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u507	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u508	That's actually what I wanted to introduce you to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u509	Mr President, I am sorry: it is legal on these issues. We get stuck in court a lot of times. And then it can't be demonstrated. That's an incredible frustration in your room. I understand that you say here: it's all complicated. That's right: it's also very complicated in court. You want to increase the chance at the moment it's very necessary. Well, that's gotta make a big deal out of it. This includes these formulations. I hope to help Mr Peters with that. Otherwise, on the basis of what is now in the Acts, I am going to help him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u510	Clear. Thank you for that offer, on behalf of Mr Peters. Then Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u511	I have a few questions, Mr. Chairman, because it was a rather long block. I'll keep them brief. The first one. Has it not actually been considered simply to classify the refusal of the inspection as maladministration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u512	I didn't consider that. But I also have no reason why I didn't consider it, I tell you immediately. It has to do with what I just told you. It doesn't class as maladministration right now, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u513	I imagine it's one such...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u514	You can impose fines, administrative fines, etc. The question is what you're showing faster. If you're not allowed in, of course, you've quickly shown that you can't go in and you've more quickly imposed a fine. If you then have to qualify for maladministration, then it must be preceded by an inspection inquiry. It'll take more time. Sensitively, I say that there are other ways that lead to hassle faster, but you could say "shouldn't it be and-and?" Anyway, that's not before now. I didn't think of that, but Mr. Kwint did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u515	Well, I haven't tabled an amendment on it myself, you know. Then we'll talk about the teaching methods. I get it, and I don't want to see four coalition parties standing here again about what they have agreed on Article 23. But it's really weird that you can just teach citizenship from a book that says that when a man and a woman look at each other, they de facto commit adultery? As a lecturer, you have to wring a lot of turns to ensure social security during a citizenship lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u516	Then what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u517	Couldn't that be smarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u518	That seems to me to be a complicated question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u519	Mr. Kwint is smart himself. If he asks, he might have an idea of how we could do that. I think that's the search. There are a number of things that help. We've tightened the citizenship mission. That was one of the things we ran into at the CHL. There was nothing in the law, so you can say: yes, there is nothing in the law. What we are doing now is placing citizenship under maladministration. Actually, that's a double insurance policy. In addition, we have also written down in the coalition agreement that we are giving an impact on that point of the teaching material you mention. That's what we're working on right now, and that comes back to the letter on governance and supervision. The inspection has a task and a role to play in looking at how we do that, and they do that, by the way. We can also see that, but that is a very different discussion, and there is a lot going on when it comes to curriculum and citizenship. The view on the performance of students is also limited. We need to get a better look at that anyway. Fortunately, this attention to citizenship has increased in recent years. It's in the law now. We're doing it here under maladministration. There's gonna be a tightening up in the curriculum and we're working on monitoring to better assess the teaching material. Those are steps that we have partly already taken and partly still take.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u520	If I understand correctly, the Minister says about the amendment that he agrees with the spirit, but that you should not do so in this law. The first question would then be: why not now, because then you've already arranged it? The follow-up question would then be: the Minister says that an evaluation is coming, what is a useful route, should we then table a motion here that is still being taken over, so that it goes along with the evaluation? What would you suggest?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u521	This has a broader implication. That was also an interruption by Mr Van Meenen about a larger part of the public system. There will be a debate with the Minister of Foreign Affairs shortly. I refer to that, because I think it makes sense to include it in that. I only find it a bit sad myself when a ruler only gives a technical answer, so I do need to give something of coloring and to see how I can help to do that. But the right place is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u522	I still can't get an answer to the question as to why the Minister can't follow the bill that was in line with the Council of State's advice and why he's putting something new down. I now turn to the matter of serious suspicion. The Council of State says that, in the event of an emergency, which is a far-reaching intervention, more than a reasonable presumption is necessary in order to take such a far-reaching decision. The Council of State says that the inclusion of a serious suspicion is necessary; not that it is desirable or nice to have, but necessary. Why does the Minister put that aside?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u523	I did say that, but you may not agree. I have pointed out that there may be a situation in which you can legally pull over words for a very long time. Then I think it is up to the inspection to do very thorough and good research on the basis of an investigation, a report, with a conclusion. If the conclusion is that something is really going on, as they see it, then you also want them to be able to qualify it as maladministration. In the past, the threat alone caused governance to wake up and improve their lives. But if you make that harder, it'll also take longer until governing realizes it. I have experience that if you don't want to cooperate, that gives a lot of opportunity for lengthy and lengthy proceedings in court, and I want to minimize that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u524	The Council of State points out that there really is a contradiction here with the principle of care, the principle of motivation, the principle of legal certainty, the principle of fair play; quite a few principles of law that we are talking about in our rule of law. Then the Minister says he relies on the report the inspection should write. However, the explanatory memorandum states that a report from the inspection is free of form. "If this is not necessary to establish the facts necessary for the imposition of an urgent alert, the report does not need to be very comprehensive either." Why does the Minister put aside the opinion of the Council of State on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u525	I think it's a little faint. I'll answer. My answer, and that remains the answer, is that that criterion makes the burden of proof so high that it makes it much more difficult to intervene if it is necessary. Then it will also be much more difficult for us in the Chamber, if we all see such a situation, not to have the feeling that we are standing idly by. It is not for me to decide whether it is for the Chamber to decide, but it is for us to fully trust the inspection with regard to the investigation that it is doing and the care with which it is doing so. That's why we have her. We have very good people for that, too. I wouldn't doubt that. If she then finds maladministration and the administration then says 'I am not going along with it', then I would think it very wise to have tools in the law that allow us to improve the situation for pupils. I think that's important, to be honest. I'm not going to make it unnecessarily difficult with a lot of risks in the law. I'm not making that valuation. I understand what the Council of State is saying, but of course it also says that in some cases the inspection should have used the instruments differently. The danger is that we think it's easy, but it's not easy. The inspection also indicates that in many cases it is not so easy to achieve this. It is not for nothing that she is regularly in court and has a lot of discussions about whether a report can be published at all or not. It'll take a long time. Usually she gets right eventually, but in some cases you can't suffer that time, and then you want to have that opportunity. If that were to happen, it would be a very, very unique situation, but that does not mean that we can rule it out in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u526	Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u527	The Minister wants to make it easier to use this instrument. The inspection doesn't even have to say a lot of words about it. That's in his explanatory statement. Can the Minister then respond to the criticism of the VO Council and the PO Council, which say: here the threshold is very low; there is a very high chance that incidents will take place politically and that social pressure is leading. Please let the Minister respond to the criticism that is being expressed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u528	I just answered that in the beginning of the block. I'll leave it at that. I can repeat it all the time, because you ask the same question all the time. But you hope that, if you ask the question more often...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u529	Because I don't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u530	One moment, Mr. Secretary. I propose that, even if we disagree, we conduct the debate and debate through the President. I would like to give the Minister time to respond to the question about the criticism of the PO Council and the VO Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u531	Sure. Asking the question more often suggests that what I'm telling here is total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u532	I didn't get that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u533	Me neither. I'm doing my best to answer those questions very carefully. I also said: I can imagine. In those cases, it's always exciting for drivers, but I think everyone would want us to have a law that doesn't allow it to be swept under the carpet for a long time. It's not like that's gonna be easy. I really think you'll disqualify the inspection if you say she can do something with a few words. It must find maladministration. That's what the law says. So that's kind of weighty. Usually a repair order follows. That's for the board to ask: can you get to work on this? When the board says "I don't," it usually comes in the paper and we usually worry about it. And then the inspection says: I would like to be able to do more now to show that this is really maladministration, but the legislation is not helping me now. Then let us give confidence to the inspection. And if that leads to a choice that we cannot agree with, should the inspection call it maladministration while we all say 'it cannot be', then we can call the bell. Then you can still intervene. But to say beforehand that it should be made more difficult for the inspection of that investigation: I find that risky in view of the cases that we have often seen. Now these cases are solved very often, but that is because the board does cooperate. It's gonna stay that way. So in many cases we won't need this and I don't want us to need it, I'll reassure drivers and they'll definitely want to prevent that from happening. Yes, for more than 99% of drivers maybe 99.9% of them will never play this. Let's keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u534	I'm just checking to see if there are any questions regarding block 1 and the introduction. I see Mr. Van Baarle and Mr. De Hoop. Then I would like to conclude and briefly suspend this block to discuss with the Members of Parliament what to do, as we are slowly reaching the clock of 11 p.m. Mr. Van Baarle, about the system requirement and the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u535	I believe that we were once again bogged down in a debate on the urgency and the burden of proof underlying it. It wasn't exactly an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u536	I'll just take a look at the minister. Is it true you still have block 2 to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u537	Yeah, I'll get to the emergency directions. Then I will explain it further, but I would also like to ask whether it is not too far-reaching to give an opportunity to give an urgent message. That is what Mr Van Baarle asked, but if that is his question now, I can take it with me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u538	That's what I think we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u539	I suggest you ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u540	It's a bit of a mix-up, Mr. Chairman. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u541	We'll just take it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u542	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u543	Mrs Van der Graaf asked a question following the change in terminology, from "serious" to "reasonable." Then it's about the emergency directions. The Minister states that this is the case if maladministration is demonstrated by the inspection. I do not understand that correctly, because if the inspection proved maladministration, we would have a different situation than a reasonable suspicion of maladministration. So my question is: are we going to make an urgent statement if the inspection has shown that there has been maladministration? Or do we proceed with an urgent warning if there is a suspicion of maladministration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u544	Mischief is at the disposal of the clue. In the case of urgency, this is a reasonable presumption of maladministration. That is what we are discussing: should it be'serious' or'reasonable'? This concerns a period of six months, but for the real indication you have to demonstrate the maladministration completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u545	Who ultimately checks whether there is a reasonable suspicion of maladministration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u546	That's the inspection. He's doing the research. It must also produce a report in which people are able to make that clear. It must also note that this cannot be subject to a recovery order, because it must be done quickly or for whatever reason. Nor can there be any further investigation. The inspection therefore makes it very urgent and important at that time to do something with it. After that, we must also demonstrate with follow-up research and so on that there really must be a clue. And if that doesn't work in six months, it's done. It's really about a case like VMBO Maastricht.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u547	So the Minister, the government, has never before come to the conclusion that there is a reasonable suspicion of maladministration before the inspection itself has been objectively established. The inspection therefore finds that there is a reasonable presumption of maladministration, and only in such a case will the government itself use that qualification. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u548	Yes. The inspection is conducting an investigation. He's got to see this. And only when he sees it will the instruments that you have in the law enter into force. Let's talk about the case. At VMBO Maastricht we were quite sure that the school exams did not meet the requirements, while the graduation ceremony was coming. The law then actually limited us in how quickly we could intervene there. Suppose the board didn't cooperate there. You'd have graduated. They wouldn't have had any value. The board could have said: we don't want to lose face, so we let it go. Those students are gonna have a problem with it. In this case, the board was happy to cooperate, but if the inspection had found that they did not cooperate, you can intervene in such a case in future. That is below; nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u549	Then I suggest we suspend briefly for consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u550	The other cubes are much shorter, Mr. Chairman, I can tell you. This was a long block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u551	I'm aware of that, and so are the people who are following the debate. However, I would like to suspend briefly, I say to the Minister, to discuss with Members of Parliament how we are going to organise this debate further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u552	We've had a meeting with the MPs. The result is that we are going to finish the first term on the part of the cabinet. A number of groups still have some questions. We'll take stock of it. Those questions must be submitted by the Registry no later than 12 noon on Tuesday. Then they'll be redirected to the cabinet. That will be answered in the near future. The aim is to find two hours before the summer to complete the second term and thus the legal treatment. Two hours, yeah. Did I say "two minutes"? Yes, I'm optimistic sometimes, but in this case, given your performance in particular, Mr. Van Meenen, that seems impossible. I would like to give the floor to the Minister to answer the remaining four blocks. I would also like to ask the Members of Parliament a few questions. You've asked a lot of questions. If a question has not yet been answered, let us do it after the Minister has finished his blocks. Yeah? Then that's the deal. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three blocks: citizenship and security, then MBO and higher education, and then the amendments. Thank you also for the opportunity to do an inventory of a number of questions. I do that here, of course, in all conscience, but I can also imagine that it is late that you are all a bit dizzy, so it is always good to do so on paper. But we will have to be honest about this, and we will also have to be honest about it: do you want to have as little discussion as possible with the judge or do you want to have more discussion with the judge? That is simply a political choice. I'm glad the deal is that we'll finish this at least before the summer. Citizenship and security. The SP Group had asked a number of questions. At what point can a governance be dealt with sooner if it proves responsible for an unsafe environment for young gay students? The inspection is currently intensifying its monitoring of social security. That is also on the basis of agreements in the coalition agreement. In addition, this law offers more scope for action in the event of serious damage to pupils or serious damage to basic values. Then I can give you a clue. In addition, an urgent warning can be given if the inspection finds an infringement of the law, there is an immediate urgency and there is a reasonable suspicion of maladministration. That is the combination I have just mentioned, but we will also put it on paper. Mr. Chairman. Then the questions of the VVD. Does this law offer the Minister enough tools to protect students from unwanted practices of inequality in schools? Schools in basic education have a citizenship mission. Part of that is that students can be themselves. Part of this is that pupils are told that equivalence is a requirement. Schools where citizenship education does not include this do not comply with the law. The inspection will then take enforcement action. If the inspection finds that there is a serious situation, it may lead to an finding of maladministration. Then a clue can be given. Fair suspicion. Social security in the law. Structureal character lapses. What safeguards are in place? That is a question from Mr Kwint. The Social Security Act obliges governments to take care of the safety of their pupils. If the inspection finds that a board does not comply with the legal requirements, the inspection will take place. The bill makes it possible to give a clue in the event of serious damage to pupils and, if not followed, to end the funding. In doing so, I will ensure that we have good guarantees to be able to take firm action in the event of serious cases of social insecurity. Is citizenship only about education or also about the behaviour of the driver? That is a question from Mr Peters. The citizenship assignment is a general assignment to the school. It is not just about education, but the mission is wider. Not only education must be in line with the basic values of the democratic rule of law and promote them, but the whole school culture must be in line with them. The behavior of a driver is, of course, part of that school culture. In fact, a director has a very decisive role to play in school culture. The inspection intervenes if the behaviour of a driver has the effect that school culture does not promote the basic values. The legal citizenship mission is too vague. Core targets and end-terms are lacking, as is a clear common core. That was a question from Mr Van Meenen, but also from the CDA, I think. The legal citizenship mission to schools is not too vague. The common core lies in the basic values of the democratic rule of law: freedom, equality and solidarity. These basic values are also reflected in the framework of the inspection exercise in Parliamentary proceedings, as well as in the case of schools. We are going to work hard in the near future to help schools shape this in their education. There will be a new support structure as of 1 July, the Centre of Expertise on Citizenship. This is given further impetus in the Master Plan basic skills. It is true that the core objectives and the final terms must also be strengthened. That's part of the curriculum review. We've been talking about that recently. Why does the government have such a radical influence on the Minister's responsibility? That was a question from the SGP. "He can suddenly interfere with the microlevel of the individual pupil. Surely that can be done by means of a financial sanction?" I don't recognize myself in "radical." We are talking here about a few excesses, where we want to be able to intervene. That "micro-level" also doesn't add up. I, but above all my successor, any minister, do not want to be the director of a school. I don't want to influence the class or the student. I'm not doing that. This bill doesn't settle that either. I'm throwing that insinuation off my back, too. This regulates an intervention with the intention that the board can then find the way up. Sometimes a cost sanction isn't enough for that. And yes, that is in the interest of the student mentioned by Mr Bishop. Then I come to MBO and higher education. My colleague Robbert Dijkgraaf is responsible for this. The bill also applies to these sectors of education. As in the case of basic education, the definition of "maladministration" is relaxed in two respects. The requirement for a system lapses and long-term negligence becomes a reason for a designation. Also in the MBO and h.o. This legislative proposal will be able to provide an urgent warning. For the MBO, the bill contains a number of specific measures. Minister Dijkgraaf may withdraw the right to provide training if the quality of education is not good enough. Then he must now give the board an improvement period of at least one year. That is too long in urgent situations. That is why we are reducing this deadline to at least three months instead of at least one year. Another problem is to withdraw the right to examine. During the improvement period prior to a possible withdrawal, an institution can continue to issue diplomas at this time. You shouldn't want that if you know there's something really wrong with the exams or if the value of the diploma is at stake. For funded institutions, this legislative proposal can therefore prevent the issuing of diplomas with an urgent instruction. For non-cost institutions, this proposal provides that the examination and certification can be suspended. Then the last measure specifically for MBO. The law already has the possibility to impose a criminal fine on organisations that give the impression that they are wrongly providing recognised MBO training. This becomes, as in higher education, an administrative fine. In this way, the Minister and the inspection can take enforcement instead of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This also makes enforcement more effective. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the proposal on higher education. It is true that, fortunately, this instrument has not been used in higher education since the introduction of the current designation. However, for the exceptional situation in which urgent instruction is needed, that possibility must also be available in higher education. With this draft law, we will see to it that an urgent instruction can also be given in higher education. For the sake of clarity, the legislative proposal will, of course, continue to stand for academic freedom. For example, if criticism is made in a scientific study, this will not lead to "maladministration" and cannot therefore be the basis for an urgent designation. The same applies to autonomy in higher education. Of course, we guarantee that too. An urgent indication only affects administrative relations in exceptional situations. Mr Beertema asked for this too. So I'm gonna answer that question. I see him walking. Differences in governance at universities versus h.o. And Mbo. Is this the reason why there have been no major abuses at universities and is this also a reason to exclude universities, for example? Governance at universities is indeed well regulated. We agree on that. This has also been achieved with the Chamber in recent years. However, we do not dare to say whether this has a causal link with the absence of major abuses so far. In the debate, a number of spokesmen mentioned examples of issues which also need to be improved in higher education. The fact that it has not taken place so far does not, of course, mean that it will not happen in the future either. For this reason, I do not think it is desirable and appropriate for universities to be automatically excluded from this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u554	I thought we agreed to do the answer first, Mr. Beertema. But you've asked questions about this, so I'm releasing you. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u555	I have two more questions on the same subject. I can do that, too. Perhaps Mr Bertema could ask a sharper question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u556	Sure, he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u557	Does the bill affect academic freedom in higher education? A question from GroenLinks, SP and PvdA. Doesn't it lead to potentially Hungarian situations? Let me be very clear about this, also on behalf of my colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf. The possibility of giving guidance to the Supervisory Board does not relate to the content of academic research. There is therefore no room for temptation, which was used to use this instrument in experienced political pressure or other views on education or subjects of scientific research, as the umbrella of universities suggests. When we talk about academic freedom, we are talking about the principle according to which teachers and researchers at university should enjoy, in the interests of the development of knowledge and of the diversity of opinions, a very great freedom to carry out research and to express their opinion in the performance of their duties. These are important freedoms of individual researchers, teachers and students, which we must cherish. The possibility of giving guidance to the Supervisory Board does not relate to the content of academic research. In fact, indications relate to maladministration. This is essential to the way in which the university or university of higher education is controlled. We are talking, for example, about financial malpractice, the serious failure to comply with the obligations relating to quality care within the institution, or about unlawful acts or unlawful enrichment by a director or supervisor. Those are two very different things, where it has nothing to do with the other. Only when maladministration is at issue will the current indication appear. The instruments include an urgent indication, but this does not make the relationship with academic freedom another. Finally. Doesn't the law specifically for higher education leave too much room for the minister? Higher education is consciously regulated in such a way as to give the institutions some room for manoeuvre. If it is not a breach of higher education, GroenLinks asks. This question shows that there are concerns about the autonomy of higher education institutions. I am happy to reassure you, because this legislative proposal guarantees autonomy. An urgent indication only affects administrative relations in exceptional situations. There was a final question about the role of the participation council in social security within institutions. It is important that there are internal checks-and-balances within the schools and institutions and that they work well, and that students engage in social security through participation. There are many developments in higher education in this area at the moment. In her contribution, Mrs Westerveld also referred to PhD candidates. Later this calendar year, my colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf, comes up with a comprehensive approach which takes account of both the new and ongoing social security initiatives. Those were the questions on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u558	Yes, and that means the Minister answered everything, except for the block of amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u559	Yes, now come the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u560	Good. Then we'll follow the track record again. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. I'm sorry. I'm confusing you. It's gonna be late for me, too. You see, it's imperative that we finish at some point. When I look at Mr. Beertema in front of Mr. Van Meenen, things are not going well. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u561	If you want to talk about it, you can. I thank the Minister for the answers on behalf of the Minister for Universities. I find it somewhat unsatisfactory, because there is little justice here to the well-argued letter from the VSNU. There is a lot more to be said about that. Moreover, I have a number of extremely fundamental objections to the dangers that may arise with regard to freedom of expression and the freedom of science. My request would be that on the next occasion that we are here together, the Minister of Education is also present.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u562	I'm just looking at how the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education is going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u563	I can't say anything about that. I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u564	Yes. It is more up to the committee to request that. No, I think the request is to do so in the next debate. But that's what you can do with each other. You can make a request. There has to be a debate for that too. I think the cabinet is about its own delegation. Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u565	We'll figure it out, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u566	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u567	I would like to focus specifically on scientific education. The Minister makes a very clear distinction between academic freedom and management policy. But I don't understand what this would give the minister extra time to intervene with the boards. The Minister can already suspend and dismiss members of the Supervisory Board. He himself has an influence on the composition of the board. So what is the specific addition to the instruments for understanding scientific education? What does that do extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u568	I understand the question, because we've never used the current clue. There are instruments. You could actually say that's well arranged. The argument to do it here too is that you should have that possibility in higher education in those exceptional situations, where an urgent instruction is needed. There is therefore no urgency at the moment. That's what you're adding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u569	The Minister himself states that there is not yet a single example in which this scenario has occurred or where it has been necessary. In my view, this also indicates that it is not necessarily necessary for scientific education in terms of proportionality and effectiveness. The universities themselves state that if it stays with the government, the minister already has the resources to do so. If it goes one step further, they worry about academic freedom. If the Minister himself decouples that, then I do not see the point and the need to include scientific education. The Minister has not yet convinced me of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u570	It therefore does not concern the content of academic research. There is therefore no room to be tempted to interfere with this by experienced political pressure. It really is about administrative relations, so the functioning of the administration. There are indeed instruments for this. They haven't been applied yet. I'd say let's keep it that way. With such a clue, therefore, there might not be so much change in that sense. But the urgent character that is not present in the instruments, which you do bring in in the whole other educational instruments, you bring in here. Well, I'd say to those drivers that there's not so much to fear at that point. But I would like to stress that this must really be separated from academic freedom. That's all that matters. It's really about the administrative matter. So if something happens there in the sense of sudden enrichment, or there is a situation about which there is a lot of fuss, and if you can establish that, you could act on it quickly with that urgent instruction. That is not the case now. I am not entirely a connoisseur in this area, but I can imagine that there are longer deadlines in the current instruments for how to harden and demonstrate that. In a unique situation, if this were the case, this would give the possibility to intervene more quickly, as a matter of urgency. I think it's a political weighting whether you think that's an addition or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u571	Finally, Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u572	I get it. But in an interrupting debate Mr Van Meenen mentioned, for example, the flexible shell. I like that a lot. I'd like to see it as little as possible. But he also mentioned that you should not want it and that you might be able to intervene on that point. As far as I am concerned, that should not be an objective in this respect. I think that is a great deal of it, but I do not think it would be desirable if this legislative proposal would allow you to intervene in those areas as well. I do not think it would be desirable, as far as social security is concerned, for a university to carry out scientific research with, for example, Israel... I can imagine that some of the staff and students might have a problem with that. But you would not want to intervene in the area of insecurity. I'm looking for that balance, so to speak. If it doesn't go beyond the administration, I guess it doesn't have to be in the law in principle. But then you will partly remove my concerns about academic freedom. You yourself mentioned a number of examples during the debate. I hope that is not what you are referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u573	No, because the inspection must therefore also establish maladministration. In any case, there must at least be a reasonable suspicion of maladministration. That's also defined in the law. That may be about enrichment and a number of other elements, but what touches on academic freedom is in any case independent of that. The cases you mention would at most be very lateral... Well, then that could be some kind of conflict. It seems to me that you will find that difficult. But quite frankly, that's not my concern either. I think I should stay away from that, because that's up to the inspection. But, of course, there is not just maladministration. That also applies to a clue now, isn't it? As I said, no maladministration has so far been found and a clue has been given. So I'm guessing an urgent alert isn't gonna do that all of a sudden. But in the event that something very serious happens, for example that a lot of money is being drawn away, and you want to stop that driver immediately as soon as it is seen, it would be possible with these instruments more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u574	Then I suggest that we go to the amendments. I also propose to the Minister to appreciate the amendments and not to give a comprehensive explanation per amendment, because I think the content has been sufficiently varied over the last seven hours. I would therefore like the appreciation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u575	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to do that. At the same time, this is my first term and the appreciation of the amendments is part of the legal history. There have been rather fundamental questions, and if I am not fully in the appreciation of the amendments now, but there are a lot of questions being asked by the Chamber, then I do not know if I am doing enough to help. I understand what you're saying, but I have no other way of explaining the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u576	Then I suggest that you do the appreciation first and then briefly and compactly explain the explanation. I would also ask you not to repeat the arguments that have been exchanged, because they have of course been raised in recent hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u577	I understand that, Mr President, but at the same time it seems to be a good reason to make written requests about it. So that's also a reason to think that apparently it hasn't all changed very clearly. I am going to do it again per amendment, but I will do it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u578	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u579	The Bishop's amendment to point No. 9 on the deletion of "long-term'. This amendment seeks to delete the point that I can give an indication in the case of long-term poor quality care. In doing so, it would reverse the letter of amendment which I have sent to the Chamber. I should like to say a few words about the content. The interests of students and students are most important if, for example, quality care is insufficient for a long time and if boards repeatedly fail to perform the repair assignments. It is not possible for students and students to receive long-term under-educated education because a board does not have its own affairs in order. I disagree with you that these should necessarily be serious situations. I find long-term inadequate quality care by definition serious. The case of the SvPO is also an example of this. Then a clue could be the right way to get the board into action quickly. I therefore advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u580	The amendment in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u581	Yes. Then there is the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Bishop on designation and structural action. The amendment proposes that structural action be brought back as a condition for a designation in relation to citizenship or security. I do not recommend the amendment because it nullifies the letter of amendment to this section and limits too much the possibility of intervention. It is essential that action be taken only if no intervention can have serious consequences and the administration itself cannot manage to resolve it. For example, if a very serious security incident occurs, the board immediately disqualifies itself. Even if the incident was about just one student, the incident could expose the failure of the board. And then I want to be able to give you a clue. However, I can only give an indication or an urgent indication if it is based on a report from the inspection. For example, Article 153, fifth paragraph of the WPO and the urgent designation in Article 153a, fourth paragraph of the WPO. Similar provisions are contained in the other sectoral laws and there is therefore a careful procedure. The inspection carries out research; there will be hearing and hearing; a draft report will be drawn up; there will be an opportunity for that and the report will then be adopted. If it follows that there is maladministration, I have to consider whether an indication can be given. I cannot, therefore, give an indication or an urgent indication without an independent professional opinion of the inspection. I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u582	The amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Bishop is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u583	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer The evaluation clause is a good starting point for evaluating the law after five years. I'm giving that amendment judgment Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint, on the right of consent for the mr when it comes to the remuneration of the supervisors. The participation bodies in p.o., vo, mbo and h.o. are involved in the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in various ways, such as drawing up competence profiles and profiles and making a binding nomination. I think it is important to protect participation. That is what has been agreed in the coalition agreement. As I pointed out in my reply, this must be done in a coherent and well thought-out manner, for example by considering how the various financial aspects are related and what the wishes and carrying capacity of the mr are at such a point. I would like to talk to the participation councils about this. That is why I must discourage the amendment for the moment, with the promise that I will take it into account in the elaboration of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u584	The amendment in part No. 14 by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u585	Then there is the amendment to item No. 15, in place of Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 15, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace I understand that you are taking advantage of this moment to take care of this. I understand the author. The WNT standards are there for a reason. It is not good if that would be avoided via goat paths. But it doesn't fit in with this bill right now. I'm referring to what I've already said. On 14 September, a debate was held between the Permanent Chambers Committee for BZK and the Minister of BZK on the conclusions of the evaluation of the WNT and the content of the evaluation law in preparation. I think the debate should be held there. I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u586	The amendment in part No. 15 by Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld are not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u587	Then there is the amendment to item No. 16 by Mr De Hoop of the PvdA. This legislative proposal provides for a system-wide change in order to speed up the intervention, hopefully, in the exceptional situations in which things really go wrong. For all sectors, this instrument is subject to the necessary safeguards. The amendment excludes some universities from this bill. However, there must also be an opportunity to intervene at universities in an exceptional situation. It cannot be explained that this can be done in all other sectors and in colleges, but does not intervene in universities. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u588	The amendment in part No. 16 by Mr De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u589	I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and That amendment is superfluous. It is about ensuring that no urgency can be given if the suspicion of maladministration also relates to the subject matter of the scientific research carried out or its results. The petitioner has concerns about academic freedom in relation to the proposal. I have said a number of things about this. In universities critical research is done. This may also relate to public policy. It should be possible. That does not lead to maladministration. This cannot therefore be the basis for an urgent alert. That is why I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u590	You said that the amendment to item No. 17 is superfluous. That's not an appreciation we know. The request is to withdraw it. Otherwise the judgment is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u591	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u592	I'm looking at Mr. De Hoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u593	I shall go a little further on this point in the written questions. If the Minister reassures me, as he says now, I will withdraw the amendment. But I'm still waiting for those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u594	Yes. Then the opinion for the amendment to item No. 17 by Mr De Hoop: dissuade until otherwise decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u595	Yes, correct. I would like to say a few words about the Van Meenen/Paul amendment, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the Amendment No 1, the This amendment introduces an obligation to promote a sense of social responsibility in basic education and MBO with a committee to monitor it. There are already rules on citizenship in these sectors, which the inspection is already monitoring. These rules provide a strong framework for monitoring school culture. In addition, we also take with us what teachers, school leaders and administrators say and how they contribute to school culture. I doubt the added value of the amendment. The Council of State also gave negative advice in the legislative proposal on the inclusion of a committee in the MBO because of uncertainties and contradictions. I do not want this amendment to interfere with the implementation of the citizenship mandate. What should happen now if a school leader makes discriminatory statements? Does the inspection have to go there to see if it is in breach of the citizenship mandate? Or should the committee advise on whether there are discriminatory statements? In short, the amendment creates uncertainty in this sense. That requires a little more thought-out, we think. In this sense, the inspection is ideally suited to overseeing the citizenship mission. This monitoring should also be carried out in full, taking into account the whole school context and on the basis of an expert and pedagogical assessment. Furthermore, this amendment regulates that the committee must seek advice before I can impose a penalty on a school. This could also take too long and could go against what we want to achieve with the legislative proposal, namely to intervene quickly in urgent situations. I must therefore discourage the amendment for the moment, because a number of things lead to too many uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u596	Maybe just to clarify things a little. Of course, this is not so much about the institution or the administration. This is about a director or a member of the Supervisory Board. It's about dealing with an individual. That is a different situation than dealing with an institution. That is why this difference is made. In higher education, of course, when it was introduced, examples of where it was deemed necessary were also given. So that's what we're joining.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u597	We're gonna see if the minister's gonna make another judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u598	I am not going to give a different opinion now, but I think that this is a good point to find out exactly and compare it with higher education. The fear here is that it is very arbitrary what could be the reason to bring it to that committee. So those criteria have to be tight. That will undoubtedly be the case in higher education. I don't know enough about that myself. I do know the discussion that led to it, but I do not know the effect. So we're gonna have to take a look at that. I think it is also a good thing that we give more explanation in the set we are going to come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u599	Is that the request to hold him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u600	Yeah, if you can. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade him for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u601	I do not have to ask a separate question about it, but perhaps in the letter which is still to be sent, the appreciation can be finally established in response to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u602	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u603	Clear. Then the appreciation for now of the Van Meenen/Paul amendment in part No. 18 "dissuade"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u604	Yeah, it's "dissuade" now. But we agree that, in the letter to the Chamber, we are even more specific about the comparison with higher education, what it could and could not do and what it means if you wanted such an amendment, whether you should amend it and, if so, in what direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u605	Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u606	The amendment in part No. The aim of Mr Bishop's 19 is to make it clear in the law that an indication or an urgent instruction may be given only if a financial sanction is not sufficient. That's unnecessary. With the applicant, we believe that an indication or an urgent indication should be given only if this is proportionate. I also think it is important that an indication or an urgent indication is proportionate and that these resources should be taken into account only if it is plausible that the same can not be achieved by a lighter means. I am talking about subsidiarity. However, I do not recommend this amendment to be superfluous, as it is already the result of the General Administrative Law Act. This is specifically provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 3.4 of that Act. I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u607	The Bishop's amendment to point No. 19 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u608	Then we have the amendment to item No. 20, to replace the amendment to item No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, to replace Amendment No. 20, The amendment proposes that the urgent designation be given only if there is a serious suspicion of maladministration rather than a reasonable presumption. It is not that I will give or wish to give an urgent warning at the slightest. But if there's a little fire going on somewhere, you don't want to wait until it turns into a bonfire. Then you want me to be able to get the fire out in time. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the government, action must then be taken and direct action must also be taken. In the event of serious suspicion, the standard of proof is fairly high. This makes the intervention too difficult and that is not in the interests of students and students. Moreover, the urgent designation will always include reversible measures. I can only prescribe irreversible measures with a regular clue. In order to do so, the maladministration must be established. So I advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u609	The amendment in part No. 20: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u610	Then there is the last amendment, in part No. 21, by Mr Peters. Although it is a good practice that the Minister informs the Chambers in the event of incidents, the author of the amendment believes that due to the scope of this law it should be mandatory to inform the Chambers when the Minister uses an urgent instruction. It is indeed good practice to inform the Chamber of such incidents. I do so, and I intend to do so after an urgent alert has been put in place. I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. Do. In that sense, this amendment may not be entirely necessary, but it is a stick behind the door that is not in it right now. I'll do it differently, but you might want to put that in the law because you never know who's coming after me. So I can give this amendment judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u611	The Peters amendment in part No. 21 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u612	That was the end of it and I thank the Chamber, Mr President. I look forward to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u613	Thank you for your reply and the appreciation of the amendments. This brings us to the end of the debate in the first period of the examination of the Enlargement Act administrative tools education under file number 35920.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-11.u614	I thank the people at home, the MPs. I thank the Minister. I also thank the support. This brings us to the end of this day. I'm closing the meeting. I would like to add that we will complete this legal process before the summer recess. Questions can be tabled until 12.00 p.m. next Tuesday and will then be answered.
