ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the European Summit on 23 and 24 June 2022. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. As the government's annotated agenda shows, applications for EU membership from Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia are also on the agenda of the European Summit. Because of the discussion on this subject, the ambassadors of these three countries are present today to follow the debate. This possibility offers the House of Representatives. I will therefore briefly switch to English to welcome them. Furthermore, interpreters are present so that they can follow the debate. Your Excellencies, Mr. Maksym Kononenko, Ambassador of Ukraine, Ms. Tatiana Pârvu, Ambassador of the Republic of Moldova, and Mr. David Solomonia, Ambassador of Georgia. I wish you a warm welcome to the Plenary Chamber of the House of Representatives, the Tweede Kamer. Today, members of Parliament will debate the Dutch Government's position on the items on the agenda of the European Council. We realize that this is an important moment for your countries, considering the applications for EU membership that have been submitted. I will now switch back to Dutch, since the debate of course is conducted in Dutch. Having said that, I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. I would like to ask four questions with Members or agree on comments to each other and six to the ruler, in this case the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, our Prime Minister stood pontifical in front of a Ukrainian flag and sounded the war cry "Slava Ukraini." And now the PM's literal words are: "This war is ours." Imagine Putin saying at a press conference: 'This war is the war of the Netherlands'. That's exactly what our Prime Minister did. It was a direct declaration of war. He will knowingly take the Netherlands to war against the largest nuclear power in the world. He is putting the Netherlands at risk and thus slaps the Constitution on its heels. Why does the Prime Minister declare war on Russia during a press release? Why does he pass the States General? And why does he set aside Article 96 of the Constitution? And how does this ruling relate to the Code of Criminal Law, Second Book, Title I, Article 100, which states that you are not allowed to engage in acts that create the danger of us being involved in a war? Mr. Chairman. I made a presentation to the Council of Ministers on Friday, about what was said about the farmers who revolt against the invented nitrogen crisis. Without opposition and without opposition, because our Prime Minister doesn't like it. Perhaps the Prime Minister thought: I'm just throwing two more crises at it, which Parliament can never deal with in one week. A national crisis was decided to take refugees and even to war with Russia. The ruins of Purple were terrible, but the ruins of Rutte are dramatic. This prime minister doesn't solve anything, but he's using crises as a weapon. A food crisis, an energy crisis, a pension crisis, a migration crisis, a nitrogen crisis, a climate crisis, a corona crisis, a housing crisis and a youth crisis, to put the parliament out of play, to make it impossible for farmers to undertake business, to chase entrepreneurs out of the country, to sow poverty, to break the Dutchman and finally to destroy and hand over our beautiful Netherlands to the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr President, on a point of order, because we are debating the European summit here today. Mr Van Haga has a lot of talk here about youth care, about the nitrogen crisis and whatever. But I do not think this is the focus of the debate and it is not a broad budget debate or anything. So I would like to urge Mr Van Haga and the other Members to at least keep to European issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	Okay, all right, I'll move on. Mr. Chairman. Rutte IV depends on crises and that is not in the interests of the Netherlands. This debate is about the EU summit. Our Prime Minister wants Ukraine to join the EU. And yet a question of conscience. How does this attitude of the Prime Minister relate to his explanation of the deposit sheet after the Ukraine referendum? Mr. Chairman. Making Ukraine a member of the EU and perhaps soon NATO is not in the interests of de-escalation of this conflict. Prime Minister Rutte escalates time and time again, and with that the cabinet is taking a great risk with our security. I have asked the Prime Minister before and I ask him again: are you actually prepared to die for Ukraine? If the answer to this question is no, stop that tough war language and try to de-escalate, for the sake of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then we will listen to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a word of welcome, of course, to the ambassadors of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, who are attending today's debate. I hope that the debate will do justice to the great concerns that exist in these three countries. Mr. Chairman. We are on the eve of an important European summit. This summit will change not only the European Union, but also the future of Ukraine. I actually want to start with something unusual in this house: my compliments on the attitude of this cabinet. D66 has often said in this Chamber in recent years: we need to be more proactive in Brussels. Better the hands on the wheel than the foot on the brake. That is what the cabinet has done at the start of this war, with the delivery of weapons to Ukraine, with sanctions on Russia, with energy boycotts, with European defence cooperation and now with the granting of candidate membership to Ukraine and Moldova and the perspective for Georgia. It may not have happened without a hit or a hit, but the results may be there. On the day the European Commission came up with the opinion and the position, the cabinet embraced it. In doing so, the cabinet did justice to the struggle that Ukrainians have been fighting for years for a European perspective. There is literally fighting for the right to live in freedom, security and sovereignty. Mr. Chairman. This candidate membership is, of course, a step full of symbolism, but also a step according to the rules. According to the Treaty, Ukraine fulfils the conditions. No shortcuts have been granted according to the Commission. I have two questions for the Prime Minister. Is he prepared to agree to help those countries which have now gained perspective to meet the conditions for opening negotiations? And what is the Prime Minister's commitment towards the Western Balkans, where other EU countries are calling for accession, for which Bulgaria has imposed a blockade? That is a painful matter, my group believes, and it is a matter that we can hopefully resolve quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Sjoerdsma spoke just now about arms supplies. Last week there was also a motion on arms supplies 'without taboo': there should be no taboo. All arms supplies from the Netherlands are screened completely. What exactly does "no taboo" mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	First of all, for those who do not know the background to the motion: things are not going well in the Donbas military. In other words, Ukraine stands against the wall with its back and for every artillery gun that Ukraine has, there are ten to fifteen on the Russian side. If you want to reverse that momentum and make sure that Ukraine is able to protect its own sovereignty and its own borders, then more weapons are needed, much more weapons. We have seen in many discussions before the war and after the invasion that not everything could and could. My group says, and with my group, the majority of the Chamber, that everything must be possible, whether it be air, land or sea weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then I have one supplementary question. Is there therefore no taboo on the use or use of tactical nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	Those weapons aren't from the Netherlands. Those weapons are in American ownership and I think that the worst kept public secret of the Netherlands is that they are here on Dutch territory. But we have no control over that. Of course, they're not going to be deployed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. In addition, a more fundamental point. Our Prime Minister said on Friday, this is our war, too. As far as I am concerned, he said that very, very rightly. In Ukraine, not only Ukrainian lives are at stake. Every day, every day! They lose just as many people as we did with the MH17. But also the principles of sovereignty and international law are at stake, and the peace and security of our continent. Think in what lessons Putin and Xi Jinping are going to draw when at the end of this war Russia ends with territorial gain. That is why I have this question for the Prime Minister. Does he agree with D66 that Ukraine should win? Does he agree with D66 that we should support Ukraine until it has its own territory back or wants to conclude a peace agreement to its own satisfaction? I'm asking because Ukraine's having a hard time in the Donbass right now. Mr Eppink has just interrupted me about this. We must now do everything we can, for example with arms supplies. From the Chamber came a very clear signal that the Netherlands must do everything possible, as quickly as possible and without taboos. That motion was adopted and I ask the Prime Minister when we will be clear about its implementation. I ask because every day counts. Every day the situation in the southeast is deteriorating. We must ensure that Ukraine succeeds in reversing the tide and reducing the Russians. I ask the Prime Minister if he agrees. Mr. Chairman. In addition to compliments for the cabinet, I also have concerns, because war is about who has the offensive and who forces the other to react. That's true on the battlefield, but it's true outside. So far, Putin has forced us to react. We always respond to the current situation, but we do not anticipate what Putin can do at the end of the day. An example. We are now responding to the fact that Putin is turning the gas tap to Germany and Italy halfway, but we are not ready for a completely closed crane. In short, this is a plea for me to do everything now and to be prepared for the worst scenarios that Putin can confront us with. That is why I have the following questions for the Prime Minister. Let's talk about gas first. Are we prepared for Putin to turn off the gas taps? What measures should be and can be taken at European level to reduce their damage? About energy saving, because if you want to isolate Putin, you have to isolate your home. Do we really do anything in the coming months, until winter, to isolate our homes? In the UK you pass the houses with wind tests and vans drive through the neighborhoods. Here I wonder where our war economy is. About grain. The Kremlin's cynicism knows no bounds. "Our last hope is hunger" is a quote from the corridors of the Kremlin. In other words, are we prepared for the scenario that Putin not only does not let the Ukrainian grain pass, but perhaps even destroys it, which threatens a great famine? Is the Netherlands prepared to argue in favour of a special UN six-emission that is going to get the grain? Is the Netherlands prepared to table a resolution at the United Nations General Assembly under Uniting for Peace to ensure that grain can reach the world? Because we have a big problem. I have seen that the Prime Minister was in general conversation with Secretary-General Guterres on this matter. I hope there will be an update today so that we can see this humanitarian mission in the Black Sea soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	I heard Mr Sjoerdsma say that "our last hope is hunger" was a quote. Who was he quoting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	I quoted a spokesperson for the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	A spokesperson for the Kremlin? This is an official position of Russia? Is that what you're saying? Or have you seen in American propaganda sources that people say this is said and are you going to blow it up in this way, as if it were a formal position of Russian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	If Mr Baudet does not believe the words and quotes, he can also look at Russia's actions. He can see that Russia in no way wants the grain to leave Ukraine by sea, knowing that it is impossible to get the grain in the Ukrainian silos across land to Egypt and Indonesia, for example. He knows that's simply impossible. He can see that Russia is trying to stop that and that Russia is even trying to steal the grain and then sell it at a high price on the world market. Russia is even trying to destroy the grain. If Mr Baudet wants to deny all this too, or if he wants to put it in the list he mentioned earlier, namely when he called Russian intervention in Ukraine extremely mild on 8 March, when thousands were already dead, then Mr Baudet must do so, but it is a waste of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	I see Sjoerdsma's using the known hyperbola. So you're going to bring in all kinds of things while he says in the Lower House that he's quoting Russian government policy: our last hope is hunger. That's what he said. It's a quote. It is very important that we ask about this. We have also seen Prime Minister Rutte say "this is our war" without any problem. What the hell are we doing? Is this actually a quote, yes or no? Or is this something Mr Sjoerdsma has read somewhere, in American war-torn articles? Or is this said in the corridors? Is that it? Or is "our last hope is hunger" real government policy and a formal statement from the Kremlin? If that's true, I want to see the sources of it. If it is not, Mr Sjoerdsma should simply tie in. In the House of Representatives, can't you just apply this to other countries? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	Every second we spend on this interruption, every second we spend on the doubts that Mr Baudet is trying to sow about what Russia is doing to atrocities in Ukraine, every bagatellization that Baudet wants to pronounce in this Chamber about what is happening there, is taking away the enormous urgency that we should all feel to save not only the lives of the Ukrainians, but also to fight for our security, freedom and, I would like to say to Mr Baudet, sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think Sjoerdsma just admits that he doesn't have a single source and that he was just wowing. Now he does that again, with some kind of you-bake, with "but Mr. Baudet, this and that..." Here in the Lower House about the largest nuclear power in the world, about a huge country and about a very complex situation in Ukraine just saying that they say there "our last hope is hunger" does not pass and makes no sense. Mr Sjoerdsma is being exposed here again as a war hitter who takes over American propaganda without thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	In all honesty, it hurts to hear this Kremlin rhetoric here in the Chamber unfrozen and without any nuance from Mr Baudet. It may hurt even more to hear them in the presence of the Ukrainian ambassador. He knows how his people sigh under Russian actions. He knows what Russia is doing to stop the grain, destroy the grain and make sure that the world population is slowly starving, Mr Baudet. If you think that this is the worst thing the Kremlin has said, please refer to the various statements about Ukraine's denazification, while the President is Jewish, Mr Baudet. Then I'd like to talk about the bizarre statement that this is a "special military operation" while it's an invasion, Mr. Baudet. You're trivializing that. I'm really asking you not to do that anymore. It's too painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. We don't have time to waste. We can't wait till after the summer. It's 19 degrees now. Sometimes you think this will blow over. I catch myself doing that, too, so I can't blame anyone. That's not true. We're going to have a hard winter. The preparation for that should be chefsache. I would ask the Prime Minister to express this urgency, not only here and not only in Europe, but also towards the Dutch people. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. At the same time as the energy crisis, we must also combat the climate crisis. That's the price we have to pay in wartime. I ask the Prime Minister whether he can undertake, now that Minister Jetten has officially declared the gas crisis, to plead in Europe for compulsory joint procurement of gas. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the sanctions in the field of oil. In recent months, the European Member States have agreed that oil should be banned by ship from the European Union. That is a good step, although it should be in force much earlier as far as we are concerned. We can see that European shipping is still transporting European oil. European ships, often Greek, bring cheap Russian oil to India and China. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: can it be that we are subsidising cheap oil towards China? Is the Prime Minister going to argue that this gap in sanctions legislation and boycott should be closed as soon as possible? Finally, Mr President. In 2020, the European Union finally adopted the Magnitsky human rights regime in order to tackle human rights violations worldwide. At that time, despite attempts to take corruption as a basis for personal sanctions, it was not possible. Unfortunately, this was too far for some countries. A missed opportunity, which we feel today. This means that we now have one less weapon to deal with Putin and his own. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would argue in the European Council or in the corridors to add anti-corruption to this regime, or to add a separate anti-corruption regime. In the meantime, I understand that there would be agreement at official level, that this would not be necessary and that options would be developed. I would therefore ask him to make a firm effort to do so on behalf of the Netherlands. That also gives us an instrument to deal with people who have earned it more than ever to feel the punishment for what they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have a question for colleague Sjoerdsma. He concludes with a number of specific comments on sanctions, but he does not ask for a seventh sanction package as such. Wouldn't he like to see this seventh sanction package get there? And what important elements would he like to see in that seventh package?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	That is a good question from Mr Van der Lee. I did not touch that because I felt that Minister Hoekstra was clear about it in previous debates. In case it was not clear that my group supports this: yes, my group wants a seventh sanction package. Yes, my group wants that as soon as possible. But my group also wants to avoid the complexity surrounding the sixth package of sanctions. That means more work in advance, let me put it this way, and some less big statements. What's in the package? Of course, we will also have to look at gas, although I suspect that Russia will close the gas rather than announce a boycott. But we will also have to look at the measures that we have already agreed and which will not come into force until December. I call coal and oil. We can see that Russia still rakes in a huge amount of money every day, and that Russia also has the opportunity to find alternative markets. Those holes really need to be closed as quickly as possible, for example by bringing forward measures such as banning the insurance of Russian oil tankers. We need to see where the holes are in the execution. We know how Russia works. It will look for the weaknesses of the European Member States or countries bordering Russia and the European Union to try to get through those countries the high-quality technology it needs for its armed forces. We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u25	I want to continue on this. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about the energy crisis and said that gas should also be on the table. If such a seventh package of sanctions should be introduced and we want to collectively put a new package of sanctions on the table in Europe, does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that we should look at our emergency plan collectively and that there are no taboos? We in the Netherlands have certain taboos on energy, the Germans have their nuclear power stations. So everything has to be put on the table so that we can actually put together a seventh sanction package decisively and decisively. Can Mr Sjoerdsma reflect on those taboos?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u26	I very much agree with that, also because you can say that there is a good chance that the situation on the battlefield will not change in the coming months, however much we would like it to be. When autumn comes, Putin will see his chance to put more pressure on countries within the European Union, not only by shutting off the gas, but completely. It is currently 19 degrees, but let us feel the urgency enormously that we need to be ready for the situation in winter. This means that no measure to supplement our gas reserves is taboo. That also means, as far as I am concerned, that we say, for example, to neighbouring countries such as Germany and Belgium, but also to countries like Spain: if I were you, I would not close your nuclear power stations for the time being, but try to patch them up. We will have to get rid of all the taboos we had before, because we simply have no choice. Here's what I'm gonna say. As far as my group is concerned, it is extremely important that we continue to meet the climate objectives at the same time. So everything that we are now losing on CO deployment, for example by rebooting coal plants or by removing the production restrictions there, we need, for example, to get back to normalization and pricing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri, PvdA. Excuse me, Mr. Sjoerdsma, there is another question for you from Mr. Dassen. He got out of the starting blocks a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u28	Let's keep going on this. I know very well what Mr Sjoerdsma is saying. I wonder whether, as a Europe, we should not have a better draft plan. We are working on this in the Netherlands; other countries are also working on it. Shouldn't that be much more compatible at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u29	I think that the most important thing here is that the scaling-down plans of the Netherlands and Germany are well coordinated. Listening to Minister Jetten's press conference, I heard that we are in sync in that regard. Those cut-off plans also look largely the same. But that also brings with it a dangerous point. I do not think Germany is ready for Russia to turn off the gas tap. Therefore, they may well reach the end of the crisis plan quickly on the German side, compared to other Member States. Other countries, including the Netherlands, will then have to show solidarity. This brings with it difficult choices for the Netherlands. I therefore very much agree that solidarity and synchronisation of measures are of great importance. I very much agree that it is important to bottlenecks... I mention the fact that there is a huge amount of renewable energy generated in Portugal and Spain, but that the connection to the European energy network is limited. We must try to solve this as quickly as possible and we must try to stamp the hydrogen plants out of the ground as quickly as possible, but within the limits of what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. A friend in need won't leave you in the cold. It was only at the very last moment that the Prime Minister came to this realization and an international failure was prevented. Less than three weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that he considered the chances of Ukraine becoming a candidate country to be very low. The Netherlands stood behind the scenes as one of the largest cross-beams. Clamped by the big three, Scholz, Draghi and Macron, the cabinet decided to embrace the Commission's proposal and to vote for Ukraine's and Moldova's candidate countries. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister's resistance has yielded little. He has wasted precious political capital with this. But let us be clear: my group welcomes the Prime Minister's 180 degree turn. The Dutch people too, by a large majority, support this important step, a step which is particularly symbolic. The governments in Kiev and Chisinau still have a long way to go before there can be actual accession. Nevertheless, it is a heartfelt message to the people of these two countries, and above all a clear political signal to the dictator in the Kremlin. Mr. Chairman. I find it incomprehensible that we should keep the Georgian people out of sight. 120,000 Georgians met on Monday at the main square in Tbilisi, with EU flags, to make it clear that they have also made a choice: the choice to belong to the EU. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister why he considers it justified to make a different assessment in Georgia, referring to the political contradictions in the country. What signal do we send to Putin by abandoning the country that was still invaded by Russia in 2008? Can the Prime Minister confirm that if Georgia meets the criteria set, the Netherlands will wholeheartedly support the country's accession to the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mrs Piri's question on Georgia is justified. To what extent can you ask that same question about Bosnia, Albania or Kosovo? Do you understand that these countries feel passed? Shouldn't they also receive the same treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u33	I'll get back to the Balkans later. I do think that steps should be taken there too. As regards the Balkans, for example, the EU has decided to put Albania and Macedonia in the same basket. At first there were bokkades on Albania all the time, including from the Dutch government. So North Macedonia couldn't join. Then those blockades were gone, including those of France. Now there is another blockade of Bulgaria in Macedonia. With the situation in the Eastern Partnership, with the war, the invasion, from Russia, which has already taken military raids in all these three countries, I find it incomprehensible that you are not treating these three countries in the same way at the moment. So I think the answer is yes. Mr President, I shall continue. A region that is at least as important is the Western Balkans. It is important that a positive signal should be sent to these countries next week, also because support for the EU among the population in those countries is declining rapidly. Albania and northern Macedonia are the victims of the cumbersome way in which we take decisions in the EU. Skopje's been a candidate for 17 years. But the negotiations have still not started, because of a veto by Greece, and now one by Bulgaria. The Prime Minister has travelled to Bulgaria before, but what more does he want to do to convince Sofia to lift his blockade? Another positive signal that the Heads of Government can finally give is the granting of visa-free travel to the Kosovars, as the last country in the region. Since 2018 that country has met all technical criteria and there is no objective reason to exclude Kosovo from this. In fact, the current European Commission, led by Hungarian Commissioner Varhelyi, is doing everything in its power to promote Serbia. New chapters have even been opened with Vučić, while the rule of law is under increasing pressure. In this light, it is high time that the Council made a gesture to Kosovo. Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit himself to this? Mr. Chairman. It is a bit uncomfortable that EU leaders at the EU Summit want to focus on developing plans for the reconstruction of Ukraine, while the war there is still raging in all intensity. What the Ukrainians now need is more weapons to defend their country and new sanctions against Russia. Unfortunately, sanctions are not on the agenda. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister if he's willing to push for a seventh sanction package. I just heard two coalition parties refer to that as well. The draft conclusions also cover the recent renewed tensions between Greece and Turkey. That is understandable, given the very aggressive tone of President Erdogan and other Turkish politicians vis-à-vis the Athens government. As Turkey's rapporteur for the European Parliament, I spoke a lot with human rights defenders who complained that EU leaders were not making enough statements about developments in Turkey itself, such as the dismantling of the rule of law and the lack of freedom of the press. This seems to be the case again. I know the Prime Minister shares these concerns. Is he therefore prepared to raise this at the meeting with his European colleagues? Mr President, I will conclude. The step to offer Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia the European perspective is very important, but our credibility in the Western Balkans is really at stake. If, quite rightly, we demand strong reforms from candidate countries, then the EU must also keep its own promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u34	I have another question for Mrs Piri about Georgia. We have asked the European Commission to provide advice. They have looked at this thoroughly and assessed the situation in different countries on the basis of a variety of benchmarks. A differentiated opinion comes out of that. Of two countries, they say that candidate membership is already possible, but not of the third country. In fact, Mrs Piri says: I do not really care about this proposal or the opinion of the European Commission; I move that aside; I just want to give the political signal. Does it say that it does not really value the role of the European Commission as an objective assessor of what a country is like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you for this question. Funny that it comes from the VVD, because when Albania was given the green light of the European Commission for a very long time, on the basis of all the criteria, which, as Mr Brekelmans says, was 'objective', I think it was the VVD group that thought it should not happen. I now see a European Commission led, unfortunately, by a Hungarian Commissioner. I have seen in recent weeks that there has been a very large EPP lobby to treat Georgia differently from Moldova and Ukraine. There are political contradictions in Georgia. I am not saying that things are going very well there, but until very recently we also knew the same political contradictions in Ukraine. We know that in Moldova, too, pro-Russian and pro-European parties have alternated over the last few years. So yes, I have a different opinion on this than the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mrs Piri. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday we heard that Ukraine and Moldova could become candidates for membership of the European Union. The government has embraced this proposal. This is remarkable, because the government was initially very critical. The Prime Minister didn't talk about "no good discussion" very long ago. He said "it's time-consuming" and "let's focus on intensive cooperation." What's changed? There should be no misunderstanding: the SP strongly condemns Putin's actions in Ukraine. He's in a dirty war that can't be justified in any way. But the question is whether an EU candidate status is the right response. First of all, of course, it is a bit of a pacifier because actual membership can last for decades. So this move can also be a huge downer, as Mr Brekelmans rightly pointed out when his group was against it. See the Sjoerdsma motion of 31 March, which not only the VVD voted against, but also the CDA. The motion called for Ukraine to become a candidate for EU membership. I look forward to the statement of the new position of these two parties. However, a list of conditions that Ukraine needs to meet, such as reforming the rule of law and measures to tackle corruption, has been drawn up. That has been, say, the hand-off to critical Member States. What is striking is that Ukraine and Moldova can immediately become candidates without actually implementing these improvements. That was not the case for Bosnia, for example. In 2016, that country also received a list of fourteen points that had to be met, but before it became a candidate country. As a result, Ukraine and Moldova would pass Bosnia. How does the Minister view this preferential treatment? It shows that candidate membership is an extremely political issue. And it just happened: Georgia's demand is, of course, similar to that for Bosnia. There are just countries that feel passed by. There's now an interview with someone from Kosovo in the NRC. How's the government handling that? Mr. Chairman. Then a more factual question. Will Ukraine now also be entitled to pre-accession aid? Can the Prime Minister say a little more about that? Mr. Chairman. The war will be an important argument for bringing Ukraine to the EU, but that also raises questions. For example, how does the government look at the fact that a country cannot be at war under the conditions of membership? Are Member States obliged to defend Ukraine if it joins? Can the Prime Minister comment on Article 42 of the Treaty of Lisbon? It states that the EU must provide assistance when a country is at war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr Van Dijk is doing a round of Europe and is drawing up a list of which countries and which countries are not. But the most important thing I thought was his remark that candidate membership would be a pacifier. Can Mr Van Dijk explain that? We are in an EU of 27 countries. In the past, countries have also been granted candidate status. And yes, meeting the Copenhagen criteria takes a long time. A country must implement all European legislation. But why does Mr Van Dijk say here in this house: candidate membership is a pacifier? Can you back that up a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u39	Yes. Eight countries are now waiting to join the EU. I call Turkey. That country has been moving towards the EU for decades. But there are, quite rightly, serious doubts as to whether that is wise. Turkey is a candidate country, but membership is not in it for the time being. This, of course, means that candidate membership is, in a sense, a pacifier, regardless of whether membership of Turkey is desirable. Kosovo, Albania and northern Macedonia have just passed by. And Bosnia, not to mention. They are all countries that are being kept on a leash in a sense. I understand the symbolic value of this step, but Ukraine is not about to become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u40	I know Mr Van Dijk as a good debater...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u42	...but I expected a stronger argument. He uses Turkey as an example and says that it would be a pacifier. No, Turkey is not holding back... The first chapter has been opened, and we are not yet ready. Albania and northern Macedonia do. I believe that many Member States have said that these countries could now join. We have a problem to solve with Bulgaria. There is also a handout to be made. So again the same question: why do you think this is a pacifier for Ukraine, for Moldova and perhaps for Georgia in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u43	Ukraine is currently in a terrible war. We are now going to make a country in war a candidate for membership of the EU. I understand the symbolic value of this, and I also have a great deal of understanding and support for Ukraine, because it is suffering from Russia. But the question is whether accession to the European Union is now the right step. I am following the Prime Minister, who said a month ago: let us focus on other forms of cooperation with Ukraine. Let there be no misunderstanding, because I do not want to distance myself from that country at all, but you can also look at variants of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u44	I hear Mr Jasper van Dijk asking the rhetorical question all the time: is it wise to do this now? But I do not yet know exactly what Mr Van Dijk's position is. If France, Italy, Germany, and also critical countries such as Denmark, Portugal and Austria say in the EU 'we are going to do this now', what is your advice to the Prime Minister? To veto it in our face?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u45	Yeah, I'm asking a lot of questions. You are right to say that it is a rhetorical question: is it wise to make Ukraine a candidate now, which raises a lot of questions? I don't think it's wise. I think it is better to focus on other forms of cooperation with Ukraine for many reasons. I was halfway through my speech, so a few more are coming along.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u46	To make it clear. So the SP's appeal is: Dutch government, veto this decision as the only one in the European Union and do not give candidate membership to Ukraine and Moldova.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yes. Even if there were other countries involved, I would have said the same thing. It doesn't really matter. For example, I also follow Minister Hoekstra, who said a month ago in response to the Sjoerdsma motion to make Ukraine a candidate: the European Commission is focusing on variants; then we are discussing this. Prime Minister Rutte said: let us strengthen the Eastern Partnership, let us look at the Council of Europe and let us look at the OSCE. Those are very sensible opinions, which the Prime Minister has left. We will hear about them later, but which I would really like to work out. Mr. Chairman. Then there is support within the EU itself. How does the government view enlargement fatigue? Six countries were still involved in the establishment. The EU now has 27 members. Maybe we'll add eight more. Then you're on 35 countries. That is, of course, at the expense of decision-making. Look also at the problems within the EU, such as Poland and Hungary, which trample on the rule of law. How real is it then to allow new countries to join? Is it not better to put things in order first within the EU and look at other forms of cooperation, for example within the Council of Europe? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the war and the commitment to peace negotiations. I'm tasting two lines to come up with a peace agreement. One line is: Russia must leave Ukraine completely. The other line is: Ukraine indicates when a peace agreement is feasible and desirable. What exactly is the Prime Minister's line? Mr. Chairman. What about guns? On May 19, Prime Minister Rutte said: "I don't see it happening that we're going to send more weapons. There are limits to what you can deliver." How am I supposed to see that in relation to last week's Sjoerdsma motion to deliver more weapons? Mr. Chairman. What about the European Peace Fund? In the meantime, EUR 2.5 billion has to go there. The budget is being pushed forward completely. Could you explain what is being bought of that money? Is it still real to increase that budget about every month? Finally, Mr President. How does the cabinet feel that the 2016 Association Agreement played a major role for the European Commission in this process? Was it not our Prime Minister who said that this treaty was absolutely not a prelude to enlargement? In fact, he said Ukraine would never become a member of the EU. That's what he said on March 30, 2016. Mr. Chairman. The Conference on the Future of Europe will also be discussed at the European Summit. Is this government committed to a treaty change, like many other Member States? We also see opportunities for another European Treaty. Then we will strengthen the independence of the countries, increase the participation of citizens and give the Member States more powers of their own. As a blow to the head, you can present this to the public by referendum. Wouldn't that be a good way to increase European involvement? Mr. Chairman. A worrying situation has arisen in Kaliningrad because Lithuania has said that we are no longer going to allow trains from Russia to Kaliningrad. There are many imaginable arguments for this. Will this also be discussed at the European Summit? Is there any anticipation of Russia's reaction, which is threatened with 'appropriate measures'? What will Europe do if Russia confronts Lithuania directly? Mr. Chairman. I have another question about the European Semester. Is the government prepared to take on board the opinion of the Council of State that there should be tailor-made work on a country-by-country basis in relation to the Stability and Growth Pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer, PVV. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union is next in line. She asked if she could speak earlier. She has done so in consultation with colleagues. I call Mrs Maeijer from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every crisis is being abused by Brussels to mess us up a little further into the United States of Europe: a union where the Netherlands has to pay a lot of taxpayers' money, in which we give more and more control. Since the corona crisis, we seem to have accelerated. Two years ago, just before the summer, the EU's greatest coup d'état took place in years. A corona repair fund of EUR 750 billion was launched, consisting of loans and grants. An EU multi-annual budget of €1,000 billion was created. A number of unelected Eurocrats were also empowered to make and borrow debts on the capital market. It was decided to introduce new own resources. Quite a few ticks could be added to the European Commission's wish list. It's two years later now. Of course, they haven't been idle. In the meantime, proposals for a European Health Union, a Digital Union, a Climate Union, a European Digital Passport, a European area for health data, the opening of negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia and Croatia's accession to the euro area have emerged. It's not gonna stop. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet does not stand in the way of the European Commission. Rutte IV even seems to be running an active campaign to get rid of our right of veto over foreign policy. The Prime Minister travels around the EU to pave the way for the opening of accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia and Croatia's accession to the euro area. And now, as my colleague De Roon said aptly, the vultures are circling over the battlefield in Ukraine. A crisis is the moment to push the EU's own agenda of greater power. The call for an EU army sounded again, as did the call for a treaty change to give Brussels more powers. European Union expansion is also high on the bucket list of the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen. Already Serbia, Montenegro, Turkey, Albania, North Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo were in the waiting room for the coveted EU membership. Von der Leyen took an advance on the future of an enlarged European Union in Trouw yesterday. Then we need to talk about reforms, such as how to proceed with the requirement of unanimity in decisions. That's what's left of our control. Mr. Chairman. On 28 February 2022 Ukraine also expressed its wish to become a member of the European Union. President Zelensky even asked the EU for a new, special procedure to admit the country directly as a member. Moldova and Georgia followed. The European Commission, through its President, accepted the applications. Prime Minister Rutte then said: "I do not think that is a good discussion at the moment. We do not think that expressing the desirability of this is going to help resolve this conflict." A motion on the granting of candidate membership to Ukraine was still rejected by a majority of the Chamber on 31 March. Mr. Chairman. With steam and boiling water, the European Commission has started to make a judgement. There is no such thing as an emergency procedure, as we are told. But the fact that the European Commission wants to have decided on a new step at a record rate is beyond question. According to her president, it does not have to end there. We read yesterday in Trouw: "Other countries can also speed up their accession process if they want." Mr. Chairman. Of course, it wasn't a surprise that Von der Leyen came up with last Friday. Smoothly dressed in the colors of Ukraine, she reported that the country should be granted candidate status, just like Moldova. The Prime Minister promised the Netherlands the following in 2017: "I will always resist Ukraine's membership in any case." In the same debate, he said: "So I am opposed to EU membership, now or in the future, of Ukraine." The same Prime Minister is now talking about "a sensible decision to grant the country candidate status." A new addition to the list of broken promises. After all, Rutte always signs at the cross. In Brussels, a country will be welcomed as a candidate, which was previously seen as "a hiding place for criminals and oligarchs," as a newspaper recently described. A country that stands in place 122 out of 180 on the corruption index. A country where billions of European taxpayers' money to fight corruption disappeared in the same corrupt pockets, according to the European Court of Auditors. A country that is also engaged in a terrible war. "Our war," the Prime Minister even says about it now. Let us be clear: the Netherlands is not at war. The Prime Minister can't just explain that. We're not, but we're getting messed up like this. Mr President, I will conclude. Where the PVV is, I think it's clear. We would rather leave the European Union today than tomorrow, but as long as we are still in it, we are opposed to this ever-increasing expansion drive of the European Union. No further transfer of powers, no further enlargement of the European Union and no further steps in this direction. It's bad for our control and bad for our wallet. I therefore call on this cabinet not to agree to hand out new candidates or to take new steps towards membership and to oppose any further transfer of powers. But I'm afraid this call is addressed to deaf ears. So I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister what his message is to all those people who voted in majority against the EU association agreement with Ukraine. The people who told the Prime Minister that this was not an adaptation to membership and who then promised the Prime Minister his personal opposition to Ukraine's membership of the EU at the time and in the future. The people who feel cheated because the Prime Minister has broken another promise, because the first step towards that coveted membership will be taken now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u50	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u52	Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u53	I assume for a moment that the PVV does not like the invasion of Russia in Ukraine and does not want to be associated with it in any way. But my question to the PVV is next. What measures has the PVV proposed or supported, either in support of Ukraine or to ensure that Russia stops the war?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u54	I am standing here to give a voice to the people who voted PVV. I am standing here on behalf of the Commission, and I was also speaking on behalf of the European Union to express their concern about an ever-expanding European Union, about the ever-expanding transfer of powers, about the transfer of control and about what that means for our wallet. That's what I stand for. And of course, that war is terrible and my colleague here has condemned it several times. But let's be, we've been four months and that terrible war is still raging. The destruction goes on and on. Let us also look at what this means to the people of this country in the meantime. And that's what I'm standing here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u55	I was actually hoping for an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u56	That was the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u57	If I ask what measures the PVV has supported or submitted in support of Ukraine or to ensure that Russia stops the war, then I just want an answer to that question. Then I do not need a general speech and I do not need a repeat of Mrs Maeijer's speech. I would like an answer to that specific question: what measures? If Mrs Maeijer comes up with that general story again, then I think we should note that the PVV has not supported any measure and has not proposed any measure, and that she is now again using this debate, which is about the atrocities that are taking place in Ukraine, for example, just to talk about the usual PVV wheel. I ask you once again: have you done something for Ukraine and have you done something against Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u58	I'm really talking about my own answer and my own input. I said what I stand for and what my input was about. I am here on behalf of the PVV to express the concerns that our voters have about the ever-increasing transfer of powers. Yes, you can laugh, Mr Sjoerdsma, you can laugh and pretend that that is nothing, but with all the measures you have supported, that war is still raging and sitting in our country and our people are now in an energy crisis and an asylum crisis and more and more people are unable to pay the bills. You have no eye for that, and it stings me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u59	I am laughing mainly because it is so predictable and at the same time a bit sad, because everyone in this Chamber has an eye for the consequences of that war. Everyone, every fraction, from the SP to your party, the PVV, and everything in between. Moreover, the cabinet also, with very far-reaching measures to compensate for energy costs, to reduce VAT on energy and perhaps even more measures, following the Spring paper, which we will have to see in the coming weeks what that will yield. So that reproach doesn't make any sense. I have to say, however, that it hurts, just as Mr Baudet's interruptions hurt, to see a party in this Chamber who cannot speak with a single word about what it has done to support Ukraine and the people who are being shot daily. Every day it's about as many casualties as our MH17 disaster. The PVV has also done nothing to put pressure on Russia to stop. The PVV has not taken any action. The Dutch, for whom the PVV claims to stand up, must ask themselves whether the Netherlands is still safe with such a party. That's the point. It's about our safety. It's about our freedom. If you refuse to see that, if you wish to step over it or if you only want to tell your own story a third time, you can and you are free to do so; if it is your own answer, then your voter will have no use at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs Maeijer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u61	I don't hear a new question in itself. And, yes, the PVV voter is also concerned about his safety. That is certainly the case because last Friday the Prime Minister announced that this is also our war. That is something that Mr Sjoerdsma has just fully embraced. Our people are very, very concerned about that, Mr. Sjoerdsma; absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I would like to ask Members to speak through the President. I do not want to do that for everyone, but note in general terms: please speak through the President. I call Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Madam President. In the winter of 2013-2014 Maidan Square in Kiev flooded with Ukrainians demanding change in the cutting cold. They demanded an end to corruption. They wanted to get closer to Europe. They wanted good health care. They wanted good education. It became a bloody rebellion. People died there, too. A few years later, I walked in that loaded place, on the hill where the victims died and are remembered. I was there with two political friends from Belarus and Georgia who had also brought food and blankets for the people at Maidan Square. They did that to support them. Mr. Chairman. The determination of the Ukrainian people, of the people who were willing to die for their ideals and had the deep desire to belong to Europe, struck me deeply. It did then, but it still does now. Once again, people in Ukraine die every day fighting for their values, for freedom and for a sovereign country that is free to make its own choice. That fight affects all of us. In our society, too, I see the commitment. Last week there was a group of volunteers from the Netherlands in Irpin to contribute to the reconstruction of houses and the distribution of food after the battle that took place there. Irpin is close to Kiev and Boetsja. The volunteers contributed to recovery and reconstruction, while there is still fierce fighting in other places and the struggle is still ongoing. It also reminded me of the words that President Zelensky said in our parliament: "Choose a city that you want to rebuild, so that we really feel your support." I ask the government, which I believe has embraced this, what opportunities it sees to contribute to it and to shape it. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union supports the line that Ukraine will have a perspective on membership of the European Union by granting candidate status at the moment. By offering them this perspective, we also show that the country is not alone. There is also strong support among the Ukrainian people. This support among the population means that there is the right social pressure to carry out the necessary reforms. The pressure from above, from the EU, to meet the conditions is necessary. At the same time, the population can encourage Ukrainian leadership to take the right steps. Because reforms are needed, even there. I've seen there myself that that's necessary. Candidate membership is subject to firm conditions. According to the Commission, Ukraine would have already implemented 70% of the rules, but they are not yet there. The rule of law, the fight against corruption and the free press must also be well served. So there is still a great deal to do for Ukraine. The European bar is high. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, there are no goat paths. Does the government agree? How does the government intend to ensure that the follow-up process takes place on its merits? With that in mind, the line of opinion of the European Commission and also of cabinet juice is sensible. The same applies to Moldova, which has a similar task to Ukraine. Georgia clearly has bigger steps to take. Therefore, it is wise to allow the country to move more towards the EU before a candidate is granted membership. Here, too, the Christian Union supports the line that the cabinet has set in motion. Mr. Chairman. Today it becomes very clear and visible that many concerns live among our farmers. Knowing that Ukraine is the world's grain barn but also knows many livestock farmers, I ask the government what these steps mean for our agriculture in terms of the level playing field and the high standards we apply in our agriculture. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union sees the European Union as a community of value and not above all as a functional intergovernmental organisation in which we work economically together and can strengthen each other geopolitically. A principle such as freedom, but also values such as democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law is what we share. But that value community is under pressure, already at the moment, in the European Union. I am thinking of Poland, where I note that last week the Netherlands was alone with a abstention on the allocation of the 36 billion from the Recovery Fund. In the meantime, accession talks are taking place in the Western Balkans, with questions such as the rule of law, democracy, independent justice, corruption and freedom of the press as major issues and as hiccups in those talks. My question to the Prime Minister is how he sees the European force field in this. I would remind you that last week the Netherlands was on its own with regard to Poland. How does the Prime Minister intend to use this force field to protect the constitutional nature of our value community? What opportunities, but also what challenges does he face? What position does the Netherlands choose in this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. These are special times for the inhabitants of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. I also know that they are watching in our Chamber today, but of course everyone is watching what is happening in Europe and in the capitals. Mr. Chairman. This week's European summit will have an historic character, and we will have to consider the candidate status of Ukraine and Moldova in the European Union. Today I would like to outline the position of the CDA on accession and then comment on the Conference on the Future of Europe and the Wider Europe initiative of Macron. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have been critical of further enlargement of the European Union, because, in addition to broadening the Union, it is also important to anchor and ensure the deepening and integration of the Union's values in the Member States. We would like to seek a good balance between deepening the Union, uniformity in compliance with the Brussels rules, including the Copenhagen criteria, and the individual identities of the countries. This also includes the fact that the countries that are already members, such as Poland and Hungary, are fulfilling their obligations and that we, the Netherlands, are initiating infringement proceedings if Member States fail to fulfil their obligations and responsibilities. If you're a member of a club, you follow the rules of that club. Mr. Chairman. The outbreak of the war in Ukraine calls for a renewed look at Europe. A view that goes beyond the European market and also focuses on the values and forces of the European community. We must strive for a strong Europe within which we can address each other but also understand each other. Here, too, there is an important role for the Netherlands, where we must also reflect on our own attitude within Europe: deepening the Union and the countries around us, so that we understand each other better and form a strong and decisive community. The current situation calls for a renewed look at the accession of Ukraine and Moldova. Peace and stability on the European continent are at stake, and that is what we are very concerned about. It is not just about the technical aspects, but also about geopolitics. It is important to stand with the Union as a whole in support of Ukraine and to remain in solidarity. It is precisely now that a strong and uniform decision-making process is needed, in which the Netherlands should not be the only one to block the decision. Doing nothing is not an option, but within the existing Copenhagen criteria and procedures. Mr. Chairman. EU enlargement has proved to be the most effective way of promoting democracy, peace, the rule of law and stability on the European continent. It is a deeply rooted desire of Ukraine to become a member of the European Union. They have already taken some steps in the right direction in recent years through, among other things, the Association Treaty and reforms. This is partly because the EU is working with the candidates to meet the Copenhagen criteria. In the current context, the CDA welcomes membership of Ukraine and Moldova. We are also in favour of offering Georgia a perspective. In doing so, we note the geographical location and the existence of a democratic backsliding effect, which poses challenges for Georgia. We are therefore wondering how Georgia will fit within the Union, given the challenges that this could bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u66	In itself, I welcome the position of the CDA. It is very good that it expresses support for the accession of Ukraine and Moldova. I am curious to see where the turning point for the CDA was in this judgment. Did that point come after the European Commission delivered its opinion? Or had you made a decision before, with yourself and in your own party, in view of what is happening? You may also respond to major, far-reaching, global events, I believe. Can you explain that to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u67	Of course I can explain that. In the run-up to where we are today, we have already had several other debates and different General Affairs Councils. Of course, you look at what is happening in Europe and you look into it. You have conversations with people. I think I said a month ago that the CDA would look at the European Commission's opinion with a positive basis. I also said that we should take a serious look at what is going to come out of it. When you make such an important decision, you don't go ice cream in one night. But we'll take everything. That is why I am also saying here today, and for the CDA, this is an important point of reference, which goes together with deepening. At the same time, I think it is very important on the other axis that the Netherlands looks very closely at its position within Europe. By that I mean that we should not always land on the no-side, but that we should be constructive. In the RRF event, for example, the cabinet says it is abstaining. This position is strong, but it is a constructive attitude within Europe, with 27 Member States. If we do not, then we will not be able to act. We can't always just be right about ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u68	I think that is a wonderful argument: the others want it, so we must want it. Last week it was indeed about the Restoration Fund and the rule of law in Poland. I also said with colleagues: no, the Netherlands should keep its back straight and just tell Poland that this is not possible. I'm going to continue with Van der Lee's justified question. On 31 March, the CDA will vote against the motion "make Ukraine a candidate member of the EU." On March 31, there was also a terrible war going on. Do you recognize that you've just turned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u69	First of all, the first comment. Mr Van Dijk challenges me in his introduction. He says we do this because other countries want to. That's a very flat line of reasoning. We'll make our own decision. We also had a nice EPP congress. Our fellow Christian Democrats in Europe are also making their own assessment. We're not as big as the SP, which is against everything. No, with an open mind and with a positive basic attitude, we are looking at this issue. Then the point of March 31st. The Councils have asked the European Commission to look at these dossiers and to come forward with opinions. Of course, then you can ride them full in the wheels, but you can also let the Commission do its job. I think we have gone through a very careful, just process. I was actually expecting Mr Van Dijk to make a spin, but he is not yet. But what isn't can still come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u70	No, we're gonna turn it around to the CDA. It is still an extremely opportunistic argument that is being used here. On 31 March, the CDA said: a candidate for membership for Ukraine is not wise. We had to find other ways to work together. Today, the CDA says something quite different, I think, because the government has also begun to find something else. But be honest about that. And if you say that you are doing it because those other countries want it, then we also know what the basis for your arguments is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u71	I think this is a repeat of what I have just said to Mr Van der Lee. In the debates I think Mr Van Dijk was there I said how the CDA has behaved, with a constructive and positive attitude towards what is happening in Europe, towards Ukraine, towards Moldova and towards Georgia. We have even talked about the position of northern Macedonia and Albania, which is being blocked. We'll talk about that later. We are looking at this with an open mind, in order to find constructive solutions to it. It is too flat for me to say that there was a statement on 31 March and that you should never look at what is happening in Europe again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u72	I have also seen this constructive attitude of the CDA over the past few weeks. I also read Mr Amhaouch's blog. In that he says that it is still a long way for Ukraine. That is true, but it is also an important and historic step. I know that's what you're standing for. How wise do you think that our Prime Minister has resisted until the very last moment and has not turned until the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u73	If we are going to take everyone in Parliament into account, I have a bit of a problem with that. We would like to have the debate in this House. I think the blame has always been as follows. If everything is poured into concrete when we come here, then we go with the same way. I can tell by the body language that Mr. Van Dijk is laughing. So we have achieved nothing. The cabinet makes its own assessment, the prime minister makes his own assessment and the CDA makes its own assessment. I think that the war that is now taking place calls for a renewed look from the Netherlands at Europe. That is exactly what I meant by a new look at Europe, apart from Ukraine. You cannot always just land on the no-side, but you have to look very closely at what is happening so that you can continue to exert influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you. A final question from Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u75	I certainly agree with the latter. But let's face it. Whether you read the Financial Times, Politico Europe or the Dutch newspapers, it was clear in recent weeks: behind the scenes this Prime Minister was one of the last opponents of this step. And today we are sitting here and the cabinet, through the Prime Minister, will soon defend why it is taking this step. Then you can't deny that a turn has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'm the CDA spokesman for European affairs, not the Prime Minister's ambassador. Secondly, I think that in recent weeks the cabinet has listened very carefully to what the parties in the Chamber think. We've had several debates. In my opinion, there was a constructive attitude from various parties, who indicated which direction the Netherlands should be heading. If the cabinet finally embraces it, for whatever reason, then I think that is a good starting point. I'd be surprised if the cabinet had done it differently. I look at Mrs Piri, because she is at the back and Mr Kuzu is already at the microphone with his broad back. I think we are on the same page of the game, I say to Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u77	I would like to continue on the CDA's point of view rather than that of the cabinet. I do not mind at all if a political party changes its mind on the basis of insights gained. I often think: "If only I had said so" or "If only I had taken another step." That's okay at all! But I wonder what has happened in recent times, which has led you to different insights. Can you take us in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u78	Oh, yeah. A candidate membership is something other than a membership. That's what's required. We received the letter from the cabinet, which states that the European Commission, in its appreciation, makes seven demands on Ukraine, nine demands on Moldova and twelve on Georgia. With all the pluses and minuses, with that balance, with the clear statement made by the CDA, we dare to apply for membership with those demands, in the geopolitical situation we are in with Europe. We would like to continue with that. We have often said that there will be a huge task for the Netherlands and for Europe for the reconstruction of Ukraine. This may be a win-win situation if we also help Ukraine rebuild its infrastructure and rebuild the rule of law, in order to meet the Copenhagen criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u79	On that last point, on the reconstruction and development of the rule of law, a broad majority in the Chamber agrees with Mr Amhaouch. I do not think that there is a difference of opinion. Back a little bit, though. On 31 March, a motion was tabled for Ukraine to become a candidate for membership. The CDA voted against it. There's a difference between candidate membership and membership. That hasn't changed in recent times. My question was very explicit about what has changed. On 31 March there was talk of candidate membership. Now we are still talking about candidate membership. After this, all the conditions relating to the acquis to join the European Union must be negotiated. So I am explicitly asking what has really changed in the CDA's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u80	What has changed is that there is now an appreciation of the European Commission. We will be consistent, even in the future, if there are parties who think: we will put another motion on the table and then let parties at an early stage confess colour by having them say whether they are for or against. No, we'll vote against that motion, based on the ratio that you have to go through the process carefully. Otherwise, it's very flattering politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u81	In any case, it is a good thing that the CDA is in favour. I hear Mr Amhaouch several times in his speech stressing the need for more deepening, for greater understanding of each other's positions within Europe and between Europeans, for more constructive consideration to be given and not to say no immediately. The European Parliament has made a fine proposal to ensure that transnational electoral lists are created, precisely for that deepening, for that understanding and for the constructive debate to be better conducted. The CDA opposes that. I wonder what then is the floor the CDA sees in front of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u82	As far as we are concerned, the floor is certainly not in the transnational lists. I think that was also the case with the Home Office yesterday. What it's in for the CDA is this. We now have 27 Member States. Given who is now a candidate, a number of countries will be added in the future. This means that you need to reconsider how you can continue to act decisively in the future. For example, the veto on security is very important for Europe, but with 30 or 32 countries you do not want it. I think that's an important floor. You have to think very carefully about implementing the rule of law. If countries meet all the criteria and become members of the European Union, but continue to defend themselves against the rules we have agreed on the rule of law, then perhaps you should think carefully about an instrument with which you can draw a line. That's important. Floor means that if you're gonna get a little bigger, you're gonna have to make a move in order to keep operating. Otherwise we in Europe will be held hostage by one or two countries. You don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u84	EU enlargement has proved to be the most effective way of promoting democracy, peace, the rule of law and stability on the European continent. It is a deeply rooted desire of Ukraine to become a member of the European Union. Mr President, I think I repeat myself. I just need to take a leap. With each status and every perspective, the Copenhagen criteria must remain guiding. Every perspective must be accompanied by respect for rights and obligations by the candidate countries. There should be no shortcuts or a priority position for Ukraine: equal monks, equal caps. Giving perspective in this crucial period is an historic moment. Ukraine and the Member States have a major task in the coming years and a joint responsibility to give substance to this opinion. It is precisely where peace and security are at stake that we must stand up. We must monitor Ukraine's progress and provide support. The reconstruction of Ukraine must be accompanied by hard and gentle reconstruction of infrastructure, economy, but also the rule of law. This way we can build the content together. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the accession perspective for Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, we must not forget that North Macedonia and Albania have been waiting for accession for years. We also have a perspective for these countries to ensure that Europe does justice to those countries that wish to join the European value community, without taking careless steps. We therefore call on the Cabinet to play an active role in the mediation and mediation between Bulgaria and northern Macedonia. Bulgaria and northern Macedonia are brother countries that have to give each other a hand, rather than an active blockade on the part of Bulgaria. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Conference on the Future of Europe. We agree with the importance of deepening the Union. Therefore, the recommendations that are really needed now and which can be implemented without a treaty could already be settled. However, we must be critical and vigilant about the changes we want to make. Not all recommendations need to be taken over without a hitch. This also applies to the debate on the Treaty amendment. There should be room for matters which need to be regulated and desirable through a treaty amendment. Here too, however, there is a need to consider clearly whether a treaty amendment is desirable for each recommendation. I ask the Prime Minister: is there any possibility of receiving an appreciation per recommendation? We would also like to see consideration being given to the possibility of removing candidate countries and Member States from the accession process or the Union if the Treaty is to be broken. There are also issues that will need a treaty change. This must be a start for our successive generations. The current leaders have a responsibility here, to make the European Union future-proof. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Finally, I would like to draw attention to Macron's initiative for a Wider Europe. Very little is known about this initiative. That is why we should first like to clarify Wider Europe. Is this a replacement of EU membership or association agreements? How does Turkey fit into this? And does Africa fit into this? And the most important question: what will Wider Europe add to the complex system that already exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. I would like to welcome my neighbours from this place: the ambassadors of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. Welcome to our Parliament! Mr. Chairman. The strength of the European Union is also its weakness. It is good that European leaders go to Brussels and try to reach agreement on many issues. But isn't it really frustrating when you know that when it comes to it, such a summit is every time disturbed by a number of Member States that behave like teenagers and do not take it so closely with agreements on, for example, the rule of law, for which they have signed themselves? Isn't that corn on the mill of Vladimir Putin and his people? Shouldn't decision-making mechanisms be completely revised, especially now that there is a possibility of enlargement of the Union? Putin's aggression versus the heroism and ingenuity of the Ukrainians spurs a dormant Europe to action. We deliver weapons, we commit ourselves to sanctions. But we have also seen in recent weeks that Ukrainian officials have been shutting down the doors in The Hague and the Netherlands and asking for help in obtaining the European Union's candidate membership. At that time it was Minister Kaag who said in March that the Netherlands will not be obstructed when it comes to Ukraine's accession to the EU. On the other hand, however, in Brussels, the Prime Minister was most opposed to membership. I wonder: has the cabinet spoken with one voice in recent months? Where does the Prime Minister's turn come from? Where exactly was the turning point? Mr. Chairman. It is becoming increasingly clear that Putin is using hunger as a weapon. The Russian blockade of millions of tonnes of grain in Ukraine is a real war crime. That's what EU foreign chief Borrell said the day before yesterday. To solve the international food crisis, Europe comes up with the concept of solidarity lanes. Every effort is being made to transport 20 million tonnes of stored grain from Ukraine over a period of three months. This is really necessary, because the Russians have started the big grain robbery. Ukrainian grain is stolen and shipped to Syria for Putin's puppet Assad. Meanwhile, Ukrainian drivers are waiting days at the Polish border before they leave the country. Isn't the solution really just very simple? Facilitate border controls for grain trucks at the border of Poland. Mr. Chairman. Ukraine is on its way to becoming a candidate for membership of the European Union. My group strongly encourages this. The same applies to the status of Moldova and Georgia. But how unfair is this for the Western Balkan countries, which have been in the waiting room for years? The speed and goodwill of the Ukrainians are in stark contrast to the long-standing dawdling of the efforts of the Western Balkan countries to belong to the European family. Albania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Northern Macedonia have been candidates for membership of the EU for many years. And the status of Kosovo will not be agreed. How credible is it that the European Union is generously opening the door to Ukraine and keeping the Western Balkans waiting forever? In 2003, these countries were promised membership. Almost twenty years later, only one country was called in from the waiting room. That's Croatia. My group therefore notes that there is a lack of commitment from Brussels to the follow-up process. Giving the region the feeling that it is being abandoned is risky, given the past. The alternative is for countries like Serbia to focus on Russia. How will the Prime Minister promote the EU perspective of the countries I mentioned earlier, such as Bosnia, Albania and Montenegro? As the Prime Minister has an appointment with the Bosnian Prime Minister, I ask him what the consequences will be if Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia continue to undermine Bosnia's stability. Mr President, the final point. We are in an energy crisis and all the bits that contribute to remedying this are of added value. This argument for importing gas from Israel is proudly brought to the citizens of Europe. Apparently, Rutte and the other European leaders: one occupier is not the other occupier. Everyone's mad at Putin for occupying Ukraine. And that's right. But a state that has occupied Palestine for 55 years is rewarded with trade agreements and energy contracts. Apparently Rutte and the other European leaders, when you are called Israel, are allowed to shoot journalists without any consequence, torture children in prisons, build illegal settlements and run a regime of apartheid against Palestinians, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch said. Today we also have a cabinet that is convinced that maintaining the old, unbelievable message of balanced relations with Israel and the Palestinians is important. It's disgusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u88	What I find appalling is that Mr Kuzu is putting forward a whole charge against Israel while we are talking about Ukraine and enlargement. Is this Mr Kuzu's tone when it comes to that? You're pissing yourself off. I see you're getting angry. You're looking the other way now. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr Eppink really needs to do better to get me angry, because I'm not gonna be that easy. I believe that I have devoted just about 80% of my speaking time to Ukraine and all the terrible things that are happening there. This debate concerns a European summit, Mr Eppink. A European summit will also address issues that affect the European Union. One of these issues is that the European Union recently signed a contract with Israel. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, this issue can very well be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u91	I'm closing up. This cabinet is well aware that it is partly responsible for maintaining injustice when it concludes contracts with an apartheid state, using the financial benefits of advanced weapons that will kill even more Palestinian journalists, killing even more innocent Palestinian citizens and being displaced by even more Palestinians. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: be a man, be brave and veto that energy contract with Israel. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr. Chairman. I am glad to announce that I am also speaking on behalf of BBB. Mrs van der Plas is in Stroe, as you know, and we have recently been working closely together. Mr. Chairman. About 20 years ago, a rule of thumb was applied in Brussels for the enlargement of the European Union: the EU goes where the Eurovision Song Contest goes. At first there was a common rhythm, as in the first six countries of the European Community. But meanwhile, the Eurovision Song Contest jumps out of sight with a country like Australia. The EU itself must now seek the borders of Europe and the opportunities for European integration. How'd that go with Turkey? In 1999, the Helsinki European Summit decided that Turkey would become a candidate country. I worked at the European Commission at the time. Three Commissioners went to Turkey to share the good news. In 2003...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u94	Before you continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr President, we are now having a debate on the European summit, on terrible things happening in Ukraine and Russia, and Mr Eppink is talking about the Eurovision Song Contest! Can he get to the core?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u96	I am talking about Turkey and Turkey's accession. I think that's the point, Mr. Kuzu. Moreover, Mr Erdogan was even declared European of the year in 2003. But the process soured, which led to anger and frustration on both sides. They've been going on for decades. Cause: the hasty offering of candidate membership, too high expectations, too many promises. And the process is now bogged down. Mr. Chairman. The EU has reached the limits of integration. Internal differences within the EU are increasing. For example, there are north and south with the euro and east and west in many constitutional issues. In politics you should never say "never," but now offering candidate membership would be unwise. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether, with Ukraine as a candidate, we are not at risk of getting into the same situation as with Turkey. I see the Prime Minister's already looking that up on his new smartphone. What can we do? We want to do a lot for Ukraine, as I assure the Ukrainian ambassador. We want to help against this terrible aggression from Russia, some kind of nineteenth-century robbery and raid across a country. There must certainly be an international instrument to help Ukraine rebuild, especially in order to raise the necessary capital, as this will require hundreds of billions. But unfortunately, we're not there yet. In the case of arms aid, the question always arises as to where the border lies. Are we delivering a tailor-made conflict, or are we feeding a conflict that is going to be a blow to exhaustion and will last for many years, with a lot of consequences, including for the home front in the Netherlands? In addition, it is a diplomatic route, because at the end Ukraine must be freed from this terrible situation. That is why my question to the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister, I presume, see Putin's only experienced expert in this Chamber as a diplomatic path? The Prime Minister said earlier that this war is "our war." However, it is a war between Ukraine and Russia, with the second as an aggressor. Not a war with the Netherlands or NATO, because that would be disastrous, because this could escalate to an atomic war. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to return to the home front, because if this is "our war," then we are the home front. Most members of the permanent foreign affairs committee are not on the permanent finance committee. Only maybe. At least I am in it and I see the big difference with the Foreign Minister, Mr Hoekstra. He travels the world joyfully and enjoys his new job. Nor is he homesick about the Ministry of Finance, where there is another reality: rapidly rising inflation, loss of purchasing power and a threatening recession. That is also the reality that forces itself on our citizens. They pay the price of "our war"; not the prime minister, I think. He's not talking. Mr. Chairman. Finally, an unmentioned aspect of Ukrainian candidate membership. Ukraine, or Moldova, is culturally a conservative country, with 44 million people also a large country. The country has the right to be conservative. In fact, Ukraine is a second Poland, which the cabinet so much loves. The centre of the EU is shifting east, a more culturally conservative east. I don't have a problem with that. However, our esteemed colleague Sjoerdsma will have a lot of work to do in the near future to correct these eastern Member States on matters such as the rule of law. I wish him every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mr Piri has already expressed to a large extent what I would have liked to say, and that is not surprising either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u100	Yes. I'd like to start with a compliment. But I still have a number of things to add, because there is a lot at stake. Big words suffer from inflation, especially in this Chamber. But there really was a historic event in Europe on 24 February. It has led us and others to different insights. My group was one of the parties that indicated in March that it was important to send out the message of European Union membership, because Ukraine indicated its desire for membership four days after this brutal raid. The symbolic value of this candidate membership is enormous. I think that GroenLinks was the first person in this Chamber to point out the importance of sending that signal. We did have a vote. It may have come a little too early because perhaps each party should have its own historical changes. I also agree and I acknowledge that Mr Amhaouch has already mentioned this positive basic attitude in previous debates. But I do hear in his final answer that the European Commission's opinion was decisive for him. Nevertheless, I find it regrettable that the Netherlands has been obstructing for a long time, with the Prime Minister in the lead. That's what I make up from international media. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: was there a position of principle behind this, or was this tactic motivated by the desire to impose as many conditions as possible? Did the Netherlands think: if the decision is to be taken, should we ensure that as many conditions as possible are imposed? It is suggested that, as a form of spiders, the Netherlands has been able to lay down additional conditions as a result of that arrangement. Is that right? And what are the conditions? I would like the Prime Minister to provide an open and honest understanding of this. My group is pleased that it seems that the step is going to be taken and that all Member States will unanimously grant candidate status to Ukraine, to Moldova. I am sorry that this does not apply to Georgia. I see that there is another advice for that country, but I do not think that the justification is very strong. Georgia is even more advanced in a number of areas than Ukraine and Moldova are at present, for example in the fight against fraud. We see that there are also other setbacks. So I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at that trade-off. I also think it is very important that we operate with value in our foreign policy, especially when it comes to European integration. We have discussed this recently in the main debate, but I am happy to say so here as well. The Christian Union also referred to this. In Ukraine, people are currently struggling to live and die for those core values. That is why I think it is important that we take this step. But I also think it is important that we take a stand if those core values are affected by Member States. Then there is also a veto or a "no', such as the allocation of funds from the Restoration and Fertiliser Fund. I hope that the premium will also be able to express its support for other countries that have been waiting for some time. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will also support, for example, the opening of negotiations with Albania and northern Macedonia. I wonder if he would be willing to commit himself to making visa facilitations possible for Kosovo, for example. I am also curious about Mr Macron's plan. I think only Mr Amhaouch asked for that. We've got one little A4 that explains exactly what this is all about. But when it was first published, it was seen as a way of avoiding the complex discussion about candidate membership. Now it's on its own. What exactly is the added value? What do those countries which do not yet have candidate status or have that perspective, which are not yet members of the Union and of NATO, think of this initiative? I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how that's appreciated. Much has also been said about food as a weapon by Russia. Everything must be done to try to get food exports back on track, but there are also other steps that I would like to call on the Prime Minister to do. In my view, it is very important that Europe restricts the positions that market players may have in the food market. The food market is dominated by five global traders controlling 70% of trade. They're taking great advantage now. There are also other financial parties speculating on that market, building up positions. That is something that could tackle the largest free market in the world, the European Union. Is the Prime Minister willing to do that? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u101	Before you go any further, there is a final question from Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u102	However, about the issue of food, because that has already come three or four times. I wonder what that's really about. The total world market produces around 800 million tonnes of cereals. It is now about 5 million tonnes of grain that lies in Ukraine and cannot leave the port. Why can't it get out of the harbor? Russia has made a formal statement about this. According to Russia, Ukraine has laid sea mines in the port. So Russia says, boys, you can do whatever you want with that grain; we can't stop it. Only, these ships do not want to sail because Ukraine does not want to reveal the positions of the landmines. Then Russia said: do it via Belarus, because that can also be done by Russia, or by another country route. This whole story about hunger and so on is just American war propaganda. None of it's true. Moreover, this 5 million tonnes on the world market of 800 million tonnes is a fraction, so it cannot be responsible at all for a global food crisis or anything like that. It's just a monkey sandwich!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u103	If there's one person in this house who's doing propaganda, that's Mr. Baudet for Putin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u104	Then we'll get the you-bake again! Get in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u105	I think I'm talking. Furthermore, you really don't understand anything about the food market. The number of million tons you're talking about is far too low. There are many more millions of tons of grain in storage. The problem is that the sea cannot be navigated, because Russia lies there with a fleet. Russia has also laid mines. What is even worse is that if it does not succeed in getting rid of that grain, it also has implications for new harvests. Then it will not be a one-off effect, but then there will be a multiannual shortage of cereals for the world market. That is a very serious problem. You should look into that. This affects countries that are already experiencing other crises, which you do not want to see, and I refer to the climate crisis, which are very serious problems in terms of food security. Hunger is growing in the world. The number of people in need of daily food aid is increasing. And the amount of grain produced in the world is falling as a result of the war that is now going on. In this sense, hunger is caused by the Russian aggressive war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u106	You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u107	I want to conclude with the sanctions. I think it is very important that we work on a seventh package. I also see that there are challenges there in the short term. I also think it is important for Europe to support the implementation of existing sanctions, for example in the case of shipments to Kaliningrad. However, I would also like to point out that I am curious how the Prime Minister sees this risk that if there is no seventh package of sanctions, a situation may arise that individual Member States themselves will impose additional sanctions. That too can cause chaos. How do we deal with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you. I too would like to begin by welcoming the three ambassadors of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine to our Parliament and to this debate. Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow is the last EU Council of the French Presidency, a presidency which was long awaited and which has been very active. It is, of course, particularly marked by the war in Ukraine. An aggressive superpower invades a sovereign country, commits war crimes and puts hunger as a weapon to the rest of the world. After almost four months of war, the battle is still as fierce. It remains impressive to see daily how steadfast and combative the Ukrainians are. It reiterates the importance of a united and effective European Union. We saw this unity in the first months of the war, but we also see it under increasing pressure. Our vulnerabilities, such as dependence on Russian gas, oil and grain, are becoming increasingly exposed. We will therefore have to invest more in the coming years in increasing our strategic autonomy. We need to reduce dependence on Russia and China in particular and strengthen our own economic and military power. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he views the EU's strategic autonomy at the moment. How does he assess the steps that have been taken in recent months? What do he think are the most important follow-up steps? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that reducing these strategic dependencies for Europe is one of the major challenges for our foreign policy? Mr. Chairman. The European Union faces major challenges. The most acute of course remains how we can continue to support Ukraine as well as possible, both humanitarianly, financially and militaryly, and that we can continue to increase pressure on Russia. In doing so, rising prices and the pressure on purchasing power are making it increasingly complicated to maintain consensus, for example on new sanctions packages towards Russia. A country like Hungary is currently frustrating every major decision. How's the Prime Minister looking at this? Does he see any solutions to this? Is there any discussion at the forthcoming Council about additional sanctions against Russia? If so, in what direction? What is the Prime Minister's position on Lithuania's decision to partially ban rail freight transport to Kaliningrad? As far as the VVD is concerned, we must maintain sanctions against Russia consistently, but at the same time we must prevent this sensitive issue from escalating. Does the Prime Minister also expect a discussion at this Council on additional military support? As far as the VVD is concerned, there is a creative view with other EU countries of how we can continue to supply arms to Ukraine. At the same time, we need to ensure that we can continue to do this structuralally in the longer term. Does the Prime Minister see the possibility of a structural increase in the production of arms in Europe in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the Commission delivered its opinion on the accession of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. The Commission recommends that both Ukraine and Moldova should be granted candidate membership, but that additional conditions should be laid down before the actual negotiations begin. Of course, given the geopolitical situation and Russian military aggression, the VVD understands the value of European perspective for Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. Rather, these countries have been given a clear signal that they belong to the European family. However, they have indicated in many ways how important it is for them to formalise this signal. They need this perspective in their daily struggles, but also for all the reforms they need in the coming years. From their position, of course, that is understandable. At the same time, the VVD has always expressed hesitation as to whether this is an appropriate time to grant candidate membership. This is because of the rule of law, the degree of corruption and the economic situation. As a result, Ukraine is still miles away from actual membership. It will take years, if not decades, before the country meets the criteria. The VVD welcomes the fact that the Dutch Government has highlighted these concerns throughout the process in Europe, and has not only looked at the symbolic value of granting candidate membership. We also see these concerns in the Commission's opinion. Additional requirements have been made before negotiations can begin. As a result, the concerns about corruption and the rule of law are being addressed. Moreover, this is consistent with how we dealt with other potential candidate countries such as Albania and northern Macedonia. We therefore support the commitment and attitude of the cabinet. However, the VVD would like to know from the Prime Minister how harsh the conditions that have been set are actually. How and by whom will this be monitored? Who decides whether these conditions are met? Are and will continue to be a precondition for the start of the actual negotiations? For the VVD it is essential that these conditions are not washed nose. There must be no shortcuts in the further route. The full instruments of the enhanced accession procedure, including by the Netherlands, should also be applied to Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, including the pause of negotiations in the event of insufficient progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u110	I have a question for Mr Brekelmans about the position of the VVD. Indeed, he has often spoken loudly about these hesitations. Now the VVD takes a different position. Should I conclude from this that the Dutch Government has been successful in convincing the European Commission to add specific conditions, in this case for example the number of conditions imposed on Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr Van der Lee says that we have taken a different position. I have always stressed, even just now in my speech, what hesitations we have with regard to the rule of law and corruption. I made that clear. I also welcome the fact that the Prime Minister and our Minister for Foreign Affairs have always appointed it, as requested. I see that the European Commission, together with the three countries, has assessed what is happening now and that the same concerns are coming back. I think it is very good that the further process now includes working on these criteria before the negotiations begin. So I think that is very consistent and it is also good that the European Commission is so explicit about this in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u112	Last question, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u113	This wasn't exactly an answer to my question. Has this attitude been adopted by the Netherlands, because we were really on the brakes compared to other countries.... something changed in the opinion given by the European Commission, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u114	I would always like to answer the questions as directly and openly as possible, especially those of Mr Van der Lee, but I am not in the European Commission. The European Commission has asked questions to the three countries, which have completed thousands of pages. There has also been interaction between these two countries. Of course, the European Commission has also seen what the various statements made by countries have been, but I cannot judge from my position how the European Commission comes to its opinion and to what extent it takes the hesitations of the Netherlands into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u115	Last question, Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u116	The Prime Minister said that the war between Russia and Ukraine is our war. Can Mr Brekelmans tell the home front, as I shall call it, whether the VVD sees it the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u117	I fully agreed with the explanation given by the Prime Minister when he received follow-up questions from journalists. It is our war, in the sense that we supply weapons to Ukraine to support them. It is our war, in the sense that we are imposing sanctions against Russia to put further pressure on them. It is our war, in the sense that there is more at stake than just Ukraine's security, namely wider security and our values, namely freedom and sovereignty. But it's not our war in the sense that we fight along. And we're not going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u118	Last question, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u119	On 31 March, the VVD will vote crystal clear against Ukraine's EU candidate membership. On 8 April, Mr Brekelmans called it unwise: you should not create expectations, this is not the time, especially because they are in a war now and we do not know how the country will be in a year's time. Very clear language. And today the VVD simply agrees to Ukraine's candidate membership. Just admit you're twisted. That's the fairest thing to do to your constituents. Don't mess with that sweetheart about the extra conditions. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u120	No, I don't agree with you at all. Many people from Ukraine have made contact with us over the last few weeks and I have indicated in every conversation that I find it risky to go on a journey that may take up to 20 years, because we have also seen with countries like Serbia and Turkey that, somewhere along that route, countries are going to drop out and get frustrated and we are losing them. I have conveyed these concerns in many ways, and I still have those concerns, because I think it would be better in principle to have a shorter journey with a more concrete view of membership. But it is still true that, given the war and the aggression now, those countries have said: we want that perspective now, even though we know and realize that it may take up to twenty years and that we must therefore take our people twenty years into that path. They have made that assessment in order to press ahead very hard with that candidate membership. Next, I will consider the desire that exists, but also the hesitations that we have in this regard, as if it has been properly incorporated into the proposal that is now before us. My answer to that is yes. That is not a twist at all, because that has always been our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u121	I'm gonna keep going on that turn. I think we all agree it's a turn. You say a and you do b. Then I have here a quote from a debate in the Lower House of 10 March 2022. Mr Brekelmans questioned Mr Sjoerdsma. Mr Brekelmans then said: "My question to Mr Sjoerdsma concerns the accession of the European Union. Mr Sjoerdsma says that he thinks that we should not deny Ukraine that. Now there are several criteria." And then he goes on to say, "Ukraine is far from getting close to meeting those criteria, not even in meeting the criteria we would normally set if a country wanted to become a candidate member. Our position has always been that Ukraine is not therefore a candidate." Mr. Brekelmans, now you're pleading for a candidate for Ukraine. That's a turn. There's no other word for what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u122	We have always said that we have these hesitations and reservations. I did put it very clearly there. But we have also said, and Mrs Maeijer should have quoted this, that when we make that assessment we ask for an opinion from the European Commission. My estimate was that Ukraine is very far from membership. That's still my assessment. However, as Mrs Maeijer has also read, the European Commission has considered that Ukraine's and Moldova's progress is such that they can now get membership. Georgia is one step ahead of this, because it still has to meet additional requirements. That is simply the most up-to-date update of how those countries stand about the benchmarks that exist. That's substantiated. I have confirmed, as I said earlier, that there is still a very long way to go and there is still a great deal to be done in this area. That is why additional requirements are needed. But the current opinion is that this does not have to stand in the way of candidate membership. So I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u123	That is a very long answer, but the conclusion remains that the VVD has been turned. Mr. Brekelmans said first that Ukraine should not become a candidate and now Ukraine will become a candidate. That's a turn. Mr Sjoerdsma just congratulated the cabinet on having hands at the wheel in the European Union, in my own words. I cannot help but notice that the VVD is running again and is simply following the europhile agenda of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mrs Maeijer can put the labels and the frames she wants on them. Again, she only listens to half of what I say every time. I have just said that we have always had these hesitations about corruption and the rule of law. I still have those hesitations. That's what I just said in my speech. I hope Mrs Maeijer heard that. But we have said nothing for nothing either that we are asking for an opinion from the European Commission to assess the current situation and what that means for candidate membership. It follows a very clear opinion. That's what we're following.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u125	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u126	Another problem with the current membership of several countries is that it is less and less related to a real prospect of effective accession for several countries. This results in a sort of collection bin with countries that are candidates, but are in fact incomparable. Some countries have been in this for years or even decades, resulting in all sorts of frustrations. This remains an important focus for the VVD. How do we ensure, and I also ask the Prime Minister, that Ukraine is not frustrated during this process and that these countries continue to provide incentives to continue to implement the reforms, even if they are painful. In this respect, the VVD welcomes the fact that the proposal for a political union, as mentioned earlier by Macron, is being discussed further. Macron launched the idea of not just looking at cooperation with other countries with a look at: taking steps towards EU accession. He also wants to be able to give more flexibility to cooperation between countries on the European continent and possibly beyond. This is in line with the VVD's view that we need to rethink the way in which we implement our accession and neighbourhood policy. Can the Prime Minister state what he himself is thinking about in this concept of a political community? What does he think could be the added value of that? On which dimensions does he see added value? And what risks do he think we should be afraid of? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Conference on the Future of Europe. I read that there will already be an initial exchange of views on the conference at this Council. The VVD shares the importance of working on the recommendations of that conference to make the Union more effective, independent and effective. Once again, we have seen that the veto of sanctions does not contribute to this ability to act. I think that the cabinet's line is to first make clear what is already possible within the treaty and what proposals outside it require a treaty change. After all, a treaty change is a long process which is very internal, aimed at the European Union itself, and in which the final outcome is uncertain. On the contrary, we need solutions quickly. There is also a great deal that can be done without a treaty change. The VVD is therefore not dogmatic against a treaty change, but it wants to be able to weigh up the added value for the Netherlands and the European Union. What are the pros and cons of such a possible treaty change, according to the Prime Minister? Finally, Mr President, I see that I have 30 seconds left: recent developments in the United Kingdom. The UK has indicated its intention to unilaterally terminate the Northern Ireland Protocol, which is an essential part of the Brexit agreements that have been made. Can the Prime Minister explain the state of play on this issue? And what are the implications of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u127	Thank you, Mr. Brekelmans. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Council will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Government leaders then discuss one of the most far-reaching proposals made so far. We are talking today about the commitment of our government to that meeting. On the agenda is the French President Macron's plan to create a European political community, a kind of loose link, which aims, and I quote, 'to provide the necessary framework to respond to the urgent historical and geopolitical needs arising from the war in Ukraine and to develop a political structuring of our continent'. Thus, a political community that should be explicitly open to all European countries, says Macron, and should provide a forum for coordination, decision-making and cooperation projects to respond in a concrete way to the challenges facing all countries on the European continent: foreign and security issues, climate change, migration and the relationship with other foreign actors. Essentially, it says here: we are going to form a common political bloc against Russia and for even more climate plans and even more immigration. That is precisely in line with the beliefs of the European elites. And now they want to add a political element to the system and eventually merge it with the EU, which finally casts off the mask and becomes in all openness what people have wanted to make of it for so long: a political union. This political union would then deprive us of even more self-determination, would burden us with even more immigration and climate policy and would also bring us further into conflict with Russia, forgetting that Russia is just as European as Ukraine or Poland or France. Indeed, from Tolstoy to Tchaikovsky, from Vadim Repin to Valeri Gergiev, from Peter the Great to Putin, Russia is a member of the European family of culture, and it is absurd to pretend not to. But European leaders are currently so much involved in their own war propaganda that another item on the agenda of the European Council is the continuation of arms supplies to Ukraine. It is one of the most corrupt countries on earth, engaged in an unwinnable war that will only lead to more senseless bloodshed as long as we allow that war to continue artificially. A war which, by the way, is not at all 'ours', as the Prime Minister said last week, something he cannot and may not say at all under Article 96 of the Constitution, which states that the Kingdom must not be declared warless without the consent of the States-General. Mr. Chairman. Since 2015, Forum voor Democracy has been warning the Dutch people. American and European elites want war with Russia. It is seen by secret services and strategic planners as essential and necessary bump to preserve the American, unipolar world order. Russia must be broken, "pulverized," as Kissinger said. Ukraine is a pawn in that great chess game, already mapped by Brzeziński. A land sacrificed in this global, sinister battlefield for hegemony. To put it another way, the road to the Great Reset runs through Kiev. The Dutch people had already been right in the massively rejected association treaty referendum and did not want to participate in the American games of which that treaty was an extension. The association agreement came into being, with all the dramatic consequences. And now they even want to make Ukraine a member of the EU. Do you remember? Rutte said that wasn't gonna happen at all. Here we are. Government is forward-looking, but it turns out to be mainly about concealing what lies ahead of us. Finally, in the coming days, too much of a disaster, we are talking about the euro, the currency responsible for our current inflation and the evaporation of our pensions. Croatia needs to join us now. This currency union continues to expand, as if it were such a well-functioning system, which it is not, because we are all getting poorer every day, because we have to pay for the debts in the south. Our pensions are vaporizing, I have already mentioned it, and the SMEs, the middle class, are losing their purchasing power in our country. So we have a war with Russia as a result of that European Union and the Americans' power games. We have priceless climate plans. We have absurd nitrogen rules that are imposed on us through the Natura 2000 rules, through the EU. We have open borders and massive immigration, which we now see the consequences of with all those emergency homes and so on that need to be set up while the Dutch cannot get a home. And we have continued inflation. That is the legacy of the EU. That's the disaster our elites are gonna fall into. There is only one message that our government should take to the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow: that war is not ours, that Union is not ours, that currency is not ours, and we are going out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u129	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then we will listen to Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr. Chairman. Granting candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova is a complex dilemma with real arguments for and also with arguments against. Because, on the one hand, candidate status can be a symbolic lifeline for a country that fights for its survival. In addition, yes to this candidate status is not an irreversible yes to EU membership. On the other hand, however, one can also say that EU enlargement, rather than exports of stability, can mean imports of instability. The war, but also corruption, makes that danger very great, especially with regard to Ukraine. In addition, alternative forms of cooperation are conceivable. Until recently, the cabinet was of that opinion, but the cabinet has now endorsed the European Commission's conclusion that Ukraine and Moldova should have a perspective on EU membership. Although the SGP also feels a great deal of sympathy in this respect, there are still too many substantive questions for us to be able to accept them at the moment. These questions are as follows. Doesn't this well-meaning gesture ultimately lead to disappointment? What is the Commission's assumption that Ukraine will take seven steps around justice, anti-corruption, etc., and does the Prime Minister share the Commission's confidence? How does the cabinet appreciate the alternatives to EU candidate status, such as a European political community, and is this sufficiently explored? Fourthly, does the candidate status strengthen the security of Ukraine and the EU, also in the light of the security clauses in Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union? I look forward to an answer from the Prime Minister. In any case, neither Ukraine nor the Western Balkans can be taken into account in the existing conditions and criteria for accession. Mr. Chairman. In this way, we will automatically end up in the debate on the future of Europe. For the EU must choose: will it become a geopolitical player with regard to objective and business rule of law characteristics or will it become an ideological sharpener? It's two-and-a-half. The SGP says: be united, precisely by respecting the different traditions and cultures of the Member States. In this light, I am surprised at the recommendations in the conference report on equal matrimonial rights in all Member States. My question is: does the Prime Minister agree that family and marriage law is and remains the competence of the Member States? In any case, I wonder how representative citizens' panels can only advocate more EU, while it is full of dissatisfaction about overly strong Brussels involvement across the EU. Through a convention, the European Parliament now wants budget law and legislation on the right of initiative and needs to become a shared competence for care and education. My question is: how will the Prime Minister prevent Brussels, Athens, Prague or so from having any influence on our schools and hospitals? An analysis by the last Council Secretariat, which shows that only 18 of the proposed 320 measures require Treaty changes, shows in particular how smoothly the EU is dealing with the room for manoeuvre offered by these treaties. Mr. Chairman. We can also see this in terms of budget deficits and public debt. As many as 17 Member States do not meet the budget deficit criterion, and five countries do not meet the debt criterion. However, the Commission is extending the escape clause again by one year, while the expected GDP growth of 2.7% in 2022 and 2.3% in 2023 is not at all consistent with the severe economic downturn. It cannot be used as a criterion for this escape. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he thinks this is also contradictory and undesirable. Finally, Mr President. One of the things that farmers in the Netherlands are putting in place is that they are being treated hard by EU rules, while European institutions and Member States do not comply with their own rules. Whoever wants to remove the discontent cannot ignore this uncomfortable truth. I therefore wish our Prime Minister a great deal of wisdom and courage on 23 and 24 June. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u131	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a warm welcome to the ambassadors of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. Volt is pleased that the Netherlands has declared itself in favour of Ukraine's and Moldova's accession to the EU and Georgia's future accession to the EU. For Ukraine, it is an important signal that it is part of the European family. The same applies to Moldova, which, in the context of a very difficult situation, is undertaking reforms and can now take this step. However, these three countries will have to undertake major reforms in the coming years. I am curious how the Netherlands will support them, to prevent it from becoming a hopeless process, achieving the opposite of what is desired. I am pleased that colleagues have also drawn attention to this. I am therefore curious to see what the positive and negative lessons we have learned from other countries are. How's the cabinet gonna take it? For the sake of time, I agree with the questions that have been asked earlier about arms supplies. I was wondering what else the Netherlands could do about this. Security in Europe is an important issue. It was also discussed in the previous European Council. At the end of this month there will be an important NATO summit in Madrid. I have a few questions about this, because the European Council will probably also discuss it. In anticipation of the Madrid meeting, I would ask the Prime Minister to urge his colleagues to provide structural military support to the Baltic States. They fear that, regardless of the outcome of the war in Ukraine, Russia will regroup, strengthen and attack the Baltic States at an unguarded time. Fortunately, NATO is already working on Gotland, but the Suwalki Corridor is also a possible target. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue in favour of strengthening the permanent defence of the Baltic States? Mr. Chairman. Today I would like to consider the consequences of the war on the food security of countries, particularly in North Africa and the Middle East, but also in relation to the long-term relationship with the countries there. The blockade of the Black Sea, a terrible act by Putin, has a huge impact on the food market. The same applies to the hoarding of animal feed and the positions held by the market players, as Mr Van der Lee said just now. The SWIFT sanctions of Russian banks have also made grain and maize scarce and expensive. In the annotated agenda, the Prime Minister focuses in particular on reopening the Black Sea route for the export of grain from Ukraine. Colleagues have already asked some reasonable questions about this and I agree with that. Earlier in a debate, the Prime Minister indicated that he and his associates had no idea whether the SWIFT sanctions also had an impact on Russian grain exports. Does the Prime Minister have a clear idea of the consequences of the sanctions on food security? Is this being discussed in order to ensure that this is prevented as much as possible? Does the Prime Minister understand the precarious situation of the African Union, especially in relation to the European Union? One reason I ask is that we need the African continent, because we are competing with China for access to critical raw materials for the energy transition. I'd like a reflection on that. China started hoarding grain in December, driving up prices. This is an opportunity for Europe to show what our European values are worth, not just by focusing on Russia's share in the food crisis, but by making global food security in general a spearhead and seeing how the European Union can contribute to this. Is the Prime Minister prepared to press his colleagues at the summit for a European food security plan in Africa? Mr. Chairman. The impact of the war is becoming more palpable, even in the Netherlands. Gazprom is pumping less and less gas into the European gas network. This not only makes gas more expensive, but also makes it more difficult for all European countries to replenish their gas reserves for the coming winter. More and more countries, including the Netherlands, therefore choose to scale up the use of coal power plants. At the same time, I am concerned about whether we can maintain unity and solidarity in Europe at the moment when there is a real reduction in gas supply. The IEA warns that we need to prepare ourselves for a full stop. There is talk in the agenda of a European contingency plan. What does it say? What is the Minister's position on a European gas disposal plan? What steps are being taken and what are the arrangements? Does the Cabinet believe that agreements should be made if several countries actually have a gas shortage in the winter and households may be without heating? Just in times of crisis and uncertainty, the ability to maintain solidarity and justice determines the resilience of a society. This applies to the Netherlands, but certainly also to the European Union. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a very small point. Rising inflation is not only a Dutch challenge, but also a European challenge. Last week, the ECB met for urgent consultations to discuss the impact of the interest rate step. The differences in interest rates between countries are increasing. These rising spreads were an important stress indicator during the euro crisis when investors questioned the survival of the euro. I wonder whether the Prime Minister will also discuss this with his colleagues at the European summit, in order to prevent this from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. He signed up later to speak as well. He's not on the list. He's on the list. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There has rarely been a European summit where there have been so many such great challenges on the board. Mr Dassen has just spoken about it: the ECB is once again in a very difficult position. He has to buy up more debts, while he's already bought up 6,000 billion. We are facing a major food problem, because grain is exported from Ukraine to Russia and there are difficulties in exporting that Ukrainian grain. However, there is much appreciation for the European Union's efforts to set up fast lanes. We are also dealing with an energy crisis, which is directly linked to the war. Mr. Chairman. The first question is therefore: how does the EU ensure a common strategy to get out of all these problems? If only a new crisis comes in every time and you don't solve it, you'll end up under internal tensions. How does the Union ensure that there is good energy and sufficient food security in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. Then Ukraine. We're spending a lot of money on Ukraine. In the Netherlands, next year we will spend more than 1 billion on the reception of Ukrainians here and relatively little on supporting the country. It now seems that offering membership or not is going to be a kind of re-negotiation as to whether we are sufficiently helping Ukraine. Ukraine has not been helped with a perspective in fifteen years. Ukraine will be helped if it receives real support to stand up to Russian aggression. What agreements are being made on this? Mr. Chairman. We've had some bad experiences. We knew that we should not allow Greece and Italy to join the euro, and we did. As a result, all the euro deals are butter-soft and we have a buy-back policy that we never wanted. We knew that the legal states of Poland and Bulgaria, for example, were not okay. We do not manage to make constitutional agreements with these countries. In fact, Poland is condemned, does not pay the periodic penalty payments, but receives more than 35 billion from the European fund. That is why I have difficulty with the agreements on the accession of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. We do not adhere to the pre-established criteria. That brings us home from a cold carnival. Either we are going to slow down for years, as we do with a number of Balkan countries, or we are going to attract a number of countries that are not ready. That is what the Commission itself says. Why is this step being taken with Ukraine and Moldova and is Georgia going to be a candidate for membership? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the last question. Does this mean that Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, which are also partly in Europe, can apply for membership? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 1.55 p.m., including lunch.
