ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	Then we have now arrived at the continuation of the treatment of the Amendment of the Bankruptcy Act to improve the flow of municipal debt relief to the legal debt restructuring scheme of natural persons in part No. 35915. We have arrived at the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its comments, sometimes explicitly at the JenV Ministry and sometimes explicitly at the competence of SZW and of my colleague, the Minister of Poverty... Now I'm going to wrestle myself, so I'm going to use the abbreviation: APP. Having said that, I am looking at the debate we are having today. The bill saw a limited change to the Bankruptcy Act. The goal is to help more people, more Dutch, out of the problematic debt. Many of you have said this and repeated it. From your input, including the amendments, I would like to point out that you want to do more for the Dutch, for the citizen, who has problematic debts. Your Chamber has just asked what has been done after the Jetten motion, which was voted in plenary session in September 2020. This is partly implemented by this bill and partly by the individual shortening of the duration by the judges. I see your room expects more. I'll come back to that later. Let me say for the record that I want to. I also want that piece of customisation to the Dutchman, also in view of the execution. You can also expect me, as Minister for Legal Protection, to look at the careful handling and implementation of the law, so that we can do what we say and actually show what we have done and that it works. I feel like we're pursuing the same goal. I embrace these goals. With you, I would like to see how we can broaden the admission to the Wsnp, the Law on debt restructuring of natural persons, and reduce the duration of the Wsnp journey, and what is needed for that in the law, but also what is needed in terms of capacity. And therefore, Mr President, I cannot yet assess the various proposals of this Chamber in their entirety. In order to make a good decision, I think that we should jointly want all those involved in the broad approach to debt to be able to effectively implement the decisions that your Chamber takes and which confirm the First Chamber. I am thinking of the municipalities, the debt relief workers and judges. I will urgently seek opinions on these proposals from the Court of Justice, the Office of the European Communities, the Municipalities and the Trade Association for Directors. I expect to get the results after the summer. I am putting pressure on this because I see that this is too important a subject. I therefore propose that the House suspend the debate today at the end of this first term. After I have obtained the information, we can answer the questions well and completely from the collective and from the integrality, so that we can see the implementation and the impact of it. I have just referred to the questions that have been asked about SZW's portfolio. I know that Mr Carola Schouten is coming in with policy advice in your direction. Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that this is not in the Chamber's preference. You're putting me in a dilemma. You ask me to be aware of the quality of legislation. You ask me to have an eye for not only a piece of customization for the Dutch, but also for the execution. I'm gonna keep checking these cases and keep looking at them. If it turns out that amendments are needed if the bill is already in the First Chamber, that would mean that we need to start a whole new legislative process. I do not need to explain to you what delay that entails. That's something I don't want, because I want to keep pace. I don't want it to last longer than the goal we have together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I propose that we suspend briefly and discuss the Minister's request with the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	The request of the Minister to seek further advice with all chain partners and with Minister Carola Schouten is supported by the Chamber. The Chamber is asking for pace to be made. That's what the minister said. The Chamber therefore agrees to suspend the legal proceedings until further notice. I hear the Members of Parliament say that, preferably by October at the latest. It has also been said that it might be better to answer the questions if there is further information. I will give the Minister the opportunity for a general word, or for something you would like to say before we suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Chamber for its understanding. I realise that the two changes we are making to the legal debt restructuring scheme for natural persons are more than important. Access is being improved. Some have just referred to the Rutte III cabinet. I'm running this now in Rutte IV Cabinet. I respect that. I find this of unprecedented importance. I'm looking, Mr. Chairman, because next thing I know, I'm going to go deeper into the content. We're gonna save it now. I intend to continue this debate with my colleague shortly after the summer recess, if your Chamber allows it in its agenda. It's too important a theme. I can say a lot more, but let me not say that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	Clear. Thank you. Thanks to the MPs and the Minister. We will continue this debate at a later stage, after obtaining more information and having properly assessed the wishes of the Chamber. The same applies to the treatment of the amendment of the Bankruptcy Act.
