ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the Eurogroup/Ecofin Council. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Commission has recently presented proposals for amending the so-called own resources decision, i.e. the European Union's financing buttons. In connection with this, there are various discussions about the European Recovery Fund, proposals for new funds and adjustments to the European Emissions Trading System, which we need to see in the context of Fit for 55. And that is ahead of the Multiannual Financial Framework. Are you still following it? It's a very complex whole. There are a lot of files, which are also related. The cabinet is, of course, trying to inform the Chamber as well as possible. It's gotta keep a lot of balls in the air. And yet, in order to keep a grip as a Chamber, we have placed a parliamentary reservation so that agreements can be made on the provision of information to the Chamber on all these dossiers and no steps are taken and decisions are taken without the Chamber being able to give its opinion on them. We'll be voting next week on lifting that treatment retention. I think it would be a good idea to have a motion in advance as a Chamber in which we give frameworks. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has made proposals for new own resources by amending the own resources decision;]] [[Calls on the Government to use financial coverage under the current Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for new, related Commission proposals;]] [[calls on the Government to use the following principles in the negotiations on the own resources decision:]] [[the national (continue) collection of revenues from the Emissions Trading System (ETS);]] [[not extend the own resources base further to sectors or activities that are primarily national, such as those covered by an proposed ETS BRT;]] [[not extend the own resources base further to direct taxes falling under the exclusive competence of the national Member States;]] [[making the application of the rule of law mechanism conditional on related expenditure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Heinen, Mr Alkaya, Mr Grinwis and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a good debate on many points this morning. I am particularly pleased with the news that the government is working proactively on national emergency legislation if it is not possible to reach a consensus in Europe to really get sanctions against the trust sector, the oligarchs and the Putin clique off the ground. I am therefore very pleased with that, but I would like to make a specific motion on that point. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having noted the adopted motion for a resolution by Mr Piri and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and ……]] [[having regard to the announcement by the International Consortium of Research Journalists (ICIJ) to set up the Russian Archive on the basis of previous files, such as the Panama Papers, the Paradise Papers and the Pandora Papers, which will map out the assets and offshore structures of Russian oligarchs and elites;]] [[noting the practical challenges of linking companies and constructions with Russian final stakeholders;]] [[calls on the Government to cooperate with the ICIJ as far as possible and to use the Russian Archive to ensure that existing and new sanctions are as effective as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1821]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to thank Mr Heinen and the co-signators for the thinking that has already been put into this. The cabinet understands the concerns of the Chamber very well, but as far as the cabinet is concerned, it is still early to be able and willing to take a final position before the start of the negotiations. As Mr Heinen said, the design is being negotiated within the framework of the "Fit for 55" package and the new own resources. In fact, we will keep the Chamber well informed, as Mr Heinen pointed out, in accordance with the information agreements, and indeed in good time about the developments, so that the Chamber can give the opinions and positions to the Cabinet. So we will talk about this issue much more often. We are doing this in the run-up to the Ecofin and the European Council, but also, of course, with the Minister for Climate and Energy or other cabinet members on the wider "Fit for 55" package. We need to make a broad assessment. I think Mr Heinen was right to say to the people of the country: can you still follow? We want to weigh everything that comes across abbreviations, instruments, resources and options in a really broad and comprehensive way because this is also about the future. This goes hand in hand with the level of ambition of climate policy and the question of how we will deal with it together, including with new own resources, also bearing in mind the difficult situation and great uncertainty that we are now facing on the European continent and in the European Union. The Chamber can give broad direction to the integrated policy in the preparatory debates, including to us. That is a reason for the cabinet to ask Mr Heinen and his co-signators if they can continue the motion for a resolution for the time being. I would like to make three further points on the substance of the motion for a resolution for our future debates. One: "continuing to collect revenues from the emissions trading system nationally," from now on ETS. This is a policy in progress, because ETS revenues are collected nationally. Two: "Don't extend the own resources base to sectors or activities that are primarily national matters such as those covered by a proposed ETS BRT." The basis for an ETS-BRT own resource is financially beneficial for the Netherlands, but fortunately, because we have relatively little CO emissions. Furthermore, the ETS-BRT is a cross-border instrument for the cabinet. In view of this, and given the cross-border nature of climate change, it cannot be sufficiently achieved by Member States at central, regional or local level. An EU approach is therefore needed. The ETS creates a level playing field between Member States in the field of CO reduction. In addition, as I said, we think it is in the Dutch interest to maintain that negotiating area a little bit. I really want to give this as a consideration. I am almost ready, Mr President, but there is another element to the motion: 'Do not extend the basis of own resources to (direct) taxes which fall within the exclusive competence of the Member States'. A basis for an own resource is not a tax but a distribution key on the basis of which Member States pay. There is a basis for an own resource based on a direct tax and own resource VAT. As far as we are concerned, this is working satisfactorily. I think that our assessment of this is different from that of the petitioners. The motion also calls for "the application of the rule of law mechanism to be conditional on related expenditure." I recognise the scope very much, but it would be a policy of standing if I could interpret it if the MFF rule-of-law mechanism applied to the EU budget. That's something the cabinet recognizes very much. Mr Heinen has also heard me say today in debate with Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks that as a cabinet we consider it very important that we do not suddenly, not even in this crisis, lose sight of a rather fundamental issue: the community of values, the rule of law mechanism and what you derive from it, namely the right to financial resources from the same community of values. But I would like to come back to the starting point. I would like to ask the authors, through Mr Heinen, to hold the motion until later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u5	Let me take a look at Mr Heinen to see if he is prepared to do so. Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u6	First of all, I have a point of substance. Thank you for the comprehensive response to the Minister's motion. I think it is good to highlight that VAT is indeed a base, but that is an indirect tax and not a direct tax. There's a nuance difference there, and so is the motion. With regard to the ETS-BRT, there is also, in fact, a two-way discussion. On the one hand, you have the ETS-BRT. I don't really see what's cross-border about houses. It's not like I lift my house across the border every day, but that's another debate. The motion sees whether it is a means of its own or not. I think we still have to have the political debate on this. I think the Chamber is sending a clear signal of how it stands in there. The vote was scheduled for this afternoon, immediately after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u7	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u8	I think it would be a good idea to hold on to the motion, so that we can look at its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u9	At the request of Mr Heinen, I propose his motion (21501-07, No. 1820) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u10	Then there's a second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thanks also to the proposers, because this is how we achieve the optimal result for the Netherlands and the EU. Then there is Mr Van der Lee's motion to item No. 1821. I welcome the idea behind this motion. The identification of owners is not easy, and it is good that we use all the reliable resources and resources, and the noble role that much investigative journalism certainly plays in this. This could definitely be one of those sources. I therefore read the motion as an appeal to the government and implementing authorities to use the information in question as a source in the elaboration of existing and new sanctions. They, of course, make their own assessment. I do not read the motion, I add, as a kind of permanent collaboration between government and the Consortium of Research Journalists. Nor do I think that investigative journalism is looking for that for itself, because that might harm their independence again, but each has its own role and responsibility. When new sanctions are introduced, I also say on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, of course they are international processes. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is primarily responsible for this, but I am happy to give this motion a Chamber of Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-10-tweedekamer-8.u13	As Mr Heinen said, we are going to vote later. I would like to thank the Minister for her presence and reply, as well as the spokesmen in the Chamber and the people in the public gallery. I'll suspend the sitting for a single moment, and then we'll move on to the two-minute debate on the Environment Council.
