ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on nitrogen policy. I am now the first to give the floor to Mr Tjeerd de Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I wanted to travel to Stroe to take note of the concerns of the farmers there. But, as we know, it was too unsafe and there was not enough police capacity to guarantee that security and thus make democracy work. All the police were needed to steer tractor traffic along the highway. So I didn't talk to a lot of farmers, except last night: two farmers, by chance both of Boer are looking for Woman. Annemiek is a dairy farmer. Her family's been getting 30 cents a liter of milk for 30 years. As it happens, it's 54 cents now, but, she said, the cost of the animal feed, remember, which had increased. So under the line, there was nothing extra left. The other farmer was Bastiaan, a farmer from Zeeland. Depending on the season, his potatoes are given 10 or 20 cents of sugar for ten times in the supermarket. And what did he lose his money on? Especially pesticides. That was a lot of money, he said. That's where his income goes. In fact, these two farmers are an example of how they are the earning model of others. That's what you saw in Stroe, of course. That was sponsored by the cattle feed industry. He even said, "If the terrain gets damaged, I'll just lick it up to fix it." That is why we have said in the coalition agreement: this change in agriculture starts with the improvement of the income model. So it starts with all those parties that are now making money from the farmer. That is a very important starting point that we sometimes forget. Mr. Chairman. I would have also gone to Stroe to tell you how bad nature is. If it were a patient who would go to the doctor, the doctor would say, "There's only 20% of your health left. You have multiple sufferings, and you are very bad." Why is that? Nature is bad because of too much nitrogen. To our horror, 80% of the insects have disappeared. Our nature and our oak forests are sick. Of course, other factors also play a role. If that same patient is also a smoker and suffers multiples, the doctor would say: I would at least quit smoking. Mr. Chairman. What I also saw in Stroe was that peasants like Bastian and Annemiek were talked to their mouths all day long, with ideas like halving nature and facts, also scientific facts, that were dismissed as opinions. Mostly sand was sprinkled in the eyes of the farmers. I find that misleading and mean, all the more so because the other sounds were not welcome. Mr. Chairman. It also rumbles in the province. My group chairman referred to this as 'distorting provincial leaders'. Fortunately, the plan is so good that there are several locks on the door. What the provinces are going to come up with has to add up. It must be ecologically sound and lead to the improvement of nature. So I hope that provincial leaders have the courage and the responsibility to get to work. I have every confidence in that, but D66 does ask the Minister to make a plan B. We cannot continue this discussion with the province for many years to come. For example, my own province of Friesland said: we already have an approach and we are not going to do anything with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	I listened to a podcast of Radio 2 on the way back from Stroe to The Hague last night. It was about reducing nitrogen from the livestock. In it, a professor, Professor Han Lindeboom, indicated that the D66 focus group said that two professors from Wageningen University, i.e. scientists, were not allowed to bring out their findings from Mr De Groot. Those findings were that the halving of the livestock is not necessary to achieve nitrogen targets. Apparently, the D66 party summit didn't like that. I found it very remarkable that this is happening. I would like to ask Mr De Groot whether this is true. Is it true that two professors, scientists, come up with a conclusion and are not allowed to bring them out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	They've brought that conclusion out. D66 is a beautiful, democratic party with many opinions. I'll tell you even more. These experts have provided their input. I spent a whole night with them at the table. That was useful for the negotiation of the coalition agreement, for example as regards the understanding that you need to look at much more than just nitrogen. You have to look at the whole of nature. That has become about the core of the coalition agreement. So it's definitely going to be done. D66, my party, also said that these Members do not speak on behalf of the whole working group on agriculture and not on behalf of the party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	What I find so remarkable about this is that in the podcast the professor, a scientist, indicated that he gave the advice that halving of the livestock is not necessary. He indicated that Mr De Groot had said that this should not be brought out. We've been talking about science all along, and the fact that you have to take it seriously. I am very shocked by this, because Mr De Groot is actually ordering a scientist not to bring this out, because it seems that the livestock needs to be halved. My question to Mr De Groot is whether it is true that he has indeed informed these professors that they were not allowed to bring this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	One of the professors drew in his criticism of AERIUS........................................................................................................................................................................................... Of this we say as D66: we have a few benchmarks on which we base ourselves. These are the rule of law, Europe, science and free journalists. That's all things D66 stands for. When you criticize a model, which can certainly be possible and plausible, you will have to publish it in a scientific journal. Then you'll have to talk to the RIVM, because those are the scientists who advise us, politicians. So here's what I said. It's incredibly interesting. I'll take note of it. I distance myself from it when you refer the whole model to the realm of fables, because in my opinion you cannot draw that conclusion. In addition, we support the scientific institutes as D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	Yeah, but I think it's kind of weird. I have the impression that this was a bit of an unpleasant message. The professor, the scientist, who researched this, I think he's an oceanologist who has done an extensive research in a penguin colony. That's what you do when you work on the coast. There's penguins. We have cows. I can't help it either. By the way, they are both black and white, so there are some similarities. So that's what he did. That was about a colony of 500,000 penguins. He checked where the ammonia's gonna go, 'cause those penguins are gonna poop, too. His research showed that it fell down to a mile from there, but no further. There was a lot of grass growing. Beyond that, in that further area, nature was actually the same as it always was. You can compare that to what it's like here. It is a short distance, and behind that nature is actually doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	That could be a very good conclusion, from a scientist, of which I say: hey, we should take a serious look at that. I find it strange that it is not taken over by the D66 focus group, which I believe was set up in conjunction with Mr De Groot. What kind of science do you think we shouldn't question it? In fact, Mr De Groot is questioning a scientist here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mrs van der Plas says it well: it could be relevant. That's right. So this is how science works: that you publish those results in a scientific journal in which fellow scientists look at the quality of the research, the relevance, the way it was carried out and the reproducibility. Then it becomes part of the scientific conversation. Then it also gets relevance when you have to change a model. So far, it's an interesting hypothesis. But that is not enough, especially because the RIVM has said: we cannot do anything with that at the moment. That is not enough to say: we are going to throw the whole approach overboard. But I think that opinion is very welcome. I have also said to those involved: are you going to publish in particular, and you are going to talk to the other scientists in particular? And if anything else comes out, it's extremely relevant. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	The point is that it does not come to D66 or to the coalition, or to the coalition, or to the coalition or anywhere else, while it is a scientist. There are two professors at Wageningen University. In the meantime, several people have come forward who have also been in that focus group, who confirm that Mr De Groot said that it should not be brought out because it was really a question of the livestock being halved. That's what it was all about: this is actually not a very nice conclusion, so don't bring it out. My question remains which science we should believe. Mr. De Groot blames a lot of people for doubting science, but apparently he forbids scientists even to bring something out within his own circle. What does Mr De Groot think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	They've organized a whole event. They've written down their findings. That's another thing than publishing. I've talked to them about it several times. So yes, that's a political party where you have different discussions and experts. Fortunately, D66 has a lot of members with a very interesting opinion and a very nice background with which they can also support that. Only, with a political party, the election program is leading. And in the end, you're going to have to turn that opinion into science. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	My clog breaks here all the time, but I'm sorry, now he's breaking too. An opinion? We're talking about scientists here. Mr De Groot is so supportive of scientists, and rightly so. I'm totally flabbergasted. Mr De Groot is now talking about two professors from Wageningen University who have just done a study, and Mr De Groot says: yes, we have people with very interesting opinions. Does Mr De Groot say that science is just an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	A hypothesis, an opinion is about science at the time it is published in a professional journal. Then it's science. It is about in science when at that time official bodies like RIVM say: we are going to build this science. That's how it works, all over the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	Okay. So when a scientist says something, in a newspaper or on television, and he speaks on the basis of his scientific knowledge but it hasn't been published yet, isn't that science? Someone can say, "Well, I'm not sure I am." Do you have to have published something as a scientist before it's science? Or can scientists also say: well, I've been researching things, and that and that's what's going on. Is that an opinion? What's the deal with that? I am actually getting further and further away from Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	If you have a suspicion as a scientist, it's called a hypothesis. Then you say, "I think that's the way it is." As a scientist, you can support that. But it is only when that hypothesis is actually solidified in a scientific publication that it is also science. And before that it is an opinion, at best it is a hypothesis. Some hypotheses are better substantiated. But in the end, it's something other than the solidified science we have with institutions. And scientists are always very precise, aren't they? If this scientist wants to say something, he does know: that research about that penguin colony is super interesting research and it is also very relevant to how it works in nature. And yes, that can at most lead to a hypothesis: what about the rest of science? I can't make it any clearer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	I see you want to go into it further, Mrs Van der Plas. You may devote all your interruptions to this subject. Yeah? You want to interrupt again? Okay. Mrs. Van der Plas, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	This is also very remarkable. For at the very beginning of my series of interruptions Mr De Groot says: Yes, that is exactly the point, it can be so relevant. And now, at the end of the series of interruptions, he says: this is a very relevant investigation. Is it "it could be relevant"? Is it "very relevant research"? Or does Mr De Groot simply revolve around the hot knit and indeed say: "Listen, this is not really what I want, and I don't really want you to spread this within the party"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	I'm repeating myself. Look, that research is relevant when it comes to the spread of ammonia through a penguin colony. And it could be a hypothesis when it comes to that relevance to the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'm gonna take a look at the members at the Interrupt Microphone. There are quite a few Members who would like to ask a question. I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt. I think he wants to ask a question on this last issue. Would Members be okay if Mr Omtzigt could ask his question a little earlier? Because then we can close this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u22	The speaking time and the order of speech are not always clear to me, but if his question is on this subject, I think it is right that Mr Omtzigt should speak now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u23	It's about this theme. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've got the heart of the problem here. We have here a model on which the policy is based. The scientists from D66 group say, "Look, the model contains ammonia from the sea." RIVM has written an answer to that. That may be known, but I'll just read it to you anyway. "In the past, a difference between measurements and calculations of nitrogen has been observed in the dune area. For this purpose, a functional correction in the model has been applied. New insights have led to additional research being launched into the explanation for this difference." That difference was first called "ammoniac from the sea." RIVM says there's no ammonia coming from the sea. That's in a RIVM note, in a memo, huh? So it's not that science: the RIVM itself says that there is no ammonia coming from the sea. This is only a small part of the Dutch problem, because it is only about the Wadden Islands. That is only 1% or 2% of the Netherlands. But it was very crazy to see on the map that we have to do 90% nitrogen reduction in the Wadden Islands, where there is no intensive livestock production except on Texel. The scientists say it's wrong in the model. RIVM admits it. Then it just needs to be corrected, right? Why don't we just start with the fact that these Wadden Islands have to go from minus 90% to minus 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u26	So that we there... Yes, but Mr. Chairman, this means a lot. You have to be able to question a model. I sometimes build models at night; I like that. But you have to be able to question it, and here the model doesn't add up. Does D66 agree that the model is incorrect and that the model therefore needs to be adapted for all Wadden Islands on the basis of what those scientists have found? If you want to be very technical: this does not apply to Schiermonnikoog, because there is still a small problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u27	First of all, you have to sleep at night, not build models; that only brings misery. But if it is true that RIVM says that there is a mistake in their model and that adjustments are necessary there, then you should do so above all. But then I do not draw the conclusion that the whole model can be removed; that is what Mr Omtzigt is doing. I also think that the scientists will be the first to say that they are going to change that model. Isn't it fantastic when there are new insights accepted by RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Omtzigt. Or... yes, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u29	Well, "finally": this is only the second, Mr President, so I'm sure you'll be preparing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u30	No, I didn't say "finally." I'm just looking at Mr Bishop. It would really be about Mrs Van der Plas' last point, and I have the feeling that this is going to be a slightly broader point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u31	No, it's exactly this point, but I'm drawing a broader conclusion. The conclusion is now that the Wadden Islands have changed colour due to this interruption and are no longer in the minus 90 category. RIVM itself admits it in a memo dated 15 April 2021. There's no nitrogen emissions there. The only nitrogen emissions you have there are those of the sea channels that run right around it, where those big container ships sail, which sometimes lose a container; that is not very good for the environment there. Why don't we have that discussion if this is already being adapted? Then why don't we say: it's now adapted. That gives at least that part of the Netherlands rest... and then we'll look seriously at this report as well? There are also things that Mrs van der Plas does not like at all, such as less protein-rich food. I mean, it's not all one party. But there's a well-balanced proposal in here. So have we decided now? What should happen before we say: the Wadden Islands, that is not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u32	It's not up to the Chamber to get into models here. There were indeed many other good ideas in the piece. In any case, I used this in the discussion with the coalition partners at the time about how best to improve nature in the Netherlands. Because not only nitrogen, but also hydrology plays a major role in this. But it does not seem to me that it is our job to change a model here with a handcuff. That's the job of the scientists. It's fine if the RIVM is already on that path. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u33	I try to do it on content and with scientific arguments. The coalition got this card on June 1st. And on June 10th... they changed the whole color code, by the way, so you don't have to compare them. That's what makes it really complicated. In Gelderland it has changed completely, based on what Gelderland wanted. In large parts of the Achterhoek, I know that area well, because I live near there, the percentage was -43%. As a whole, this has changed to -12%. That makes a huge difference for those farmers as to whether they can just do their things. That's where we could do it in ten days. We'll hear about what it's based on later. So these scientists say about the Wadden Islands: there is no ammonia from the sea, except from a few mudflats. So the ammonia from the sea in the model doesn't exist. And we can't adjust it there? If we are going to have a scientific discussion with models here, then I would like to have them. I'm fine with that. But a political deal has been made here. And now that I want a substantive deal for this part, for the Wadden Islands, would that be impossible? Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u34	This is absolutely true with the hair attached, although in my case it may be a bit of a weird comparison. Mr Omtzigt suggests that we, as a coalition, are a bit of a mess there. It just isn't. Those cards are all made by the RIVM. Yes, that is done on the basis of the Minister's talks with the provinces. Gelderland had another idea. The provinces have been at the table with the minister for months. Eventually, something comes out that adds up to the task that we have indeed given as a coalition, namely: make sure that nature is in good condition. So there's no hand-kicking about cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u35	It's good to hear there's no handshake. But the cards change. The moment a map completely changes, the perspective for those farmers changes. That's really what happens when you see that your own business is in an area with a task you can't handle. Because that means you have to stop your business. But a week later, that can be different again. You really don't want to get into that kind of uncertainty, and you really don't want to hurt the families behind it. But I'm gonna stick to the question. I am talking about a scientist who has published publications on this subject and researched it for 45 years. He says, "There's no ammonia coming from the sea." This scientist is a marine biologist. That's where he got promoted. So that's not someone who accidentally said something about it. He says this cannot be done, and the colour of the Wadden Islands must be different. RIVM has made or quoted a scientific publication that shows that ammonia comes from the sea. Does that scientist have to write a peer-reviewed article to prove that there is no ammonia coming out of the sea? That takes three years, by the way, and then this whole process is over. Or can we just say, "There is no ammonia from the sea? RIVM admitted it. We're changing it for the Wadden Islands"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think this involved scientist has moved a lot further and he's at the RIVM table, which I recommended to him. I think he's come a long way with RIVM. If there's any reason to change the models, the RIVM will. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Omtzigt? No? Then we're gonna keep the order as it was before. First of all, Mr Bishop, SGP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u38	I would remind you that it is not the first time that Mr De Groot has been reminded of this gap in the AERIUS model. That is why it surprises me again and again that he remains blindly behind such a model and, only when forced by an interruption, indicates: yes, there are some shortcomings in it. But I wanted to talk about Stroe. "That's where the farmers were sprinkled in the eyes on a large scale yesterday; they were told a sausage that cannot be met." That is what Mr De Groot is actually saying. It's good that he was glued to the live stream and saw everything that happened there. But then Mr De Groot also noticed the following. Of course there are sounds that say: chopping in the sand, we do nothing, there's nothing to worry about. There are. But there's a tremendous willingness to think with it. Does Mr De Groot agree with me that instead of the drawing table which has now been dropped, including a ticket, there should be an increase with the sector, with the provinces? For example, did Mr De Groot wonder why these provinces say: wait a minute, that is not how it works. How does Mr De Groot stand in that? I also read on the D66 site about "new leadership." That means "aggregating together and so on," but I do not read that new leadership is also meant as a dictation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u39	The beauty of yesterday was actually that I heard from someone who was talking to farmers there, that those farmers themselves were much more nuanced than the people on stage, who were pushing things up a bit. I see a colleague nodding here. The point is that a lot of farmers themselves have ideas about how to do better. For example, I will also draw attention to organic farmers or very extensive farmers in the vicinity of a nature reserve, because it would be a bit strange to ask them to reduce too. So a lot of farmers want it, but it's the art of making it possible for them too. That is why D66 has made a real commitment in this coalition agreement to start with the earning model, to make it clear what circular agriculture means, how you are going to feed differently and how you are going to deal with the soil. That's what farmers need. They need clarity and perspective, even though it may be difficult for Mr Bishop to deliver a message that is really annoying and difficult at the time. That is our job, and that is also the job of provincial leaders, who have been at the table for a long time and who have known for a long time that this is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u40	This is not an answer to my question. I appreciate the effort, but my question is: how does D66 see that new leadership and the involvement of the sector take shape? I do hear Mr De Groot talking about what needs to be done. I don't see that in the pieces before us. Then there should have been an extensive thought exercise, exploration of earning models and so on. That's not gonna happen. I guess that's what I should have done. Well, I think that's a shortage of the coalition and its partners. But how does Mr De Groot intend to organise this process, now that the Empire has acted in this way, and has driven the provinces and the sector against him? This isn't working, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u41	Leadership is not just standing on a stage and giving farmers messages they like to hear at that time. Leadership is also to indicate that that message is sometimes uncomfortable and hard, but with a warm heart, because 25 billion has also been released to offer farmers a perspective to restore nature to good condition. But you're right, you saw me nodding too, as far as the perspective part of this diptych is concerned. The coalition agreement is a diptych, with on the one hand putting nature back in good shape and on the other hand offering perspective to farmers. That perspective is lacking. So I understand very well that farmers are worried about that. I share that with Mr Bishop. There are 33 pages written about it. I don't think any farmer understood anything about that. When you read that, you really don't know what you're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u42	All speakers on stage will be swept to one heap. All the speakers would throw the farmers in the eyes, and all the speakers would bring a message that farmers want to hear. I suspect that Mr De Groot should check the live stream again, because this story just doesn't add up. Meanwhile, my question has not been answered. What does this new leadership mean for the involvement of the sector? What does that mean for alignment with the provinces? There is now a dictation: this must be it; provinces, go carry it out. So that's not going to happen to provinces unless they get the space to fill it out in their own way. But what about the involvement of the sector? I would have avoided the word, but frankly, that whole adage of "new leadership" seems to be mostly slipping out. I would like a more nuanced response and a little more focused on what this means now for the sector and for the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u43	I've been listening to the live stream. Mr Bishop, in his eloquent manner, said that he would go through all the provinces to make them smell shit. So the provinces have been warned. But all the crazy on a stick...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u44	This is a little indicative of the way in which Mr De Groot has listened. No, what I said is this. If the provinces and the sector come together and come to an approach together, they will smell a poo in The Hague, to put it a bit in a non-SGP way. So it's not the provinces that smell poopy, it's The Hague. In Mr De Groot's quote, that is exactly the opposite. That is a bit indicative of the way the livestream has been listened to, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u45	Then excuse me, but the provinces are not warned. Then we've been warned here. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Edgar Mulder's already closing his nose, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u47	But the suggestion in Mr Bishop's words is, in a way, misleading, because suggesting that things can all be different if you leave the hands at once is simply not what the provinces are for. The provinces are working with the Minister to ensure that nature is in a good condition and to reduce nitrogen emissions. You say 'a dictation', but that is by no means a dictation. My colleague Van Campen called it "a talk plate." I think that's a nice term. What matters is the annex to the National Programme of Rural Areas, because it contains what the goal is for each province. How provinces do that... as far as D66 is concerned, that happens with the farmer, because we don't let anyone down. Make sure you finally get those plans done with a lot of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr De Groot's explanation illustrates that this is a dictatorship. The provinces have no room to pursue their own policies. That is said, but "you have to meet those and those requirements." If a province wants to make an internal assessment, it must strongly motivate it, otherwise it will not happen. You'll find that in the pieces. That doesn't mean you're next to those provinces. No, that means that as a government, you're using the provinces as the performer of your plans. And that is not what the whole agricultural sector is all about, not in that whole plan. I also do not hear Mr De Groot indicate how he would get a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u49	I do not share this view, because the agricultural sector is at the table of all the regional processes. In fact, now that it's getting exciting, they've run away in a number of field processes. I'm sorry to hear that. Secondly, the provinces have a great deal of space to implement areas-specifically. But no, it is not without obligation, because what they come up with will have to be tested by an ecological authority to see if that actually contributes to putting those natural areas in a good condition. The second lock that is on the door is that all this should add up to 74% of the areas, of the area, below the critical deposition values, because that will be in the law in 2030. It must therefore also work as an obligation to the government. The third lock that sits on the door is that the whole thing has to be so convincing to a judge that he says: I'm finally going to believe this government and I'm going to believe that this government is able to restore that nature with each other and to prevent decline. Those are the two elements of the law. So within those three benchmarks, the provinces have all the space to make their own plans. It will also be up to the Minister to explain all this earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u50	Finally. This is a wonderful example of the question to the turkey how he wants to be prepared and served at Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u51	I shall go first to Mr Boswijk, then to Mrs Beckerman and then to Mr Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr De Groot's party leader made a remark recently, in my view two weeks ago, about 'distorting provinces'. I have a question for Mr De Groot. How does Mr De Groot feel that such a remark contributes to this transition in this difficult process, where we really need those provinces and those sector parties as far as the CDA is concerned, and not just as far as we are concerned? 'Cause I don't think we're ever gonna make it without those provinces. I am certainly asking this because there are 89 proposals from the provinces on the Minister's desk, among other things to make Yara in Zeeland, which emits a lot of ammonia, more sustainable, or to buy farmers out voluntarily. Those proposals have been there for a long time. How does Mr De Groot feel about these comments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u53	That was our group chairman, Jan Paternotte, who is indeed concerned about the willingness and courage of the provincial leaders: are they really able to deliver this difficult message as well? Because the initial reactions to the plans were not very encouraging in that respect. In my own province of Fryslân the college said: we already have a plan; dear minister, have fun with your own plans. That's not reality. Because when they presented their plan, they said: there is more coming from The Hague and we fit in. So it's not easy either, I'm not saying that it's easy for provincial directors, but D66 wants them to take real responsibility now, and not have discussions that we've been having for far too long about whether the models are right and whether it doesn't end at the German border and so on. That kind of discussion doesn't belong in the provinces; what does belong in the province is the discussion about how we're going to do this together. They know the area and they know how to put that nature in a good condition. If that's the conversation, D66 has every confidence that the provinces are going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u54	In any case, I have noticed from my colleagues that this statement does not help the debate. There have been provinces that have already said to the previous minister: we have many farmers who have come forward to be bought out. Those farmers have been waiting for a response for over a year. There are proposals to make factories more sustainable. That doesn't work. That's why I'd really like to do an apple. It is an extremely emotional and complex issue. Words matter. However, I would like to ask that we keep each other together a little bit, and that we do not put provinces, which are sometimes in a difficult situation, as flabbergasting. I think it is good that they are also critical and always see what is feasible in their province. Sometimes that's very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u55	Of course, I always bring such a sympathetic apple from a coalition companion. So my answer is a full yes, but I also say, as an appeal to the Minister for Nature, prepare yourself. Because when the tractors entered the province of Friesland, we unfortunately saw that the nitrogen plans were off the table a day later. We have seen how in Brabant a college was literally overthrown by the tractors that stood on the sidewalk. It was the fraction of your own party, Mr Boswijk, that said there: we cannot support it anymore. So yes, we have these agreements with each other and I am taking this apple with me. I say yes in full but I would also remind you that what we have seen in the past also votes for realism. That is why I ask the Minister: if it does not work for any reason, what does the plan B look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr Boswijk's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u57	Of course, I have seen these examples, but I have seen in recent years, and certainly in recent months, also delegates, Peter Drenth in Gelderland, for example, who are really doing a lot of work there. I've been to work with him and he's standing in rooms and he says to farmers: boys, nature is in a bad state and we have to take steps. I can even see he's doing it, empathy and perspective. He says we're helping you with sustainability and switching, and we're also looking at industry. Does Mr De Groot now agree with me that the proposals of the provinces that are already there must be made very quickly and that we must react quickly and give them a little space and confidence? It really is a different reality than it was three years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yeah, I agree. Fortunately, in the province of Brabant, we now also have a board that just goes through. Gelderland is also a good example, and so is Overijssel. Yeah, there's definitely drivers with a straight back. That's what we're gonna build on. So I will pass on your appeal to the Minister to work with the proposals that lie ahead, even when it comes to the relationship with what you do generically and at national level, for example with barn standards or the buy-out of large industrial peak loaders. I really think it is up to the Minister, with the flexibility she gets from D66, to ensure that that goal is finally achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u59	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u60	I also hear a lot of excuses that I had not immediately asked this question, namely that the Ministry of Finance always looks very much at it as effectively as possible and that you have to jump through all kinds of hoops. Does Mr De Groot agree with me that we are in a crisis situation and that we should give the provinces a little more freedom to at least speed up the stopping arrangements? How does Mr De Groot look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u61	In my opinion, the Minister has also started work on "What's that called again? A sacrifice you cannot refuse in bad Dutch, so an offer you can't refuse. Oh, yes, a fiercely attractive offer. That's about her paying 100% of the value in the event of a buy-in. So that's already in the current arrangement. On the other hand, however, I also think that we should be careful with the tax money and that we should use the euro that we have as effectively as possible to restore nature, because that is what we are talking about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u62	First of all, I would like to say that I think that this debate is too much about ourselves and too little about farmers and the solutions. My question is specifically about this. I hear Mr De Groot talking about the plans and sometimes I see him looking a little cowardly at the reaction that has come. The example has been mentioned of a bioboer next to the Ommelanden in Groningen who thinks to do well and who has beautiful fields but then suddenly sees on a map that there is huge reduction rates. At the same time, there is a letter of perspective that offers no perspective. Mr De Groot just said it himself. So we can't be concrete? When we say that we must have courage, we must also show that courage. My specific question is as follows. Will Mr De Groot go along with our proposal that the billions of euros earmarked for this should actually end up where they are meant to be, namely in rural areas, and that we should ask the banks and therefore also the Rabobank to pay with it? A very concrete proposal to offer real perspective, because that is missing for a lot of people now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u63	I would like to talk about the lack of perspective. D66 is also very critical of this. You have also drawn attention to this in your own contribution. You can't just tell farmers what they can't do anymore, but you have to tell them what they can do. Then there are the suppliers and, in particular, the supplier of money. D66 is also very critical of this and I have also been very critical of the long time that banks have continued to finance a bankrupt agricultural system. For we have known this for a long time and it is also in government notes from a long time ago. So D66 is also very critical of this with the SP, in the sense that there should not be a solidarity levy. It would be a shame if you were using the farmer to make the bank's balance sheet. I feel that with the SP. I will also ask the Minister: what can we do with it in our rule of law? Because if you look at the mindset, the interview that the CEO of the largest bank of the Netherlands recently gave, then it also gets a bit scared to me or as the quarter has fallen that the system is bankrupt and that it really has to be radically different. So yes, I'll pass on your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u64	That is very nice, but we see a spokesperson here who says 'we have set aside 25 billion for farmers and for nature', but that is actually not true. That is not, in fact, true if that money then ends up with the bank, the co-causer. Mr. Chairman. Another example. Mr De Groot just said that the farmer's income model must be at the forefront and that he has fought for it. At the moment organic farmers are possible, but it is a niche. That's partly due to outside pressure. If we want to give all farmers a fair chance of switching while at the same time there are all kinds of products coming from abroad that have been produced in a much less sustainable way, then that is not a fair chance. Then I would like to ask D66, through the chairman, not to direct it to the cabinet, but: what is your own view on that? How can you really ensure that these farmers are no longer stuck with Rabobank and politics, but are no longer trapped in that world market? Are you prepared, for example, to stop the CETA Convention in the First Chamber? Because that is a very big problem, because it will make it much more difficult for a very large number of farmers to switch over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u65	World trade is partly a real problem for Dutch agriculture. This has to do with price formation on the world market and with imports of raw materials. Fortunately, there are now the first proposals in Europe, for example, to restrict the import of soya, because this is about making agriculture more sustainable. The CETA Convention is actually very good for the Dutch farmer, for example the export of cheese to Canada is increasing. D66 is an open-eyed party to the world, and trade is one of them; cooperation is one of them. Is that perfect? No. That is why D66 has said: we are going to look very critically at these trade agreements, also at what they do with our environment, with climate and with nature. So I'm going with you, but CETA, that's up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u66	I completely disagree with D66, but completely disagree with it. But I must compliment Mr De Groot today, because he still decides what happens in the coalition. In the mid-term debates you saw VVD and CDA making a bit of a fuss, about a ticket and about the words and especially the tone of course. But D66 and Mr. De Groot still decide what's going to happen. I don't know how far we are at that seven-course dinner of yours right now. The amuse shot a number of people in the wrong throat. Suppose we continue that you continue to hold on to 50% and wipe out half the peasantry, after which the CDA will no longer have departments that support it and run away from the VVD members. Are you going to keep pushing this nitrogen policy down the throats of CDA and VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u67	When I get compliments from the PVV, I always listen extra carefully, because then something comes up. What we are talking about is that the PVV will not agree with D66. It is very bad with our nature. 80% of the bugs are gone. The oak forests are dying. You should like that, too. We'll be able to enjoy nature less and less in the future. We're gonna fix it up now, including for your supporters. The farmer's income is also bad. Look at a pig farmer. It gets 10% of a pig's profits. 60% is for animal feed and 30% for butchery. So the farmer doesn't deserve anything. In fact, the PVV wants to maintain everything as much as possible as it is now, by the way the PVV operates, by not intervening, by not giving farmers a perspective. That's not how D66 operates. D66 is committed to a fair price for farmers and a fair perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. De Groot listens badly to the live stream, but even if I'm a few meters away from him, the question doesn't come across. The question was whether you would continue with this policy, even though the whole CDA and the entire VVD collapse. We've seen the D66 Congress. While CDA and VVD are on the ground, you came in again with a stretched leg and sprinkled a kilo of salt into the wound by coming up with a motion that it could all go up. I see you smiling; you remember that. So the question is again, for the second time, the next. If any more trouble breaks out in this country, if any more misery happens, if the gap with the rest of the population gets even bigger, will D66 continue to push this nitrogen policy down the throat of the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr Mulder is trying to stir up a good marriage, but that's just not gonna work. There are parties in this Chamber who have the courage and take the responsibility to put their hands together for the great problems that this society has. Then it's about climate, then it's about nitrogen, then it's about justice. Other parties remain on the sidelines, take the measure, burn as much as possible. That's serious, because out of those 150 seats there are just some... if you're sitting here, you really have to be willing to take responsibility and come up with plans. Sometimes those plans require you to explain that to your own supporters. I also need to explain things to my own supporters, and so do you. If you do not take responsibility, then nothing will happen and this country will go further backwards and we will no longer solve political problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u70	Now Mr. De Groot suddenly has a hard time and needs a lot of words, but again he doesn't answer a very simple question. I think everyone who listens hears what is actually said here. And that is that Mr De Groot will continue to determine what is happening in the area of nitrogen. I think it would be good for the local sections, for the members, but also for the voters of CDA and VVD in this country, to listen very carefully to this. They'll know what's coming for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you. Mr Grinwis, Christian Union. Oh, first Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'd still like to continue on Marianne Zwagerman's podcast. Mrs. Van der Plas had already mentioned it. Prof. Dr. Han Lindeboom, Professor of Marine Ecology, said in that podcast: "When the conclusions were presented, Mr. De Groot would have said to him: don't tell anyone, we don't need this at the moment." Did Mr De Groot indeed say so or is Prof. Dr. Han Lindeboom lying?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr Lindeboom is not here. It goes far too far to exchange quotes here. We have all kinds of discussions within D66. I'm not going into this at all. This is a really weird way. We are talking here about a very big problem of nature, about people who, with all their senses, contribute to it and do so very much. This is how we try to make the world better, but of course this doesn't help anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u74	Well, I think it helps, because it is indeed a huge problem. As far as BVNL is concerned, the basis is completely wrong and there is no nitrogen problem as such. Even though Professor Han Lindeboom is not here, I would like an answer from Mr De Groot. Did you say this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'm not going into that at all. This is absolutely irrelevant. It's party meetings from years ago. I'm not going into that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u76	We often have people standing here who can't remember certain things, but to just say "I'm not even gonna say if I said that because it's irrelevant"... I think it's very relevant, because someone is lying. Or it really happened that way, and then it was just influence. I will conclude with one final question. Ammonia, nitrogen oxide, nitrite, nitrate, NO, NO, is ultimately just a nutrient. It's food for a poor soil. What happens, according to Mr De Groot, when nitrogen deposition occurs on a sand spray?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u77	Are we gonna play school here? It's a very strange way to do this. We had a hearing on the nitrogen figures, because there were parties like you who questioned it every time. That is also a bit the suggestion behind your question and behind your insinuation that it is all wrong, that it should not be discussed. Because of these sounds we have said together: we are going to invite all scientists to hear about the acidification of nature, with the leaching of minerals, which means that there is not enough calcium in the soil, which eventually also breaks their legs. You want me to tell you all that? What are we doing here? During that meeting with those scientists we said together: we know more than enough to get to work and it is necessary for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u78	This is pretty hilarious, isn't it? I've asked the VVD before. Then there was no answer either. What happens is that the vegetation eventually changes. It's a transition area. Then you go from low-food soil to rich soil. There'll be a birch forest or an oak forest. Is that bad? No, that's okay at all. The real problem is that we once misappointed the Natura 2000 sites in Europe. As a result, you have now created a paper reality, and Mr De Groot is clinging to it. Does Mr De Groot not agree with me that if we had done this differently, if we had just called all these Natura 2000 sites "forests" it would have been a completely different problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr Van Haga calls it change, but it is impoverishment. Our nature is rapidly impoverished. That has to do with nitrogen. It's not a change. It's impoverishment. Plants get very creative when there is little food. Nitrogen is basically food falling out of the sky. It makes roots lazy, because plants don't have to take it out of the soil anymore. This means that, even with the drought that we are going to see more and more, plants eventually die of dehydration. It's about mortality. It's about impoverishment and it's not about change. I really think that's a reprehensible frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u80	It's getting funnier and funnier. So we're going to have a birch forest or an oak forest with very lazy roots and that's why we have a big problem? That's total bullshit. Just let that transform. We cut down the woods a few hundred years ago. That's when those sandy plains came into being, those heathlands. Those are, of course, beautiful areas. I like them, too. You can support them in all kinds of different ways. But if you let nitrogen deposition take place, you're gonna get woods. Those woods aren't gonna have any lazy roots, are they? They go very deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u81	If there's one species of tree threatened by nitrogen, then it's oak, so we'll just write this down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u82	I shall continue with Mr Boswijk's question. Mr De Groot was just talking about this card. He expressed his concern or his dissatisfaction with the dark green areas: the Natura 2000 areas where 95% less nitrogen deposition should be achieved. In the edges around it, 70% less should be achieved in eleven of the twelve provinces. He was expressing his concerns. Then he probably also thinks of Schiermonnikoog, the coastal areas and other areas, including transition areas, where there are a lot of nature-inclusive, extensive, often organic, dairy farmers who should not be the child of the child. At the same time, D66 talks about "distorting provinces." That's unnecessarily polarizing, isn't it, this, as far as I'm concerned, chit-chat? Especially in the provinces there are delegates and members of the States who often know much more about nitrogen than we do here together. They've been working on it for years. Then why not radiate confidence into those provinces, but every time some sort of distrust? It happened again last night. Mr De Groot tabled a motion to the two-minute debate on Water, which is already being pre-sorted: if it does not contribute sufficiently to the quality of water, then reject it. There is already mistrust and some sort of control in the front. Where is the concept with colleague De Groot of the decentralised unitary state, of the house of Thorbecke? Where's the trust in our provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u83	It is also realism, because there is a real problem in the field of water. We should have made it in 2015. We're talking 2027 right now. I find it an extremely strange question from our water expert, why we no longer trust the provinces on their blue eyes. My group chairman spoke of 'distorting provinces'. Mr Grinwis refers to it as throwing oil on the fire, while the chairman of the Christian Union group said about the plans he himself signed: this is going to be a civil war. That's what I think of throwing oil on the fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr Grinwis' final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u85	I said I liked the word "dirty provinces" talk. What Mr Segers said was: there is not just something written down from The Hague that affects the heads of other people. No, this touches the heart of a lot of farmers. This touches the heart of many people who have been connected to their land for decades, generations, sometimes hundreds of years. It's not just a coat you take off and another coat you put on. This is going incredibly deep. This affects people's existence. We can sometimes sign a little too easily here from The Hague: this is what it should look like. This is so incredibly deep. I would ask Mr De Groot to pay a little more attention and respect for this, because we really need to do this together. Then we'll get on with it. Needless to say, polarizing doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u86	If there is one who works on behalf of D66 every day, with a warm heart for the peasants, then I am. That's different than talking people to the mouth. It is something other than suggesting that the translation of the signature that your group chairman stands for would trigger a civil war. That's an equation that really goes past everything. That's what I call throwing oil on the fire. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u87	We really need to talk about the abuses within D66 that were brought to light last night by Mr Lindeboom. What Mr De Groot has just said about this is a completely different picture from what Mr Lindeboom is describing. I will briefly give you the facts: Mr Lindeboom says that in the autumn of 2019 that focus group nitrogen came together. In doing so, Mr Lindenboom, based on his knowledge and expertise, has been promoted on this subject, and has shown that the nitrogen model of the RIVM is not right and that it should never be used to base policy. According to what Mr De Groot has just said, Mr De Groot said 'that's interesting', 'I take note of it' and 'are you going to publish this in particular'. But according to Mr Lindeboom, Mr De Groot said at that time: you should not bring that out, because that is corn on the mill of Baudet. After all, it was Baudet who has been hammering on it since the beginning of the nitrogen scandal that the model is not right. So I ask the question again: is Mr Lindeboom sucking all this out of his mind, or is Mr De Groot lying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u88	You couldn't draw that conclusion at all. You still can't draw the conclusion that, if you're criticizing the model, it's very valid criticism; I can't judge you with that. That is exactly what Forum does here: if there is criticism of the model, put the whole model away. And if that was the thrust of a comment, then that's right. After all, you cannot say: there is one aspect that you can improve on the model, and that is why the whole model is wrong. That is what Mr Van Meijeren keeps saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u89	No, it is about Mr Lindeboom showing, as he himself put out in that podcast yesterday, that the model is not right. The central question here is: how did they react? Did Mr De Groot say 'that's interesting; I take note of that', or did he say 'you shouldn't publish that, because that's corn on the mill at Baudet'? Who is lying here, Mr De Groot or Mr Lindeboom? Because it can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u90	It's about the evidence. When you say: it has been shown that the model does not work, you are completely out of reality. And yes, if you are completely out of reality, then you are indeed on the ground of Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you. Your last question, Mr. Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u92	What a childish reaction. Of course, a scientist who investigates such a model can come to the conclusion that that model is inadequate. What has been shown here is that Mr De Groot at that time tried to influence that scientist by saying that you should not bring that out. The lying attitude that Mr De Groot now has, by constantly turning around it, confirms yet again that D66 is always hiding behind science to beat every debate to death, but in reality is not interested in real science at all and only in politically influential science. That's what we call pseudoscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr De Groot, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u94	It is extremely bad to talk about science in this way. That if there's a discussion and you disagree, you're gonna turn science away as pseudoscience. It's extremely bad. I have some questions for the Minister of Nature. I will go through that quickly and then I will come to the Minister of Agriculture, if you will allow me. I'll read them to you shortly. Mr. Chairman. Suppose the Empire is going to do more generically, for example setting standards on stables and skimming phosphate rights. How does this relate to the legal obligation to avoid deterioration per area? The second question is: is the Minister going to set targets for water, climate and nitrogen as an obligation to achieve results for the province? Three. Is the Minister willing to include smell as a structuring choice? Four. What does the Minister do with farmers who are already working in the natural environment and who have low emissions? Those were the questions to the Minister for Nature. Then I'm going back to the two peasants, Annemiek and Bastian. What good is the Perspective Note? The Minister for Agriculture goes into the areas in his memo and begins the transition with the farmers. We have said: the transition begins with the processing industry. So that's not true. We have said that the transition is for the whole country, and not by area. That's gonna work out differently in the area. This minister sends the neighbors into the woods with that. Farmers have a right to perspective and clarity about what is desired in the area of feed and manure and how to deal with the soil. Is the Minister prepared to make a very big catch-up? A brief question: can the Minister give a look at the definition of circular agriculture? Two. Which kpis does he intend to develop in the areas of feed, manure and soil? Three. How will the Minister then ensure that private quality systems contain a mandatory cycle farming module in the areas of feed, manure and soil? And finally, what about the transition to animal husbandry? Thank you, Mr President. I hope that we will be able to give farmers Annemiek and Bastiaan more clarity today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u95	Thank you. There are a few more questions. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u96	I recognize a lot in D66's plea and the struggle for nature. That's where we'll find each other. I have one question. Mr De Groot will not be surprised. When arguing for circular agriculture and the justified criticism of the Minister for Agriculture that there is actually no perspective for farmers, we must also look at the free trade agreements. Fortunately, the European Commission has said at last: if countries outside Europe have lower standards for climate, biodiversity and animal welfare, then we need to make higher demands on imports. If countries do not meet this requirement, we will come up with an import tax. Finally, because it is necessary to protect the farmers here. There's another treaty in the First Chamber that doesn't have that in it. Many dairy farmers are against it. Flavour builders and pig farmers suffer from CETA, because the standards in it are lower. Is D66 prepared to bring in new insights on this point, too, and to say: should we stop doing so if we try to bring our farmers into such a violent transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u97	It is very nice that we in Europe are now also thinking about how to make trade more sustainable. That's what D66 is all about. In fact, the former Minister for Foreign Trade, Sigrid Kaag, has also been tough on this. D66 supports the treaty that is now in place. We conclude that treaty with a country like us: a western, civilized country. Is it perfect? No. However, it is important to look at this world with an open eye. Perhaps the terrible war in Ukraine has made that even more topical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u98	I regret that, and I am sure that the war will be brought into play. I do not think that we are in direct war with Canada if we agree that it is so fair that products that may be sold here in the Netherlands should not be made under lower production standards than we hold our farmers to. D66 rightly asks what the perspective is and what the definition of circular agriculture is, and says that we need to do so. I would like to make an urgent appeal. D66 has a lot of new insights, but I'm sorry it's stuck here a little bit. We're going to send cheese from the Netherlands to Canada. Many dairy farmers do not like that, because they have to produce cheaper and cheaper for this export drive. We know that the standards for arable crops and pig farming in Canada are lower. However, they may export tariff-free to Europe. That's just not fair. If you ask for a perspective, let us all agree that protection at the external borders of Europe is the least that farmers can expect from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u99	At this time, it is very important that you keep an open eye to the world, especially to friendly countries. This was considered in the coalition agreement. Mrs Ouwehand has a point. If we are going to be in the Netherlands moving towards a sustainable agriculture, a circular agriculture, it cannot be that this will lead to supermarkets that are paying attention to only three things: price, price and price: okay, then we will get the cheese from Germany, because it is a few cents per kilo cheaper there. That is why we have said: we are going to give this Minister the mandate to force, if necessary legally, that supermarkets are completely transparent about what they have on the shelves, how sustainable that is and whether it includes a fair price for farmers. So yes, that way there is still no way that the shelves will be filled with cheaper products from abroad. It is not prohibited, but supermarkets have to declare it mandatory, verifiable and transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u100	But Mr De Groot recognizes here... And thank you for that. I also support this initiative, but I don't think you can expect everything from it. If livestock farming is shrinking here and if agriculture is to meet higher standards, that alternative to cheaper arable products and pork from Canada remains attractive. Mr De Groot knows that as long as you allow it, it will be used. So I ask D66 to think again about this and to join in the call of the Party for Animals to the cabinet: this is part of a fair perspective for farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u101	Then we go to Mr Thijssen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u102	The Labour Party believes that something needs to be done now. We need fewer animals, but we do need the farmers in this country. We believe that we should stand alongside the farmers so that they can experience this transition from the agricultural system. I hear Mr De Groot say a number of times: it is good that all this is happening now. But the picture we've been talking about before seems to have become a talk album. Mr De Groot is already asking the Minister for a plan B if it is not going to happen. My question is that there is talk about the need to innovate and the need to create stables that would solve all the problems. Some of them have also called them "swimming stables." My question is: does D66 think that there should be room for this, or should it be made clear to farmers and said that there should be a fundamental transition and that these shuffles have only a very limited, or indeed no, role in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u103	You can see that technical hairminder oil from the past has often not worked. That's a big drama, because you're gonna cost the farmers. They have to go to the bank to borrow money, and ultimately they don't work such a low-emission floor, and in the end they promise a lot more on paper than how they actually work. That is why D66 is hesitant about technological solutions. But D66 isn't against it. That's for the next reason. Under two conditions, you can really use technology. The first condition is that it should fit into the area. You have to avoid saying to a farmer: you can stay here with technology for a while, while the whole area plan shows that that is false hope. So you need to see if it fits into the area first. The second condition is that it fits in with the transition to circular agriculture. The Lely Sphere has been mentioned. You can say that the Lely Sphere is a solution, but if you put it in an existing company that continues to feed soy and corn exactly as we do now, which continues with rotten manure and doesn't improve soil handling, then you only have technology without incorporating it into the change that the Minister of Agriculture is setting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u104	I hope the cabinet has listened carefully and that it will take this with it. Then I have another question. Let's say it all works out. Suppose we get nature back in a better state of conservation, that we get beautiful nature again, and that there is also room to issue permits. How's that going? The PvdA is concerned that they are then for the highest bidder, that airports, the fossil industry and people who want to build a villa can buy nitrogen space, but that the social housing, the PAS detectors and the energy transition are fishing behind the net. How's D66 in there? Does D66 also consider that space that is available should be freed for, for example, building social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u105	I think that's an interesting question. At the time when there will be permit space again, it will only come when there is a real view of the recovery of nature and if the judge believes that the approach is indeed going to work. How do you deal with the nitrogen space that arises? I think that is a very fair question. We have not considered that. Of course, we have said: these PAS detectors are simply entitled to a permit. From D66 I also say that sustainable investment should be given priority. That's what they've gotten a little bit in the previous nitrogen package. There is a possibility that there will be a trade-off. The question of how to divide up the scarce space seems to me to be worth a whole political debate. But I find the question interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u106	For the Labour Party, it seems like a no-brainer. If we go to all this trouble, we should be the first to give room for social housing. But we're gonna live to see it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr. De Groot, for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u109	I will immediately hand over the baton to Mr Thijssen for his contribution. Mr Thijssen is from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. Nature is essential to all life on Earth. It is also essential for human life on Earth. Nature purifies our drinking water, cleans our air and produces our food. So it's very important that we start making sure that nature can recover. But you're only gonna be a farmer in this country, and you're gonna see this coming your way. The Labour Party therefore feels it is only natural that we should stand next to the farmer and ensure that he can experience this transition from the agricultural system, a transition to an agriculture within the planetary boundaries. This must be done for the farmer, but it must also be done for our food, for nature and for the quality of life in the countryside. That's what it takes. Because it's not just nature that's bad. We are also experiencing the biggest housing crisis since World War II. That's because if we build or inhabit houses, a little bit of nitrogen is released. And nature is in such a bad state that even a little bit of nitrogen causes a further deterioration of nature, which means that no permits are issued. The Labour Party finds that indigestible. It is now three years since the judge delivered the judgment in which he said that the nitrogen policy had to be removed from the table at that time. Since then, CDA, VVD, D66 and ChristianUnion have been watching it, and they are letting it happen. The accident is taking place in front of us and these parties are on their hands. That must really be over, because there are now provinces that no longer issue permits for homes, which no longer issue permits to companies that want to invest in the economy of the future. It's horrible!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr Thijssen says that things have been very bad with nature and so on. Maybe I can confront him with some comments from his party colleague Ronald Plasterk, a well-known policy critic. I hear from the audience that he is no longer a member of the Labour Party? Or has he already switched to GroenLinks? Well, you can still do that, of course. But I don't want to bring up the merger of two parties here. I just wanted to point out that during this debate Mr Plasterk mentioned that Dutch nitrogen emissions have not increased over the last 30 years, but have been reduced by 68%. It has fallen more here than in any other country in the EU. Germany is at 5%, France at 1.7% and Belgium at 44%. These are Eurostat's figures. I'd like to hear your comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u112	If you want to ask Ronald Plasterk a question, I think you should call him and have a conversation with him. If you ask me what is the state of our earth, of our planet, on which all life is to be found, I say: it is five to twelve. And maybe it's later. I got my inspiration from the fact that I graduated from the first Dutch astronaut. He had a picture in his room of "hearthrise." That photo was taken by astronauts when they flew around the earth and saw the earth come up behind the moon. They took a picture of it 50 years ago, and that picture went all over the world. Everyone on Earth suddenly realized: that's it, boys. It was thought: on that little ball in space we have to grab it, with all the life we know, with all the people we know. And a little later, the report of the Club of Rome came out. It said, "We're making that earth unliveable in an instant." And now we see that we have been working very hard on this in recent decades. So we're gonna have to stop the climate crisis. We also need to stop the natural crisis. It has just been said: the number of insects in the Netherlands has fallen by 80%. We need those insects to pollinate our own food. So yes, it is very much necessary to stop the climate crisis and stop the nature crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u113	I note that Mr Thijssen's reply is exactly the same as his maiden speech last year, with which I congratulated him. But you cannot put Mr Plasterk's comments aside. He's a very experienced and successful scientist. You can't just say: that remark isn't important, because it's very bad, it's five past twelve and so on, and so on? It's a serious remark. Then you can say 'I'm going into space and this and that', but I think Mr Plasterk, as your fellow party member, deserves a real answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u114	I love to hear you remember my maiden speech. That drive has been the same for the past 20 years, so I can dream this story. That goes very deep with me. Again, I base myself, for example, within climate science, on the UN climate panel, where thousands of scientists work together and come to a consensus on the state of our climate. They ring the alarm bells over and over again, year after year. They indicate that we need to make much braver decisions in this kind of parliament, that we need to tell people much better that it's five to twelve and that we need to help those people to make their homes more sustainable, to set up their lives in a different way. If you would then like my comment on one person who writes columns, I would say: you must enter into the conversation with that person. You can explain to him why he says things like that. But I base myself on, for example, the UN climate panel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you. Last question for Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u116	I have a question, also on behalf of my colleague Van Campen. Mr Thijssen often tells us a mirror. I think it's good that we reflect on our role in the past. I made a statement about that once. All those bells then took me a few days! I am only sorry that I do not see that reflection with Mr Thijssen himself. I am simply curious: who were once again the signatories to the amendment, which ultimately gave us the PAS? What parties were these people from? By the way, there was one person in my party. And of which party was the ruler who was on the buttons when the milk quota was abolished? I don't need an answer, because I already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u117	Well, shall I proceed with my argument then? Of course, this isn't about how we got here. It's mainly about what hasn't happened in the last three years. The point is that in the last three years nothing has been done to bring about new nitrogen policies, to restore nature and to remove this land from the castle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u118	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u119	Minister Van der Wal has meanwhile started her nitrogen policy and published a map. That card is indeed quite shocking, but the Minister is quite sure that these are the goals that need to be met. Compliments for that. I also respect the way in which she has spoken to angry farmers near her own home. I'd love to do some action, but I think it's a lot when people get this close to your own house. I also respect how she deals with the members of her own party who lose weight. That's not easy. But when I look very closely at the plans, I don't see very hard targets, I see a talk picture. And when I look very closely at the process, I see a talking process. I see a lot of delegates who think it's bullshit, or not, but who at least aren't very willing to do it all properly. So my question is: is it really going to happen now? What does the Minister think about the CDA, the VVD and also the farmer's bank of the country saying: we can just go down the same road and get those reductions done? Is she gonna give space to that or not? Is she really gonna make it happen? And what will the Minister do if, in a year's time, it turns out that those goals are not being met? Doesn't it just mean one more year of uncertainty for farmers in the country? Mr. Chairman. My question is also about how legally hard this approach actually is. Can we issue permits for homes again tomorrow? Can we issue permits to companies that want to innovate and build the sustainable economy of the future tomorrow? And can we get the PAS detectors a permit tomorrow? When does this country go off the lock, I ask the Minister. Then the earning power of the farmers after the transition. For years, the vision of a number of parties in this house was that we should increase the scale so that farmers could earn their money. This has resulted in a bald blow in the countryside. Almost half of the number of farmers has disappeared in recent decades. And still several farmers stop a day. How's that bald blow gonna stop? After all, we need fewer animals in this country, but not fewer farmers. I have struggled through the 40 sides of Minister Staghouwer's letter. More and more, I understand why there were 40,000 farmers protesting yesterday. After the transition, it is completely unclear how farmers can still earn a fair living if they produce our food. I therefore invite the Minister to present this vision to Parliament immediately and to make it clear to those farmers who want to join, how they should earn their living in a number of years' time. Just a dairy farmer who would like to earn a few cents more for a liter of milk. What does that look like in the future? I'm curious. Mr. Chairman. Farmers, but also nature, and as a result of this also the house-seeker, are victims of a loosely capitalist market system, with all kinds of perverse incentives for farmers to harm nature. But not everyone is a victim. A few parties in the agricultural system have become very wealthy of this system. They have grown into Quote 500 companies or become the largest farm bank in the Netherlands. There is talk with the Labour Party about releasing billions of community money to stand after those farmers and help them in that transition. But then the PvdA thinks it is only normal to ask for a contribution from those parties, from those large companies, which have benefited so much from this system in recent years. Does the Minister agree with the Labour Party? Then, of course, we want the 25 billion, 24 billion or whatever it is going to be, to be spent a little efficiently. Today we have read in NRC that maybe half of it can be done. That would be great! Because we still have some ideas for 10 billion. With these high energy prices, we could do something about purchasing power repair for the teachers, agents and nurses in the country. But why are these studies actually being made? And is this really what the Minister intends to do in a year's time, if the talking circus with the talk picture has not succeeded? So this is plan B? Is this how we're gonna make sure the targets are met? Finally. Hopefully there will soon be room to issue permits. How's that going? I was just asking Mr De Groot to do the same. Does that nitrogen space then go to the highest bidder, to the rich who want to build a villa, to the fossil industries that want to go on for a while and now make a lot of profit, or to airports? Or does the Minister, like the Labour Party, believe that this space should go to social housing, the PAS detectors and the energy transition? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you, Mr Thijssen. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr President. On an unliveable earth, no one can earn a living, let alone have siege on it. There is no room for any entrepreneurship there. We're all living in the sixth extinction wave. That's how bad it is. That's how bad it is. The United Nations Climate Panel and the scientists warn that we have not only missed the safest limit, where there is no global warming; we are not going to reach the limit after that, of one degree of warming, and that after that, of 1.5 degree, we are simply not going to make it. This means a lot, not least for the farmers themselves, who have to deal with more extreme weather, drought or large rainfall. Then there is a crisis, perhaps even bigger than the climate crisis, which is almost impossible to imagine, namely the biodiversity crisis, the extinction of plant and animal species and the deterioration of our soil. This is the most important thing we have in order to survive as a species, in order to give our children and grandchildren a future. That's what's at stake. We are the last generation of politicians who can change something to avert the disaster scenarios. Mr. Chairman. In this context, agricultural policy has always been very decisive, for the climate, for biodiversity, for the quality of our water and our living environment, for clean air to breathe in, and for the people working in the agricultural system. The sad reality is that the agricultural policy in the Netherlands has only resulted in losers over the past 50 years. There are only losers: nature, animals, the environment, water quality and the farmers themselves. Over the last twenty years, the huge number of animals in the Dutch livestock sector has remained virtually the same, while the number of farmers has been halved. No one wins in this bankrupt system. There are a few exceptions, such as the cattle feed industry and the Rabobank, which has only become a little rich from the constant management of technological innovations. As a result, farmers had to invest and knock on the door at Rabobank. The Rabobank said you can, but you have to expand. All this was at the expense of those farmers who would have liked to continue to work on a small scale. Those guys took advantage. They will therefore have to pay with them, or actually pay back what they have wrongly earned at the expense of farmers, at the expense of nature and at the expense of taxpayers. So my first question to the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen is: how will she prevent the buy-out linea recta from filling the Rabobank's pockets again? And does she agree with the Animal Party, a number of other parties also argue that we should impose a levy on the great earners of this tragedy, so that they can contribute to the damage that has been caused? Mr. Chairman. I would like to compliment the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. We have had to wait a long time for it, but she is the first person in charge of Agriculture who is willing to give an honest description of why it is necessary to finally work on the restoration of nature, and to say that as a political failure we have failed in making courageous decisions on time. Thank you for that. I would add that the analysis is not yet complete, and the solutions are not yet sufficient. Before I go into that, I would like to say that I miss the Prime Minister, in the social debate and in this debate. There's been a lot of unrest. Everyone's talking about it, and rightly so. I understand that incredibly well. I have just outlined that farmers are also the losers here and that they have been told that innovation would solve it all. If politics hadn't waited so long to be honest, to make the basic choices that are needed, then we would also have had time to switch to an agricultural system that fits within the future, within the boundaries of nature. Now they have to go right through the bend. I understand that's very far-reaching. That is precisely why I believe that the Prime Minister has an important role to play in standing alongside the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen and explaining the points on which his cabinet has also failed. I'll take one example. That such an instrument, the critical deposition value is now being done so difficult... at your service, but it was all those agricultural parties who almost smilingly put the knife in the nature budget. And we were warned by professors of nature conservation law. They said, "Yes, you can delete that main ecological structure and you can save 70% on the natural budget, but know one thing: the worse nature is going to be, the harder the judge will test." We all knew. It was the Rutte I cabinet that just looked away from it and chose it. Before that, it was the Cabinets that were led by CDA prime ministers. So the analysis is not complete yet. I miss the Prime Minister in this debate to play his role in creating and regaining support and in overcoming the social unrest. Mr. Chairman. Then briefly. The analysis is not yet complete and the plans are not yet complete. Industry must contribute to reducing nitrogen emissions. It doesn't help that we now have a plan for livestock farming, a valid plan; that has to go even further, and that, for example, the province of Limburg recently decided to finance that airport there again. How's that gonna work out? Where are the targets for industry and what is the Minister going to say to such provinces? I've got to close up, I see, while I have a lot more to say. Finally, I would like to address the Minister for Agriculture. The perspective for farmers is non-existent in this way. In that letter we lack an integrated approach in which all objectives are met and in which we protect farmers from unfair external competition, including with Canada. I really do not understand why the Minister for Agriculture did not dare to make such choices in his letter of perspective. I'm asking him to make it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then we will listen to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating more than 20 years of failing agricultural policy. To all the peasants who look and think "but I have thus led my company with all my soul and salvation, done my best and kept me to the rules," I say: it is not your fault. It's not your fault as a farmer. You've done what politics has imposed on you for years. Those have been political mistakes. Mr Ouwehand has already pointed this out. You have been fooled, for years, by pretending to be able to scale up and as if we could manage the problems surrounding nitrogen with technological solutions. It can't be. I welcome the turn that I finally see, and I welcome the letter that the Minister has sent us. If we are not careful, this debate will soon be very small. It's about models and tickets. We're pretending to be able to fill out exactly what's going on here. It can't be. The letter is very clear: we are not just talking about nitrogen. We have a climate call and we have a water call. To anyone who now thinks or claims that we can drop that nitrogen and that we will get out of it with Europe, I say that we will be on the verge of the Water Framework Directive in five years' time. Then Europe will come and see it again. So we have three important objectives to achieve. That's what this letter says. We must not lose that perspective. Politics always works with models; that's how we make policies. If you want to have a discussion with me about the purchasing power models, which I would love very much, I can tell you exactly why they are not right and why they are not right. Yet we use them, because a model is a simplified representation of reality that helps you to get a grip on complexity. That's what those models do, including RIVM's. I've been reading all the critics on that. Most of the criticism comes from the RIVM itself. They are completely transparent about where the barriers are and for which you absolutely should not use them. The only people who use these models are the people in this room who say they're 100% true, and the people who say they're completely wrong and that they all need to be better. It's delay techniques, two ways. We must conduct the debate here and be honest with farmers. The truth is that we cannot continue on the road on which we are now. The livestock in the Netherlands will have to get smaller, whether you like it or not. Then I hear politicians say: there are a lot of nature reserves in the Netherlands for such a small country. Those nature reserves are really the last problem we have. There are too many farm animals in the Netherlands. Comparisons are made with other countries, such as France and Germany. These countries are considerably larger, so there are fewer cars and fewer farm animals per square kilometre. That's why there are big differences. The Remkes Committee was clear: we have to make choices. Not everything can happen in this country. You cannot have both data centres, and a hub function for an airport, as well as distribution centers and a large agricultural sector. Those choices are now finally being made, and for that my great compliments. Hang in there. Keep your back straight. Before I read some of the coalition parties' efforts and that the ticket should be changed. I want to tell them not to. Don't. That card is not the truth; it is a starting point. I do not know how many languages the Minister has yet to say, but it is a starting point. So if we're gonna put other colors on that card or if we're just putting different numbers or percentages on it, we're gonna make that card too important. You guys do it yourself. Honesty commands us to say: this is the map and this is where provinces have to work. That's probably gonna turn out different from what it looks like right now, but you need a starting point. I will therefore really oppose it if the Minister wishes to make commitments today to adjust that card if necessary. That is not because I think that the map is cast in concrete, but because it would give the wrong picture and make it too important. Don't do it. Be honest. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make it clear to the Minister for Nitrogen that we can talk about supporting this policy. When I look around the Chamber like that, it's really necessary, because that majority isn't there yet. But we can talk about this. But we're not there yet, because we're also critical of what lies ahead. That starts with the fact that I see that funds are still allocated to technical innovations. Innovation always sounds nice. Who doesn't want that? Then we're all thinking about new gadgets. But in recent years, we've seen it doesn't work. It's not working. That is why I have the following question. How many subsidies have gone to technological innovations in the last 30 years? How many billion are we talking about? What exactly has been the effect of this when it comes to reducing CO emissions? That is why I would like to say: do not expand the budget for technological innovations, but delete it. When I see that the budget for this technology is about the same as the budget for switching farmers, I say put the money in it. Make sure that a sustainable business is possible. Then there's industry and air traffic. It is indeed a big mistake that it is not there. I'm also looking at the coalition. How many weeks have you been talking about that letter? If you had considered this really important, you could have added this to it. We can decide today not to let Lelystad open. That is an important signal to farmers to show that we have heard them, and that they are right that it is not only a problem for the agricultural sector, but also for Lelystad. We can encourage the Minister to take rapid steps on industry and not to do so next July, but just this autumn. Finally. We also need to ensure that we are going to co-pay companies, such as the Rabobank, who are responsible for that terrible industry that has been created, I mentioned the underlying industry, and that there is going to be a form of bail-in. Finally. That is really the very last point, for the Minister of Agriculture. I'm a little less complimentary about the work you've done. I try to express myself carefully, but it comes close to gossiping. I have had to go over 50 pages and I still don't understand what the perspective is for farmers and what they can do if they really want to switch. I've spoken to farmers working on nature-inclusive agriculture. They say, "I have been digging through it, and we are on the right path. What does this mean for me?" That really means getting to work, not just in July, but as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u124	Last question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u125	More of a personal fact, Mr. Chairman. I was perhaps rather emotional just now when Mr Klaver used the words 'toxic' and 'dog whistle' and he also put me away as a house milker. There are, of course, all kinds of things that are being said, but I would like to stress once again that this is very dangerous. An hour ago, a man entered my house. Get the cops in there. An incredibly annoying situation. I don't know what would have happened if all this had happened, but this is something we have to look out for here, because it's going way too far now. All group chairmen are now getting alarm systems and their homes are being secured. Of course, it's not like it can be directly linked and I know we're taking each other's measurements again and again, but we have to stop doing this, because this is really going too far. So it leads to situations where our families are in danger. So this is a call to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u126	What's just said... it's terrible when someone's trying to get into your house. I don't know the details of it, but I'm very strong with that situation, because this is terrible. Unfortunately, we're all dealing with threats. I try to talk as little as possible about that myself, but I know the impact of this kind of thing happening at your house. I can only say: very much strength and I hope that the services will do everything in their power to get this situation under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. This is a debate that goes to the heart of our country. We saw that yesterday in Stroe and we also see that in this room where emotions are sometimes high. Sometimes harsh terms are also used. It has just been referred to and I do not want to come back to it now, but most of the people here in this Chamber are making an honest effort to get out together. JA21 merges with BBB, because nitrogen is a theme for both urban and rural areas. I was born in the countryside, in the Achterhoek. Where you were born, that raises you. I also lived in many big cities in the world. In the Netherlands, city and countryside belong together and the Randstad and the region form a whole. One cannot do without the other; we must be aware of that. We shouldn't turn the city and the countryside against each other. I must honestly say that the coalition has brought this problem about itself. We have to admit that to be fair. We cannot blame the EU, or the Council of State, or any judge. It is a political problem that must be solved politically. The basic problem is that the standards are too strict and the timetable is too short. So I'm not a nitrogen explorer, I'm not an oxygen explorer or other denier, but there has to be enough time to achieve the goals. I remember the Habitats Directive as yesterday, I can tell you. It was then referred to as the showpiece of the 1992 Dutch Presidency. Many Natura 2000 sites were designated under the Balkenende cabinet. Balkenende later tried to restore that to the Commission; he sent another letter of fire to Brussels. He was criticized by this Chamber; I think that is important to say. However, the whole of Natura 2000 sites is too much and, above all, too fragmented and we need to look at the possibility of recasting. The guidelines were developed in the Nature Protection Act of 2015, with stricter standards than other countries. Germany was much more coulant and has kein Stickstoffproblem. In 2020, the Rutte III cabinet added a little bit with the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act and the standards became even stricter. Supporters of the stricter nitrogen standards in the Lower House were among the following parties: VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion, the current coalition. These parties agreed to halve nitrogen emissions by 2035. That wasn't enough, because it had to go to 2030. The Netherlands had to become the frontrunner in Europe and guide country. Guide country has a high price nowadays. Dutch nitrogen legislation has become a corset. It was getting tighter and now people in the Netherlands barely get any air. We suffocated ourselves in our own rules. That doesn't just affect farmers. The construction of houses is also stopped. Lelystad Airport can't open. The Netherlands is locking itself up; not only the countryside, the cities also do so. That is why the city and the countryside must work together and work together. Therefore, the cooperation between JA21 and BBB. We've also made a ten-point plan that you've been given. Some try to turn city and country against each other. That's a dangerous polarization that could lead to social explosions. The leader of the Christian Union, Mr Segers, even used heavier terms. During Mrs Van der Plas' contribution, I heard voices from CDA, VVD, ChristenUnion and SGP who are also looking for changes to the current nitrogen approach to get out. I'm happy about that. Let's look together for solutions instead of fighting each other hard. The essence of the problem is that the nitrogen standards we apply are unfeasible and that the time path is pushing farmers and builders against the wall. Judges are entitled on the basis of laws, as adopted by the legislator. That's us, and that's the First Chamber, too. That is why we must have the political and intellectual honesty to look for what the legislator has thus misjudged us, because we are also making mistakes. There are often repair laws to reform laws. Let us also look at European foreign affairs to see how things are going there. Only Flanders, following our model, now claims to have a nitrogen problem. It doesn't exist in Wallonia. Germany has much wider standards. In the German coalition agreement, in which the Greens and Social Democrats are involved, the word 'Nuclear' is only used once. Our limit value for nitrogen is 0.07 grams/hectare, the German limit value is 100 grams/hectare. That's a huge difference. Mr. Chairman. To close, I call on VVD, CDA, ChristenUnion and SGP to see together how we can adapt the nitrogen rules so that we can get out of this clamp we created ourselves. The nitrogen rules have been made too strict in a short time and need to be relaxed. Mr President, I have 30 seconds so I can make one final point on D66. I heard D66 use the term "dumbling provinces." I've been away from the countryside for 50 years, but I can very well remember and imagine how people react to that. You shouldn't do that. It's derogatory. People see themselves put away by a party with a metropolitan constituency. Fortunately, there are elections in a democracy. On 15 March next year there will be provincial elections. This theme dominates those elections. I'm curious to see who's still messing around or screwed up on March 16th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. There is an interruption by Mr De Groot, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u130	There will indeed be elections next year, and this runs through a bit. It will be an important theme. The country can't build. No housing permits can be issued, not in the city and not in the countryside. That's a problem. With your plea, you will maintain that. There won't be any way to build it. The choice that lies ahead is the following: do we choose directors who are able, who take responsibility and have the courage to say "boys, this is a difficult plan, but we're going to do it together" or do we choose politicians, like you, who shout all kinds of things from the sidelines, which de facto keeps everything locked up that nobody has anything to do with? That's the choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u131	The key problem is that it is locked because the standards are too tight. You do not see that in any other country in Europe, not in France, nor in Germany. These are not countries that are destroying nature, they are serious countries. I believe that we should look at this and review our legislation and review possible improvements. You accept the limit value that the Netherlands uses as a kind of divine decree that we have to comply with. We need to adapt to that rather than adjust that limit. You cannot devalue a country by setting standards that cannot be met. You don't want to see that. You just say that it stands and must stand; you must not touch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr Eppink is now suggesting that the country is being shut down because we are not actually allowing any more nitrogen emissions. The reason for this is that our nature is exceptionally bad. After Malta, our nature is one of the worst in Europe. Ten years ago, the entire nature policy was reduced to the minimum, which means that all buffers have disappeared around nature reserves, making nature very vulnerable and sometimes very small. That's why you have to say now: there's nothing left. We owe that to ourselves. If it's up to politicians like you, we'll keep it up for a while. That's not what D66 stands for. Now let's make the choice, the shoulders under it, and just solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u133	There have been developments, as I mentioned earlier. In the last 30 years nitrogen emissions have been greatly reduced. That's a development. The number of farmers is falling because they cannot find a successor. That's a development. The innovation of the farm continues. The livestock is decreasing in numbers. Let us take a little more time to reach those targets instead of putting the knife on the throat of farmers and builders. We're in the process of introducing some sort of planned economy. That's why GroenLinks is very much in favour of it. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Campen, VVD, for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u135	Oh, sorry. I thought Mr Van Campen had a question. We went to the same high school in Doetinchem. Mr Van Meijeren has been there too, but I think he has missed some lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u136	At least the most important, because they will be coming in the next six minutes. Mr. Chairman. The plans of the cabinet we are talking about today have been bombed. That is because these letters show that we are not just coming out of the nitrogen crisis, but above all because people see a map that seems to decide on the future of their farm, livestock and land. We can still debate so many times here about nature under pressure, about advice from advisory committees, scientists who doubt or advise on the technique under the hood of complex nitrogen calculations, but the discussions will only really live when people see what this means to them personally. Mr. Chairman. The targets set are not in question for the VVD. Judicial verdict after judgment shows that we must now really keep the promise of years ago. It will have to be demonstrated that nitrogen emissions will have to be reduced in order to secure the thousands of farmers who work without a permit, to restore nature to the condition that future generations can also enjoy it, to build houses, to build roads and to work on cleaner energy and industry. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, there has been unnecessary unrest about the included card, for example because farmers in the map only read the task for ammonia in livestock farming. The VVD doesn't think that's fair. We don't think that's fair. Can Minister Van der Wal confirm that we need to see this map as an indicative starting point, which only serves as a starting point to enable provinces to define their tailor-made approach in areas and that the other important sources, industry, traffic and foreign nitrogen, are also involved? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u137	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u138	All very good questions to the Minister. The question, of course, is: what does the VVD Group itself think? For example, the Chamber also has to decide whether Lelystad will be opened. That is a big point in many of the farmers who are worried about it, who do not think it is right. Do you agree that Lelystad shouldn't open?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u139	As far as the VVD is concerned: equal monks, equal hoods. Lelystad Airport is currently not licensed. It's an airport that's not in operation either. Until recently, I was of the opinion that it was a PAS detector, one of those PAS detectors we talk about a lot. The Minister considered that the airport did not fulfil those conditions. As far as I am concerned, she shows that she stands for the principle of "equal monks, equal hoods." Connect at the back of the line to obtain a permit that should apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u140	That's good. In any case, it has been postponed until the end of time. But the farmers are asking for one more step. They say: wait a minute, my farm will be smaller, I may be bought out and there is still a chance that this airport will open; put a line through it, because aviation needs to shrink. That's the extra step that's being asked. It also calls for political courage. That is why I do not specifically ask them to be in line at the end of the line, but simply not to open it. Can we send out a clear signal today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u141	I believe that all sectors should make their contribution. We know that livestock farming has a huge impact and that there is a great deal of ammonia coming from it and can also make a major contribution to solving this problem. But we will have to look at how this is in balance with the environment in these areas. Air transport will also have to contribute to this. However, I note that Lelystad is currently an airport that is not in operation, does not issue, is not authorised at the moment. I therefore believe that this discussion is not yet under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u142	Last question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u143	I think so. I understand very well that you are trying to push it forward and try to put it into the licensing technique. But he's just hanging over the market. It's hanging over the market. Other spokesmen from your group say that Lelystad might still be an option if it is very busy at Schiphol Airport. I heard that from your group not so long ago. It is therefore relevant to know for farmers who face enormous consequences whether we decide not to open this airport. Fair politics means being honest with farmers and saying to them: sorry, you can't go on with your business as you know it now. But it also means being honest about other sectors. In this case, that's Lelystad. It will also be about all kinds of industry. That's a little more complicated than that. But this point, Lelystad, is quite simple, but it is politically complicated for the VVD. I understand that, but it would be so fair to just say today: we're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u144	I use the starting point, as I said: equal monks, equal hoods. Then as far as I'm concerned, it shouldn't matter if you're an airport or a dairy farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u145	Not only has a bomb been bombed into society, but also into the VVD itself. 51% of the members rebelled. A lot of members walk away and voters run away. I was here in this room when D66 blundered the amuse before you. That was, among other things, the reduction in speed, but we are now bullying away and expropriating farmers. How far can D66 go within the VVD with this kind of policy? When do you stand your back and say, "I don't want this anymore. I say no to Mr De Groot."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr Mulder referred to a motion adopted at the Congress of the VVD, with 51% of the members arguing for a policy of nitrogen that is careful. I have been given a number of directions in this regard as a task for my Members, which I will also draw attention to today. Depending on the response of the cabinet, I will make proposals in the form of motions. One of the most important principles was: stop constantly starting that discussion about expropriation, targeted buy-back, all those harsh terms that affect entrepreneurs directly, that affect entrepreneurs directly into their business. See if you can come up with other solutions to reduce nitrogen, for example with innovation and conversion of the company. That is an appeal from my fellow Members, which does not say at all that there would be no nitrogen problem. All they're saying is, solve it carefully. That's what I'm gonna propose today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u147	The expropriation was invented by the VVD, among others. I was in all kinds of discussions with Mrs Schouten, the minister's predecessor, who had her official figure out how to expropriate farmers as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible. And now these elaborate plans are being used to put pressure on them. So it is true that the VVD supports that policy. And you just admitted it here again: "The goals are not in question; it must be done." So you keep bowing. You bend for D66 here in the Netherlands and bend for Timmermans in Brussels. You're very good at bending, but when are you gonna keep your back straight?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u148	I'm just bowing for the voter. I note that today I come up with solutions that help us to say: 'Guys, stop with the big words and the texts on expropriation. That's what makes people restless." Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to clarify those targets after all. After all, a lot of people think that I understand that very well when we talk about those goals: they are about those percentages in that card. And I'm just critical of that today. As far as I am concerned, these targets are about halving nitrogen emissions by 2030, but how these targets are to be achieved and achieved is the question. I find it incredibly important that we give provinces the opportunity to find solutions in those areas. That is what I am going to argue for today, because the best solutions can be found there. After all, these provinces know best who they sit at the table with and in which areas they sit at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u149	The VVD is talking about it. Many times have been asked to record that farmers would never, ever be bought out and expropriated. The VVD members didn't want to agree to that, so it's just that they want to. Now it is said again; they continue to bow before D66. Once again, your Members are running away, your constituents are running away and the whole party is in a rush. You hear and have seen from D66 that they love to sprinkle kilos of salt in the wounds. If it's up to them, there'll be more. When will it be enough for you? When will you stand up, not only for your members, but also for the farmers in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u150	When I listen to our Members, and to our State Members, the people who are going to have to weigh up in those areas, I think we should stand there and I hear people say: we want to contribute to solving the nitrogen crisis. They say they can and they have the solution. But they also say: do not impose dictatorship on us from The Hague to seek those solutions. I have listened to this and I am going to make proposals for it today in the follow-up to my speech. So perhaps Mr Mulder and I will get closer to each other in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u151	We'll get closer if we help the farmers. Of course, that whole story about state members and delegates is bullshit. We're both from Overijssel. We know the politics there exactly. That's where they shouldn't have any of those plans. It is precisely there that they will do everything in their power to stop this bad policy. Mr Van Campen knows that like no other. It would please him if he would just admit that in a lot of provinces the members and directors of his party are not going to implement this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u152	It is nice that Mr Mulder has just mentioned our own province of Overijssel. It is precisely here that people are known to seek solutions in the areas. It is not the case that the provinces will not be responsible for nature policy until next year or in 2023. They have been since 2013 or 2014. Also under the PAS, the programme that ran from 2015 to 2019, there is really something happening in the provinces. Mr Mulder will never hear me say nothing happened. I hear from our administrators and from our statesmen in that province that they've really been working on that. However, it has not been enough. The concern lies with the space and the freedom to seek solutions as a province in those areas. Mr Mulder mentioned Overijssel. I can tell Mr Mulder that the province of Overijssel has never had to use the expropriation instrument, because in those areas together it is seeking solutions that farmers can agree to. For me, that is the essence of the area-based approach that we should be facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman, SP, then Mr Thijssen and then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u154	We have said it many times today: there is a letter of perspective in which there is actually very little or no perspective. Mr Van Campen said it at Op1 as well: you will only be a farmer for whom an 80% reduction applies on such a map. And then what? He does have a loan at the bank. I would like to ask Mr Van Campen how he himself would answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u155	It is a little faint, because I will come back to this later in my speech, but I am going to answer it. I'm in the country a lot. Yesterday I would have liked to go to the protest too, but since I became a spokesperson for agriculture, I have been trying to make company visits especially in the days when we do not need to be here. When I talk to farmers, I hear a lot about the narrow margins that farmers have to work with and about that small earning capacity. In fact, only intensification in production leads to a better income. The demand of society, of society, of you and me and of consumers is growing. The demands and standards are only getting higher. In the food chain from farmer to supermarket and to yours and my plate there are a lot of parties that all take a piece of the price we pay in the supermarket. I believe that we should make proposals for the farmer's ability to earn, so that the price we pay in the supermarket ends up in the farmer's yard in a fair manner, because that is where the hardest work is being done for the products we enjoy so much every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u156	I can partly agree with that. Mr. Van Campen, those are the capitalism and profit maximization that your party so welcomes. Everyone takes a piece of cake, but the farmer has gotten into a lot of trouble. I would like to ask Mr Van Campen what the solutions are. We have mentioned a number of concrete solutions. Make sure the banks, the Rabobank in the lead, are going to pay as co-causers. You yourself say at Op1 that the farmer is almost trapped by the loans. Mr Van Campen rightly says that the money should end up in rural areas. This is about a lot more than just fragmentation of the soil. It is also about the deterioration of the countryside. Does Mr Van Campen and the SP believe that this is an important part of the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u157	As a liberal, I stand for a free market. I would add that a free market can only function with a good, strict market master. That is what is lacking in many areas at the moment. I'm talking to Mrs. Beckerman about the banks. I'm talking to Mrs Beckerman about retail and supermarkets. Hence, real contributions will have to be made to improving farmers' earning capacity for a fair distribution in the chain. I was just about to start in my plea towards Minister Staghouwer, because that is essential, also in order to gain support in the agricultural sector and also to offer a fair perspective to farmers. We've been talking about young farmers before. Mr Bishop spoke of them. That is essential to ensure that young farmers are still really excited to get into that beautiful profession and to maintain that thriving agricultural economy that the Netherlands is so famous for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u158	I am talking about the banks, says Mr Van Campen. They have to make a contribution. So very simple: does the VVD think that the banks are a co-cause of this problem and should therefore also contribute financially to the solution, so that public money, that huge fund, does not end up in the head office of a bank instead of where it belongs, in the countryside?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u159	I think Mrs Beckerman refers to the NRC article that we read more than a week ago. In it we could read that farmers who are considering stopping because they have no successor might be able to give space to farmers who do want to stay in that environment. But we see stories about stopper arrangements and that that euro will be on the bank's account within five minutes. This is also a sector in which the intensification of this sector has been making a great deal of money for decades. I'm not saying we should bash the banks right away. Banks also have customers, and so are we all. Of course, they also have to ensure that the money is spent properly. But I really want to hear the Minister's creative thinking on the point that a contribution is being made to the much more moving towards a high-quality economy rather than to quantitative bulk production. He has the space to finally come up with legislation. I don't like legislation very much, so if you don't have to, I'd love to. But we have to be serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u160	I have a follow-up question with regard to the very valid points made by the SP. How much does Rabobank have to pay for the 25 billion that is now being released?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u161	This is a question that Mr Thijssen raises every debate. I also give the same answer when I answer every debate. That 25 billion is going to be a fund. There is also a law under which we are going to have a debate here in the Chamber. That money must be spent in a fair and fair manner. This is a public investment, with money from all of us that needs to be spent properly and that should contribute to the sustainability of agriculture and a better balance between agriculture, economy and nature. I am going to ask the Minister how he sees the contribution of the banks. Mr De Groot has already indicated that he has legislation for this if necessary, in the extreme case, but let us first hear what the Minister has to say about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u162	Well, that's too bad. You could have just said 10 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u164	The major parties that have made money on this agricultural model will then have to put 10 billion into that fund. I have another question for Mr Van Campen. That is whether he thinks that sufficient measurements are being made at the moment and that these measurements are being used sufficiently in the calculation models to intervene now in the agricultural system and to halve nitrogen pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u165	I don't think I heard a question. Or did I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u166	You have just mentioned the goals set by the government and that you are behind them. I just want to make sure I heard the VVD right. Does the VVD consider that sufficient measurements are now being carried out in the Netherlands and that these measurements are sufficiently used in the calculation models to intervene in the agricultural system and to halve nitrogen pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u167	There are a lot of assumptions in this sense. I would like to say that we know enough about the state of nature and about the precipitation of nitrogen in areas to work with each other to ensure that the country goes off the grid, that we can offer farmers a perspective again and that nature is in a good condition. Further on, however, in my speech, I still have a few words to say about this in the direction of the Minister. I think I'm going to please Mr Thijssen with that. Perhaps he would like to give me the opportunity to say those words first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u168	Okay, I'll wait for that. This was the VVD motion your members adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u169	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u170	That's why I thought there can't be a lot of confusion about that, can there? Then I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u171	I already recognized the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u172	You recognized her, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u173	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u174	Well, then it's too bad I don't get an answer. But I'll wait for the rest of your speech. Otherwise, I'll come back to it. Then I have another question. What if all this works? Suppose there's nitrogen space and we can issue permits again and do other things in this country. I have just said that the Labour Party thinks that we should spend it widely on social housing, the PAS detectors and the energy transition. Does the VVD agree? Or does the VVD actually think we should drive another 130?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u175	I think that Mr Thijssen is always a great example of the interlinking of all the policy discussions that are being held in this Chamber. I congratulate him on that. I believe that in the debate on nitrogen policy we have to listen to the need to be able to build again, because the landmark is very large and people are waiting for an affordable home. However, as an agricultural and nitrogen spokesperson, I would very much like to start by talking about those 3,600 PAS detectors, about those people on those farms that are without fault and are currently unable to move. As far as I am concerned, they are given the absolute priority of obtaining security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u176	Those 3,600 PAS detectors also include the 3,600 non-reporters, let me just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u177	Sure. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u178	They are in the same "unrighteous" situation. My question refers to Mr Thijssen's last question. There are, of course, a lot of candidates for the use of the nitrogen space that has been created. We've got those PAS detectors and related companies. We've got the housing. We do have the traffic, too. We have nature. In what order does Mr Van Campen see the exploitation of this space before him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u179	If I have heard correctly how gloomy Mr Bishop is about the cabinet's proposals, I think we will never get to that issue. But maybe I misunderstood him. I think that we should first discuss with each other how we are going to make a contribution to this necessary reduction in nitrogen emissions and to the restoration of natural areas in proportion to all sectors. As for the discussion about how to use the space that has been released, I would like to be careful to press all kinds of stickers and stickers with so many numbers behind the comma, because this requires care. I would just like to say, however, that I think Mr Bishop is referring here to the fact that this should not lead to a complete industrialisation of the rural area and rural areas. We must cherish this countryside, we must protect it, and it belongs to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u180	Mr Bishop asks his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr President, I am trying to process this battle; this is my final question. I'd like to continue with this. Yes, indeed, I am following the optimistic thinking line of the VVD for a moment. I mean, I try to empathize with a colleague who has to deal with all kinds of questions. What order will these candidates take? I don't need to hear it behind the comma, but I do need to hear it globally. I ask that because I now see a lot of moving to nature in the pieces. That means that this will be at the expense of the PAS detectors that Mr Van Campen has rightly noted high. And there's also a lot of housing going on and you name all the other activities. What order does Mr Van Campen see in front of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u182	Ideally, I think you would like it to run the same way, so you can make a big move in those provinces, with those provinces, where there will be room for the restoration of nature, but at the same time there will also be room for those PAS detectors, for the construction of roads and for housing in those areas. But I also say quite honestly: the challenges in Gelderland are very different from those in Noord-Holland. I've been in the city council myself for a long time. I always enjoyed getting some form of policy freedom there, so that a municipality can decide for itself what the city should look like in so many years' time. So let us not commit ourselves to this too much, because I think that too: that customization and that need will really have to be sought in those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u183	One of my concerns is next. This package already raises a great deal of resistance. I get that. And I think the VVD has a duty to explain to people why this is necessary. I see that the Minister and the spokesperson are doing so. But then there really is more to it than it is now. One of my concerns is that the resistance will be used for the thesis: we cannot go beyond this. And my other concern is to move forward to the provinces. Because it's quite a bit of a deal, I'm very curious if the VVD is already arming itself against it and is willing to make a commitment if the provinces are not sufficiently prepared to implement those plans and it comes to an administrative clash between the cabinet and the provinces. That's very intense. But we're not going to see the VVD hide behind that and say: it's a government thing and it's really hard to intervene in that? What can we see from the VVD that will ensure that the policy is implemented in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u184	If I were to answer that question, I would assume that I have thought about a scenario in which provinces would not or would not cooperate. Right now, I don't want to do that. I see that provinces, delegates, statesmen and political groups are eager to take part in the search for good solutions in order to achieve this reduction in nitrogen and relaxation of the countryside. So I'm not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u185	One final question for Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u186	This is a very fundamental point. The Animal Party, with all that it had in it, opposed two seats at the time, so we didn't win it, so we didn't oppose that decentralisation of nature policy. We also asked: but how does that work? Think of the Peel. That's one nature reserve. Brabant's going over, Limburg's going over. What if Limburg doesn't cooperate? What do you do? So we're gonna sign off on Limburg? Doesn't that belong to the Netherlands anymore? That's gonna be intense, isn't it? I see that provinces are still issuing permits at the moment, in the midst of the nitrogen crisis! Luckily, they're being flogged back by the judge, but it doesn't offer much trust, does it? The Minister has said: if necessary, I will intervene. But we can see the next thing that's my concern, all of them coming. We know it's all going to be very sensitive. That's not something you're gonna go about. I think it is a good thing that the VVD is committed to this, but it would be even better if the VVD now says: let's take control on a rich level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u187	We are going to establish a fund with each other, in which real investment can be made on the basis of indicative presentations, i.e. without hard divisions between all kinds of expenditure. The point is that we can invest in the quality of the rural area, of the countryside. That's what we're talking about. The point is that we can offer farmers farms where farmers may not have a successor a fair settlement, so that other farmers in those areas, if they so request, can be more natural farmers. We need to be able to help provinces with that. But those provinces are also saying at the moment: these arrangements are not yet in place, so we must first see which frameworks the Empire and the Chamber lay down with us. Hence my plea to offer as much space and freedom as possible for how you are going to achieve those goals in the provinces. That is why I am critical of that card, which contains those hard percentages. One farmer then has a very big task, while the neighbour has a much less big task. When you look at that card, you can see that sometimes those differences even cross the same field. That is why, in the direction of the cabinet, I advocate giving space to the search for the right steps both within and between the provinces. We should not want to be too strict on that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u188	A final question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u189	I haven't been to a congress or festival of the VVD in a couple of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u190	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u191	I'm very sorry about that, too. Maybe I can come back as a party watcher.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u192	Always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u193	Then I'd like to get an invitation to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u194	Thank you, Mr Van Haga, for the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u195	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u196	In this case!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u197	In this case!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u198	Okay, next time we go together! I'd love to come. The last conference was extremely interesting, because a heavyweight, Delft engineer, farmer and VVD member Mirjam Nelisse cracked a number of critical notes there. I'd like to tell Mr Van Campen. First of all, she said that the AERIUS model was not properly modeled. Secondly, she said it's being used wrongly. Thirdly, she said that the critical deposition values, the KDWs, are not critical. Finally, she said that Wob documents showed that the Hordijk Committee was missing information. Mr Van Campen then responded by saying: it is good that we are a debate party. However, I would like to know from Mr Van Campen which of these substantive points Mirjam Nelisse is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u199	I've read the motion in a different way. I have to relate to that, because it was accepted at my conference. I also said at that conference that I would question the cabinet on the vast majority of the '95' there was mention, say 99% of the scope of that motion. That is what Mr Van Haga will hear in my contribution. I am also considering tabling motions on this subject. Then it's all about the following: stop talking about expropriating beautiful companies and start looking at other solutions, such as innovations. I always say: innovations that are legally sustainable. Because that discussion was held here, and I think it is right. Because if you do not make legally sustainable proposals available, then that will end up bothering the farmer if those systems die in court. We see this in the 28 cases in Overijssel, for example. So that motion offers alternatives: give us these tightenings, and now look critically at a realistic nitrogen policy, even when it comes to, for example, those nature goals. There are a lot of discussions about whether nature is in good condition or in bad condition. I think that we should have people who really know how to make a judgment on this. That is why we are calling for this ecological authority. We ask the cabinet to set it up: when will it be, when will we be able to see it? Because then there will be an independent assessment of the state of nature and whether the measures we are taking are feasible. So that motion is a bull's-eye. I am working on that, and Mr Van Haga will hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u200	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u201	Minister Staghouwer's perspective letter contains 49 pages of roaring principles that should outline the future vision of the agricultural sector. Only, despite the many words, the VVD lacks nails with heads. We do not read what choices the cabinet makes to ensure that the cost of making agriculture more sustainable does not just fall on the farmer. The most popular bank among farmers in the last week complained, unjustly, that the government's focus would be too one-sided on livestock shrinkage. That is a claim which the bank knows will affect farmers in the heart and create unnecessary unrest, because this coalition has the political agreement that the shrinkage of livestock will never be an end in itself. How is Minister Staghouwer going to ensure that these banks not only encourage intensification and quantity, but above all intensification and quality? How is he going to avoid speculation with agricultural land by real estate guys who prey on farmers without successors who are considering stopping? And how will he then prevent the last euro they receive from being transferred to the bank's account? I have already debated this with Mrs Beckerman. Mr. Chairman. Not only from the banks, but also from the supermarkets we hear bombastic words. "Radial and violent, I've never seen this before" we heard last week. Does Minister Staghouwer agree with the VVD that the key to a fair income model for farmers lies in the supermarkets? We lack a vision and an approach to those questions that are essential to give farmers with wider margins the opportunity to offer their businesses with innovative concepts perspective. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I was talking to Mr Van Haga about this: a week and a half ago, the VVD constituency called on my group to carefully pursue nitrogen policy and to focus on more nitrogen emission measurements at company level. That's right. For farmers, this depends very much on it. What opportunities does Minister Van der Wal see in the further refinement of the measurement network? And does she agree with the VVD that we should move far more towards a nationwide network in which nitrogen emissions can be measured very locally? What opportunities does the Minister see to remove existing uncertainties in the measurements, models and calculations, I ask her. In nitrogen policy we also want to assess the actual state of nature, not only staring at nitrogen, but also looking at other factors that affect the state of nature, such as management and water. When will the cabinet finally start working on this proposed ecological authority? We have made agreements in the Birds and Habitats Directives that we must comply with. Can Minister Van der Wal promise that the reference date will always be the starting point for the management plans with the additional environmental values to be set by provinces? Too often we hear examples where nature organisations add species and habitats even after the reference date. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I will immediately confess that when I became a spokesperson for agriculture, nature and nitrogen, I could not immediately point out the consequences of years too much acidification in vulnerable natural areas. I am holding back for a moment, because I see Mr Thijssen coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u202	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u203	Mr. Chairman. "Why is nature in a bad state? The grass is green and the garden is in bloom." To be honest, I recognize that, too. But still, when you know, when you look at it, you can see that nature is really under pressure in certain areas. However, the cabinet sees that the task it stands for is in stark contrast to the lack of urgency that many people feel about this approach. The VVD really thinks that the cabinet should focus more on explaining why it is important that we solve the nitrogen problem. That's not just because Brussels has to do it, and not because judges are calling on us, but because we want to live in a country where we can pass on fantastic nature to future generations and at the same time, in balance, produce the best and safest food in the world. I'd like a response. Mr President, I will conclude. It is time to get to work, take responsibility and resolve this crisis. Unfortunately, these solutions often place too much emphasis on the hard instruments, on buy-out, expropriation and livestock shrinkage. The VVD once again expresses the importance of customisation. Think of legally proven innovations to reduce ammonia, extend it by earning the same or preferably more with fewer cattle and other tasks, move when you are close to a taxed nature reserve and want to go through farmers on the same foot, or a fair price to stop if there is no successor for the company. The VVD would like to hear confirmation that all these possibilities are available for the provinces. Mr. Chairman. A solution must be found for everyone in this nitrogen crisis, because every natural area, every company and every entrepreneur requires and deserves a different approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Thijssen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u205	To increase this urgency, the VVD may be able to talk more often about how important nature conservation is and talk less about "vroomvroom." But my question is about the targets. I hear the VVD now saying that she would like the Minister to find out if there should be no more measurement. But doesn't that actually mean that this is a delay tactic? Or is Mr Van Campen insisting that these area-oriented processes are now in operation, that they are coming up with plans and that work is now being done to halve that nitrogen pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u206	I think we know enough to get started, but I also think that the map that we have received and which undoubtedly has a lot more maps to follow is a very crude approach to an approach that needs to be much more sophisticated in those areas. It is measured; the models are based on measurements, but I also think it is very logical that very locally, in areas that are now given very high values on that map and which I actually hear in practice that nature is in a good state, a farmer or a province wants to know what the actual nitrogen emissions or deposition is there. There are very nice examples in the country of how that can be done. I am also going to table a motion on this, but I think it is important to have it done jointly and simultaneously, because it will refine that approach in those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr Thijssen. No, that was enough. Then I would like to thank Mr Van Campen for his contribution and listen to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union. Sorry, Mr. Ommzigt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u208	I thought, "Something's gonna happen." Because I've heard some things about the VVD motion as a question, but the VVD motion adopted at the VVD Congress is pretty clear. It states that it is necessary to identify the actual unfeasible nature targets and then, supported by research and measurements, use them for adaptation. According to the VVD, is there any unachievable nature goals and are they being adapted? Or is the VVD, as I seemed to hear at the beginning, fully behind the targets and we are only talking about the need to adjust it a little bit to the left or right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u209	I just had an interrupting debate with Mrs van der Plas about those species and that habitat in those natural areas. There are well-founded scientific reports that say that in principle everything that is appropriate is feasible. But I do not think that we should be staring blindly at that either. If it is true that things are not feasible in these areas, I think that an ecological authority, as it is written down in the coalition agreement, is not something that we ourselves have invented; that is an opinion from the Planning Office for the Environment, which could give other advice locally. As far as I am concerned, this is also area-oriented customization. So we should not look too stoic at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u210	The VVD therefore assumes that for the time being all the goals that have been identified are feasible and that this part of the motion could only be seen once in a year or two, because at this moment everything just seems feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u211	For example, I asked the Minister what we then have to do. If I understand correctly, that is the European Birds and Habitats Directive, with species and habitats identified in sites at the time of the reference date. Hence my question to the Minister whether she can confirm that we have to stick to the species and habitats that were designated and declared at the time of the reference date. That's what we have to stick to. If then it turns out that this is different and that this looks different in those areas, I often hear those discussions from members of state, people in the country, organisations and farmers, who say: that is not true in the management plans that have been adopted by the province at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u212	I am a little surprised, because we now hear that all nature goals are feasible. That's very nice, but that's exactly the opposite of what the VVD Congress said. That VVD congress is of course not taken very seriously in this way. There is great fear among some of the people in the countryside. You're all from the Achterhoek. That's just all light blue. So that's -12%. I live in Twente. There are areas with -70%. I don't know how they're gonna do that. Really, I don't know. Now we hear the VVD say that this is fully feasible. A colleague was just talking about "cross-border" and wanted to separate Limburg. Well, there's a Natura 2000 site in Enschede. That's cross-border. At Aamsveen there is nothing on the Dutch side and on the German side there is no problem. We know on which side of the border the underground oil store broke down in the Aamsveen, causing a major oil spill. That's on the German side, where there's no problem. On the Dutch side there is a problem. That's the kind of thing we have to explain on a daily basis. Right on the German side you can build. So these farmers can look at the other side of the border and say, "Look, that's where my dear German colleague lives. It can make a stable twice as big. There's nothing to worry about. And his stable never leads to nitrogen on the Dutch side, but I have to halve my nitrogen, because I can't do anything with that." That's what you think is feasible, what shouldn't be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u213	I would actually like to ask the question back. Does Mr Omtzig actually say that, because the Germans do not comply with the law, we should not do so in the Netherlands either?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u214	The Germans have a different law. They have a nitrogen standard that is much higher. As with the differences at the pump at the border, this hurts a lot, because that means that there are two totally different regimes in place. As a result, things that are completely prohibited on the Dutch side of the border can be totally prohibited on the German side of the border. In the Achterhoek that's still a bit of a problem, because you're not on that 12%. But in Dinkelland you are dealing with five Natura 2000 sites, one of which is a 40-hectare stamp with a large circle around it. There's nothing there. How are you going to explain that to the people who live there? Do you think these are attainable natural goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u215	I believe that all Member States have to abide by the agreements which the Netherlands also adheres to. We know that discussions are also currently taking place between the German Länder, the German Government and the European Commission on the nitrogen standard. And it seems that the Germans too will have to relate to the situation we have in the Netherlands when it comes to the problem of nitrogen. I agree with Mr Omtzigt when he says that differences between one side and the other side of the border simply cannot. You can't explain that to people. But I'm just saying that I see the situation of Twente as well. I also know the situation he is describing, and I think that is a very worrying situation when I see the map. I would like to repeat my plea once again. I know there are examples in Twente. I know there's an approach in Twente Mineral Valley. You may know it. That is where the agricultural sector, with all kinds of innovative proposals for manure processing, really ensures that there is ammonia reduction. Then I would really like to suggest to Mr Omtzigt that we give those provinces the space and opportunity to achieve the task we are facing and the goals we are setting together. In this way, we can ensure that local customisation can also be offered in Twente and that these goals can be achieved there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u216	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u217	Of course I want it to be done by the province and, of course, I want it to be feasible. I would just point out that if you agree that a large circle is drawn around each Natura 2000 area, the Netherlands has 130 or 140 Natura 2000 sites, while North Rhine-Westphalia has three or five. And North Rhine-Westphalia has about the same dimensions as the Netherlands. It also has the same number of inhabitants and is therefore fairly similar. I am not saying it to be annoying to the people who live around the Veluwe, because there is a big problem there too, but if we had only the Veluwe, the Wadden region and the Biesbosch, then we would not have had that whole discussion. We're having this discussion because we've identified a little bit everywhere. And with all the measures proposed by the VVD here, the border between the Netherlands and Germany has not disappeared. In fact, that border has become a wall, a nitrogen wall, where farmers on the one hand can do nothing and on the other hand can do a lot. Farmers will therefore move from one side to the other side of the border. That doesn't make nature any better, but it's gonna look great on paper. I'm gonna hold on to the VVD saying that there should be no difference on one side and on the other side of the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u218	I think that should be the starting point. I really do. When we talk about nitrogen, we are actually talking about nature obligations, which we should have been working on 15 or 20 years ago. I believe that this also applies: equal monks, equal hoods. I believe that all Member States have to abide by these agreements. I also share Mr Omtzig's description of all these numbers of Natura 2000 sites. However, I think it is fair to say here that we cannot change things overnight, as Mrs van der Plas advocates and as I would like to agree with her. I would also like to ask the Minister: what are you doing with an entrepreneur with a beautiful nature including farmhouse located next to or in such a Natura 2000 area? Other colleagues have already asked that. Surely it would be a shame if you had to say to it because of a ticket or a percentage: "it is a pity; it does not fit in with our Hague plans and The Hague drawing table ideas"? That is why I am in favour of making these considerations locally, so that provinces can make a local assessment of what is appropriate and what is in balance between economy and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you, Mr. Van Campen. I now give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u220	Mr. Chairman. Next to our farm was the nature reserve De Kleistee. I loved playing there. The farm and nature belonged of course, until one of our fields with fertile sandy soil, where my grandfather already grew potatoes and shallots, situated between the outside dunes and the Middle Dunes, was expropriated, expropriated for nature. Then nature became an enemy, and of course the high lords in The Hague, somewhere far away from our village, who decided for a moment what was good for us. It took me a long time to respect this decision and appreciate this nature. Mr. Chairman. I can imagine the desperation if the ladies and gentlemen in The Hague just sign on a card that the nitrogen deposition in the area where your farm is located should be reduced by 47%, 58%, 70% or perhaps even 95%. Your life's work is at stake. Often not just your life's work, but the work of many generations. If that is then called into question, certainly in such a way, it hurts, touches your existence, the core of your existence. Especially when all the balls are directed towards the agricultural sector and the measures for industry, traffic and aviation are pushed forward, or actually backwards. Nitrogen, water, air quality and climate change are the problem of and for all of us, not only of the food producer, but also of industry, traffic and aviation, and certainly also of us as consumers. That is why I would like to say first and foremost: yes, we have a huge task ahead of us. We've been over our ecological boundaries for too long. Too long have Cabinets looked away and the problems kicked out. But now that we're going to deal with them, it has to be just and proportionate. We're gonna do that together, with respect for families, communities, and yes, the whole country. Farmers who stop, guide and pay well. The keepers we offer real perspective. However, the question to both directors after both letters is: are we really going to do that, and how? One letter is quite short, perhaps too short, and the other is very long, with real encouragement to a perspective and with many brackets for young farmers and a fair price for the farmer, but it must of course become more concrete and actually happen. That must be top priority right now. How is the Minister really going to help realise that quick word "perspective"? Mr. Chairman. Move on quickly about that manned card, which indeed has an impact on bank lending. That's what came along. Why are there such reduction targets in areas with hardly any livestock farming? Vlieland: 70%, 90%, 95% reduction, no farmer to be found. Schiermonnikoog: recently natural-inclusive livestock farming avant la lettre by seven dairy farmers who have disposed of one third of their cows. That's what we want, isn't it? But on the map is 70% and 95%, and nowhere is a manual that we want to spare these farmers. Schouwen-Duiveland, Goeree-Overflakkee, Voorne-Putten and where not already: thick green areas to see Natura 2000 sites, or 70% and 95% reduction, and hardly livestock farms. That one farmer, De Hoop, on the Head of Schouwen? It's exactly as extensive and natural as you want it to be. Mr. Chairman. Why? Why did the Minister have that signed in by the RIVM? Why go around Natura 2000 sites in 11 provinces of those over 70%, but not in Gelderland again? Especially in these Natura 2000 areas, in the transition areas close to them, there are extremely often extensive livestock farmers, nature including grazing birds and/or organic farming. Soon they will be the child of the account and Minister Staghouwer will be able to put his beautiful plans for more organic farming in the refrigerator in advance. How exactly am I supposed to see that? I'd like both reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u221	Thank you. First of all, there is an interruption by the PVV, Mr Edgar Mulder. Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u222	A little messing about a card and meanwhile words like "respect" and "together with the farmers." We had Mr Segers' statements on civil war earlier this week. But if that 50% doesn't leave the table, then nothing changes at all. Then this is a bit of a play. Because the Christian Union has the opportunity to stop it here today. If the Christian Union says no, then this policy will stop and the farmers will be saved. So what is it now? Is it just a little play and some big words, or are you really going to help the farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u223	The Christian Union stands for a liveable countryside, stands for a farm and farming communities with perspective, and stands for a nature that we handle well, for water quality that we take good care of, for climate where we tackle climate change, as far as we can. I find it extraordinary that Mr Mulder should be standing here, knowing that this was precisely the period when the PVV contributed to the administration of the country. Although, you can't really call it a contribution. In the period 2010-2012 there was a look away. That's when the ball was kicked out irresponsiblely. In 2011, the opinion was on Henk Bleker's desk. That's been wiped off the table. That is why we now need to intervene more quickly and more quickly. Biodiversity is not doing well. The state of the bugs isn't doing very well. Our water quality isn't doing very well. We need to intervene now. The goal is, but the question is, how are we going to do that with each other? It is clear that we do not sign it from above with a drawing table. That is why the Christian Union is in favour of allowing the provinces to work out and resolve this together with farmers and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u224	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u225	A lot of words and distractions, but it was a very clear question: do you stand up for the farmers today? You can do that, you have that power. You're in the coalition. If you say 'no', then the policy stops and the farmers can go back to farming. I don't hear an answer. If I don't get that, I want to tell the rest of the Netherlands, to the farmers that they're being abandoned here and that it's a play. What is it? Are you helping the farmers today, or are you just gonna mess around a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u226	This is a well-known but also rather flat interruption. You can now see that the prices of grain are rising tremendously. The reason for this is not as good. You can see that farmers who could still trade, adjust their cultivation plan, sow more grain and sow less intensively other crops. Grain was always just some kind of stuffing. You grew grain because of the crop rotation. Now you can make a living with that one at a time. That is what is happening in dairy farming. Suppose I run into a farmer and I ask: if you can make a good, perhaps better, sandwich with 100 cows instead of the 150 you have now, and you also get a real compensation for repairing your wood-wall, do you choose, yes or no? Most farmers say yes. You know that, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mr... Excuse me, it's ma'am. Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u228	You're not gonna get to me with that. I would like to return to a previous point made by Mr Grinwis in the direction of the SGP. He said, "It says "2030," but the SGP knows the executive power of the government, doesn't it? I was touched by that, not by the year, but by the remark: you know the executive power of the government, don't you? Why was it hitting me? Because you're actually saying: we have to assume that the government can't do it at all. I think that's a hell of a statement. Are you saying the government can't do it at all? We ask a lot of people to do something in a very short time. Then we say here in the debate: well, don't take it so closely; the government doesn't have much implementing power. I think that is a very strange remark, especially since the letter of perspective really offers little perspective and is little concrete. I do not really believe that Mr Grinwis supports such a remark. Could he respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u229	Thank you for this question from Mrs Beckerman. What is happening here now is that Mrs Beckerman makes a small subtitle into a main sentence. In the interruption I went to Mr Bishop to make it clear that he and his party supported the entire nitrogen law that we now have, with exactly the same objectives, just as the SP did. That was my main message. This clause was meant to be more funny. I understand Mrs. Beckerman's offense at that, but it really was a subtlety. The main message is that the SGP, together with the SP, have made an important contribution to the current nitrogen legislation. They are an important pillar of current nitrogen legislation. In doing so, we are going to address the problems through the same objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u230	Socialists aren't really known for their humour either, so maybe I didn't take this as a joke; although Mrs.Arib is known for her humour. It's a bit because I've prepared this debate and don't find much room for jokes. That could be me. It could be the color of the party. You yourself are right to start with: many people have been touched in their hearts and they love their ground, but they also want solid ground under their feet. I get that emotion. We have supported that law and we cannot say: we have been bringing it forward for five years now, and then we will see. I'm really looking, all day long, for: how can we really offer perspective? Then I am going to make it very concrete, as I have done with others. Are you prepared, for example, to ask the co-causers, the banks and, specifically, the Rabobank for a contribution, so that we can ensure that this fund really gets where it is so necessary; in rural areas? We see that not only does the soil deteriorate, but our entire countryside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u231	On the first part of Mr Beckerman's speech, I say: yes, that is exactly why I started as I started, with how profound it can be, if the government knocks on your door and says: I want that ground of yours. That's incredibly profound, so I'm the last one to joke about it or lighthearted about it; really not. Then there is the second point. Yeah, that's what it's all about. That is, of course, an incredible challenge. For as long as I can think back and remember, it was about that worthless price the farmer got at our house. Then you went to the supermarket to buy a product and then it would've gone 10, 20 times over. It cannot be true that we are always turning everything back on the weakest party in the chain, namely the farmer, and that the farmer is finally sitting with the fried pears. Last week I was in Renswoude and talked to a lot of farmers. Then I heard that if it wants funding, the bank says it has to be sure. And what does such an entrepreneur do? It is actually forced to conclude a contract, in this case with the VanDrie Group. Well, keeping calves on contract is something other than free entrepreneurship. So I'm all in on it. That is why we are critical, for example, of international trade agreements, such as Mercosur, and that is why we also say that this contribution by other parties in the chain, including the banks, cannot remain non-binding. If it takes a levy from the banks to fill that nitrogen fund........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I will give the cabinet a chance to work out that non-binding contribution first, but this is where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u232	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u233	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back to the map. Why only agriculture, just livestock farming? Back to the islands of Zeeland and South Holland, which I know well. Is it true that as far as the nitrogen deposition of domestic make is concerned, it is mainly about ammonia and nitrogen oxide from Yara Sluiskil which are therefore breaking down there? Why are industrial sources such as Yara, the Amercentrale and Parenco and you name it, with such a big impact on nature, not on the map? And of course, provinces can supply these sources themselves, as Gelderland did with the Parenco paper mill, but it shouldn't have. The portee of this story is: do it integrally, do it together and do it righteously. Every sector in proportion to the same emission reduction; aviation, traffic, industry and yes, including agriculture, so that after ten years the livestock sector stops, and unfortunately even a small increase in ammonia emissions after 2010, will again be credible on the reduction path of 2010 and will restore nature. And why is the genericly completed 12 kilotons so low, whereas nitrogen professors with seniority up to and including the young people of the NajK indicate that there is more to be achieved there? Speaking of kilotons, last year the PBL said it took 30 kilotons. RIVM now says 39 kilotons. Erisman says we can do it at 23 to 25 kilotons. What's the deal with that? Is it ensured that other sectors are returning equally to their emissions? In summary. This map is based on policy choices with sometimes a major impact on communities, for example in the Gelderse Valley and around the Peel, but those choices, which are policy starting points, remain implicit. I'm asking the Minister to explain it. Speaking of justice, where is the concrete perspective for the PAS detectors? Mr President, a series of questions, because speaking time will soon be over. The task is great, for many in our countryside existential and by far transcends one cabinet period. Why doesn't the cabinet appoint a rural commissioner similar to the delta commissioner? I have talked about the non-binding contribution of banks and supermarkets so that farmers are no longer squeezed like a lemon. Has air quality been taken into account in the definition of reduction targets in the light of public health? What is the role of landscape land, for example in the transition areas? Farmers are not only food producers, but also landscape producers. They deserve a fair price for both. If the price and income are good, few people find it a disaster to earn their living with fewer animals. Only in this way can agriculture and nature, after clear protests, deep pain and firm but understanding conversations, eventually return to harmony.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then we'll listen to Mr. Boswijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u235	Mr. Chairman. Let one point be clear: the recklessly emptying of agricultural areas is not negotiable for the CDA. This is not an objective of policy, nor is it a viable solution to the problem of nitrogen. I live in a farmer's village myself. I see every day how closely agriculture is linked to the rural community. It's about their work, the village, the vital, united life, about their care for the landscape. Even more is about their people, about family farms that are passed on for generations. We are not talking about inflation rates that need to go up or down a bit. It's about the life and future of these people. In addition, this transition goes even further than the importance of farmers alone, the importance of rural areas alone. It is also about the care for the creation and responsibility we have for the generations after us. If we want to make this transition a success, we as politicians, from left to right, must stand next to the farmers instead of facing them. This debate has a false start, because the plans for all these farming families have not led to clarity, but to anger and great uncertainty. Even benevolent provinces are already threatening to drop out. I've been disturbed by colleagues who pose facts-free science denial as a substantive criticism of policy. I have been disturbed by unheard of comparisons with the Holocaust, which make any debate in advance impossible. But as well as that, I've been bothered by colleagues who are rightful concerns about provinces as messing around. All these contributions lack the respect and care with which we in this House should talk about the future of the outside world and of the farmers. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the proposals. Much of the anger in this country is because of the card. I know that the objectives are indicative. The Minister also calls it a talk record, but still the card raises a lot of doubts, more doubts than questions or answers. Take the Oefeller Meent in Brabant: an area that is 100% below the KDW, but still has a 95% reduction imposed. Zeeland is on the map for 12% reduction, yet buying up all farmers would only result in a 2% reduction in emissions. Last week I was at the Peel. If you buy everything in a 10-mile radius, you'll get a 25% reduction. According to the ticket, that's still 70% too little. Or take the polder Groot Wilnis-Vinkeveen, the Utrecht Heuvelrug or many RNN areas where the farmers have realized nature on a voluntary basis over the past decades. As a result, they will be reduced from 70% to 95%. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u236	I hear Mr Boswijk say that there is a lot of discussion and that he prefers to give clear wine and does not want to cast doubt in this discussion. Then I would like to ask Mr Boswijk what he means when he writes on his party's website: 'the use of the Critical Deposition Value (KDW) as a means instead of purpose'. And when I read the Minister's letter, it says: "It concerns a translation of the rural target of 74% of the area under the Critical Deposition Value (KDW) in 2030." In other words, that's the goal. But for you, it's not the target. Is that doubt, or are we going for the goals in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u237	I am very pleased with this question, so that I can answer it a little more extensively than I wanted to do now in my contribution. I have also tabled a motion on this subject quite recently, after having spoken with many professors, including Wim de Vries. But you also read the PBL report. And the fact is that we are never going to make it to the KDW in border regions or along the coast. And we also know that in some areas the KDW is exceeded, but that the actual state of nature is good. In fact, at the beginning of this year I went to work in Liefstinghsbroek, and I liked it. It wasn't new to me, but it was new that there was a ranger there who said this to me. He said, "Joh, we have blue grass here, super nitrogen-sensitive. We can buy out all the farmers here, but then I have no guarantee that blue grass will flourish suddenly, because blue grass will also benefit greatly from tormenting water. For example, if you have three dry summers and the torment water goes down, and you supplement it with rainwater, which is much sourer, then you can buy out all the farmers, you can make sure that blue grass doesn't dry out, but then it still dies. What if you buy out all the farmers, and you take those measures on hydrology? Then things still can't go well, because," said the ranger, "it's also important that I as a ranger manage well." He says, "And so there are several factors." Mr Van Campen just quoted a very wise person, who once said: creation is too complicated to hang it all on one indicator. So I'm saying that indicator sucks? No, certainly not; that indicator is scientifically substantiated. That's what the professors say. They say: it gives quite a nice picture on a large scale of what the chances of nature getting worse if you go beyond it. And they also say: it is not a law of Medes and Persians; we know that nature is a lot more complicated. And that is my plea: that we should not be dogmatic. That is also what we, as the CDA, have worked hard on, and it is also in the coalition agreement. And the PBL also advises: come with this ecological authority, that you will take some action in those areas. Because if you don't and you're going to be very dogmatic... I am also very curious to see how the Minister looks at my plea just now, because it is a really difficult point. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u238	Last question from Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u239	Does Mr Boswijk now support the objective outlined by the Minister or not? Yes or no? I understand that creation is a complicated story, and I understand that there are many more factors, but what is now hard to agree on is: are we going to make sure that critical deposition value is achieved or not? Is the CDA behind that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u240	Mr. Chairman. That's my first sentence. I would like to continue my speech, because then the answer will come right up. For the CDA, the main target, 50% nitrogen reduction, is not under discussion. Our concerns, and those of many farmers in the country, concern implementation, and that is why we are asking for the Minister's intentions to be adjusted, adjusted or completely clarified on seven points. Firstly, we want a clear perspective for the PAS detectors. There is hardly anything about this in the letter. Why is that? When does the Minister come up with a proper arrangement? Overijssel is now forced to maintain. Secondly, we want to make it clear that there must be freedom for the provinces, if implementation is with them. I assume they have the freedom to draw their own plans, as long as the sum of the tasks is right. I'd like a response. Point three. If we are talking about a false start, then this also applies to the absence of the tasks for the other sectors, such as aviation, shipping and industry. Why wasn't it chosen to lay down an integral plan so that for everything and everyone it's clear who, what, when will deliver? There are also factories that emit ammonia. Many farmers now rightly have the feeling of great injustice. Does the Minister understand that? And when does the Minister come up with these plans? Preferably as soon as possible. Fourth, the KDW. I've already given something of a lecture on it. For some regions, these plans are simply unachievable; think of the coast and border regions. In these cases, it must be possible to deviate with proper support from the ecological authority. This is really a difficult point for my group, because this makes the difference between a tough task for an area or an impossible one. As a CDA, we also tabled a motion on this issue in April, which was adopted in Parliament. I would like a very clear answer on this point. Then I'll come to point five. To keep it simple for the viewers of this debate, it is good to know that there are different ways of reducing nitrogen. This can be done by innovating, extending, by management measures, by moving or by stopping. Why, then, is the letter only more specific than the stopper scheme? Where are the fiercely attractive arrangements for the other options? If we're gonna get farmers, we're gonna have to let them think along. Put the choices in a roadmap, on which different scenarios have been worked out. Now it is often interpreted as follows. In an area where nitrogen emissions should be reduced by 70%, there would be a 70% reduction in livestock. The sixth concern of the CDA concerns the socio-economic impact of the plans. We want a clear commitment that nitrogen targets will not be translated one-on-one into livestock reduction, but that the impact in each region will also be taken into account. The Birds and Habitats Directives, which it once started, also make room for this. For this, too, there is an approved motion from my hand. I have already read a cryptic phrase about it, but I would very much like to hear from the Minister how she looks at the processing of the socio-economic impact of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr. Eppink, do you mind if the contribution is completed first and your question follows?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u243	Go ahead, Mr. Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u244	Finally, I come to the seventh point: the future. The prospects offered to farmers are lean against the measures contained in the nitrogen letter. The sausage that is being held is actually only a very small sausage with very little taste. While a sustainable perspective on a fair sandwich and a healthy future can really motivate farmers to take the next step. The Minister for Agriculture has a mandate and the means to really stand up for the farmers. We have recently, of course, seen a grocery store embarrassing farmers to shit. Then it was about milk. We now also see that certain banks react by not financing the card anymore. I'm also curious to see how the Minister looks at that. I do think that we should also call on those parties to be morally accountable. Mr President, I will conclude. Former Minister Jan de Koning was an encyclopedia for peasant wisdom. He knew a plant wouldn't grow any harder if you started pulling its leaves. That goes for here, too. But he also knew that if it can't be done as it should be, it has to be done as it can. That is why I call on the ministers to be flexible and ambitious and to get the farmers, the sector and the provinces as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u245	I am glad to hear that Mr Boswijk is a bit relative to the concept of "KDW." It's not a law of Medes and Persians. Now we're going to see where it's feasible or not. The Habitats Directive Article 6 does not in itself know KDW as value. It is a conservation obligation. It is therefore, in fact, a framework. That gives us a certain freedom to set our own standards. I would like to propose to Mr Boswijk that he go further. I'm glad the CDA came up with that. Your departments of the entire province of Overijssel are against the current nitrogen policy. I'm sure I'm willing to think creatively with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u246	I'm always open to people who want to think creatively. Well, that's good to hear. I've heard a lot of people say over the last few days that the whole word "Nuclear" isn't in anything. That's a little too easy. We know that there are several factors that affect the state of nature, which cause nature to deteriorate. That is, as I just said, the quality of the water, the management, but we also know that it is nitrogen. One of the ways that leads to a nitrogen overrun is a KDW. So I understand that it is used as an indicator and that it is also an important indicator, but I think it is very important that we also realize that we are never going to meet it in some areas. We know that, so you have to offer a perspective. In itself, my story isn't entirely new. Last year, I believe in April, I tabled a motion with Mr Bishop and quite recently, in April, another one of which I myself was the initiator. He's also been hired Chamberwide. But I have to admit that I had clearly defined such a thorny point in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u247	Are you therefore prepared to look into the 162 special Natura 2000 sites? That is where the problem is concentrated. Wouldn't it be better to carry out a recast so that it's more consistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u248	I have already made a comment on this earlier this day. When I was liquid, this happened to a large extent. With the knowledge of today, there would really have been other decisions at that time. I know that a lot of pastors have tried this inside and outside my party. I myself asked the Commissioner personally. Even if I wanted to, it's just not a viable map. Then we must be honest with the agricultural sector, but also with industry: boys, this is the task at the moment; we must first reduce nitrogen, we must restore nature, and only when we have a good report figure can we go to the Euro Commission. At the moment, we are by far the largest nitrogen emitter per hectare. I think, quite frankly, that is not a science; it is also a good thing to hear that, if you are going to be among Germany and Belgium, the next one on the list of the biggest protestors, if you are able to perform that, is a good starting point to point out and your neighbouring countries and to get more room in the Euro Commission. But the crappy thing is, that's gonna take a while. So I can't deliver on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u249	Can I just say one more thing for your information? The managing director responsible for the designation of these Natura 2000 sites was Mr Veerman of your party. But in the meantime, he's a big farmer in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u250	Mr Thijssen's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u251	I still want to respond to the latter. That's right. But my party has been sitting on different buttons since 1918, so it's true that we have our fingerprint on it here and there. In hindsight, maybe we should have done it differently. But there are a lot of fingerprints here, including your former party, the VVD, up to and including the PvdA. That is indeed a fact. At the same time, we are all here as newcomers, and so are you. We have to do it with the history we inherited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u252	Mr Thijssen's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u253	I hear from Mr Boswijk that he agrees with the aim of halve nitrogen pollution, but I understand that he has doubts about the Minister's objective of reducing the critical deposition value by 74% just in the little debate with Mr Eppink. I think that is an important point to mark in this debate. This means that there is a disagreement between the government, who finds something about what is needed to restore nature, and one of the important coalition parties. It is not a question, because you have just answered, but I would like a response from the cabinet. It is quite something if there is a difference of opinion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u254	I gave my points to the Minister. I am very curious about her response, because it is indeed an important point for us. I would also add that nature is also important for the CDA. Nitrogen reduction is not only good for nature, but also for the health of the people living there. That's one thing, too, I think. I haven't heard the whole term "people's health" today, but we should also be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u255	Then I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes. Then we'll move on to Mrs. Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u256	I give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt. Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u257	Mr President, on a point of order. There was a debate just now about Lelystad Airport and now news comes via...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u258	Minister, perhaps you could join us...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u259	Through RTL we just see that there is a decision. The decision on Lelystad will be postponed for two years and Schiphol will shrink. This latest news came last week. In the light of this debate, I would like a letter from the government which addresses the news that has now been leaked through RTL. I would also like to hear from the government whether the permit is complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u260	Thank you. That is what I am saying: I passed that request on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u261	Exactly. I'd like to give it a little more time. I would like to receive this from these ministers well before the start of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u262	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Angry farmers, hikers on the highways, MPs whose safety cannot be guaranteed according to NCTV, our biodiversity that is becoming ever more distorted, the risk of animal diseases that jump on people, these are the results of a long-standing policy of opportunism, eyelashing and a very strong lobby. The choice that many farmers have and had is between a financially profitable agricultural model and a way of protecting our nature. That's not a fair choice. Let me be clear: when I say "a profitable agricultural model," I ask myself the question: how profitable exactly and for whom? Do we know exactly which players make a profit throughout the agricultural chain and how much and do we have enough visibility? Do we know the differences between the different farms? Does the Minister have a good view of the earning models and revenues within the entire chain? Mr. Chairman. We need that information in order to check whether the new income models we want to set up with each other to make agriculture more sustainable actually work. How are we going to ensure that the billions that are available end up in the right place? Some farmers are millionaires, others the water is on the lips. How is the cabinet going to implement policies that are fair, effective and sustainable? Can the Minister promise that this money will not end up with the large and powerful parties that are jointly responsible for the nitrogen crisis? Mr. Chairman. This system cannot continue to exist like this. We need a system change that fits in the future. Now it's about a nitrogen crisis, but if we solve it alone, we'll be back here in about three years to debate a water quality crisis. We lose 6 to 7 billion a year in environmental and climate damage. If we use the billions from the nitrogen fund properly, we will contribute to achieving the climate targets. I see that commitment in both ministers, but I do wonder if we have a good enough map of the system. For this, we need to look at the solutions that are available in a chain-wide manner. And we have to answer together the question of what earning model works within the boundaries of our nature and our society. I would very much like to hear the Minister's views on this. Mr. Chairman. Let me make one thing clear: this future-proof model has a number of innovations, but it is not built on innovations. Innovate with nature, not against nature, via food forests, carbon storage, bond cultivation. This is innovation that we can move forward for years to come. These innovations work in practice and not just on paper. Ground-based agriculture is part of that future-proof system. For Volt, it is not yet clear how the Minister intends to move towards a more land-based form of agriculture. Some forms of agriculture, such as mega-stables with thousands of animals, are no longer appropriate, are they not? We have to be honest about that. I'd like a response. This crisis is cross-sector. Can the Minister, therefore, promise that other nitrogen emissions, such as from industry, will also make a fair contribution to the area-based approach? How does the exemption position of aviation, shipping and heavy energy generation fit into the ammonia map? When does the Minister intend to give a clear picture of the sector in which all these other sectors have been included and in which, above all, the coordination between all these sectors is clearly seen? Volt wants farmers who are in uncertainty to have a clear point of contact and to be helped to make the necessary change. I see the need for such a point of contact that, together with farmers, identifies the legal and financial bottlenecks, so that we work together to eliminate those bottlenecks where possible. How's the minister looking at this? What, for example, is the Minister doing to speed up the quality of organic farmers? It's been three years. If we can do this faster, we will increase the possibility for farmers to make the transition to balanced farmers. Mr. Chairman. Such a future-proof system raises the question: how are we going to work together in Europe to ensure that all our efforts are not offset by the relocation of production to other countries, but also by emissions that move across borders? This nitrogen carries on and so we pollute our neighbors and our neighbors pollute us. A common approach is therefore needed. Does this new approach to nitrogen sufficiently ensure this joint approach? The EU Biodiversity Strategy calls on Member States to ensure more nature on our continent. The Netherlands Nature Network, together with the natural areas in other European countries, should eventually become the contiguous Pan-European Ecological Network, or PEEN.I did not come up with it. Volt wonders how the farmers are going to play a role in this, for example through nature-inclusive farming practices, so that we do not turn nature and farmers against each other, but work together for a bright future for all of us. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, Mr President. No one benefits from polarization. The coming year is crucial to find a new balance with farmers and nature. Then let's do it together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've agreed on a CO-energy transition here without thinking about energy security. We pay a high price for that. If we even look outside this room for a moment, we can see that we are currently facing serious food shortages. These can occur in the Netherlands, but also in other parts of the world. So my first question is: how does what we see here relate to how we deal with food scarcity over the next few weeks, months and years that we have not seen in decades? You often have to solve multiple problems at the same time. That's what's going on here. I brought one here... and it's a huge threat to the people who look on the map where their farm is. Is it in a 12% area or is it just 2 millimeters away in a 70% area? Can't you go anywhere on your farm that you've been doing for generations? How does the government intend to get a sector involved in this kind of policy? I actually expected that, apart from a map that we then got, we would get some sort of plan with a budget, with what the other sectors, industry and traffic, would have to do and how much it might cost. I'm not only interested in the models, I'm also interested in nitrogen. So I would also like to hear what high-flying air traffic is like over 900 metres or sea transport or energy generation. That may not be in the models, but in my opinion I liked models that were about nitrogen and not about the models. Mr. Chairman. Because I don't have much time, I have some specific questions. Are the Wadden Islands going to 0% or 90%? It's a small question, but it shows exactly how such a model is going to determine reality in one go. A marine biologist says there's no ammonia coming out. There is no intensive livestock farming, there is even an island that is completely car-free. I really have no idea how you want to reduce 90%. The border effects with Germany. That's not a theoretical question. We have a very long border with Germany. If there is a completely different policy on the other side of the border, I can assure you that it is inexplicable and that the basis is completely gone. How do we get policies that are equal on both sides? What is the basis for a 38% reduction in the foreign nitrogen deposition? The Natura 2000 report, the latest in 2019, mentions a number of other threats to the Netherlands, such as invasive species and accumulation of organic materials. Where is the integrated strategy, with water, which has been mentioned before, to solve these problems? Or are we going to have a separate debate here all the time? We now see in Overijssel that because of the nitrogen we have to close a biomass plant, which is precisely because of the CO strategy. Now I do not know if it was good in the CO strategy, but this is not the way to conduct policy. Finally, Mr President. If we wanted some support in the cabinet, how come we didn't take source materials to at least help the PAS detectors who are in acute trouble? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u266	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u267	Thank you, Madam President. More and more Dutch people see that it is a big lie that nitrogen policy is meant to protect nature. Admittedly, it's clever. 'Cause who's not here for nature conservation? We all love nature. Of course, we all want future generations to be able to enjoy nature. Of course, we must respect nature and act as a good steward. That is precisely why it is so false to pretend that these disastrous nitrogen measures would be necessary for nature. It is a propaganda technique that is used on the conveyor belt to take unpopular measures that actually serve a completely different agenda. Who can see it around the corona policy? Digital access to social life would be necessary to protect public health. 'Cause who wouldn't want that? Who can see it about climate policy? At once, a flight tax and a meat tax would be necessary to save the planet. 'Cause who wouldn't want that? It is pure manipulation and emotional blackmail, because one knows that if one says what one really wants to achieve, the people would never agree to it. The nitrogen policy is not about nature, but about land. It's common ground policy. Landjepick: nothing more and nothing less, that is obvious. For starters, nitrogen isn't bad for nature at all. Nitrogen is an essential nutrient for trees and plants and not, as D66 claims, a substance that ensures that "nature gets a suffocating blanket over it and thus slowly dies off." That's the exact quote. It is pure scare-making, pure disinformation: without nitrogen nothing could grow in the Netherlands. And what exactly do we mean by "nature"? What is nature anyway? If you look at the dictionary, nature is a state not altered by man. Strictly speaking, there is no real nature in the Netherlands. Every square metre of our land has been worked by humans in the last centuries. The Netherlands consists of nothing but cultural landscape. The only real nature we have left is the North Sea, a protected nature reserve that is ironically filled with heavy industry in the form of thousands of megawind turbines. Speaking of nature conservation! Also the so-called nature that one would suddenly want to protect at all costs, the heath, is cultural landscape. And yes, I love a heath field, too. And yes, heaths are very sensitive to nitrogen because heaths are just a species that can survive on a low-food soil and will disappear as the soil is fed and where other species are replaced. An ecological process called succession. But the fact is that, before people came to live in the Netherlands, there was no heath either. And if you want to protect heaths, so that lovers can continue to enjoy them, then it can also be done by grazing sheep, which eat other vegetation, or by plaguing the upper layer of soil, as we have always done in the past centuries. But there are more reasons that make it clear that nitrogen policy is not really about nature, but about the land of farmers. The cabinet has committed itself to an international agenda 2030. To carry it out, it takes a lot of land. They want to achieve so-called climate targets and to do so by 2030, they want to stamp thousands of mega-wind turbines out of the ground. They want to build 1 million homes in the coming years, even up to 2030. That's for people who aren't even in the Netherlands yet. And yes, there's land for that, and the state doesn't have it. But the farmers do. Two thirds of all land in the Netherlands is used by agriculture. That's land the cabinet has set its sights on. Thousands of farms are now hanging by a thread, including the employees and the farmers' families who are hiding behind it. A population group with a beautiful cultural identity risks gradually disappearing. This is not just a disaster for those directly affected. This is a disaster for the whole of the Netherlands. Our characteristic landscape, with meadows where cows graze, threatens to be destroyed. We are in danger of becoming dependent on other countries for our most primary need for life, food. That is not because it is necessary, but because the cabinet deliberately chooses to do so. It's a political choice. That's the only honest story, and the cabinet shouldn't run away from it. One chooses an agenda 2030, which will turn the Netherlands into a world city, surrounded by industrial sites, full of megawind turbines and solar panel fields. The Forum for Democracy will always resist this, with its hands and teeth. We want to release our farmers to farmers and put aside all unnecessary, suffocating nitrogen rules. Mr President, I will conclude. We do not opt for mass immigration, but for farmers. Not for wind turbines, but for our food supply. Not for meadows with solar panels, but for pastures with cows. We don't choose the globalists. We choose the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u268	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. Before I suspend, I shall give the floor to Mr Van Haga. This is not a question to you, Mr Van Meijeren, but a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u269	Yeah, because I'm out of interruptions, so I can't. I would like to table a motion in the second term on which I would like to vote by roll call. I'm announcing that right now, so we won't have to suspend for three hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u270	Thank you. I would like to look at my fellow Members to see whether there is any objection to a roll-call vote on one motion today, namely Mr Van Haga's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u271	It is the right of an individual MP to ask, but we have agreed... I'd like to know the urgency of the motion. Why do we have to vote on that tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u272	Yes. Mr Van Haga. The question is: can we not vote on this motion on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u273	Well, the signal must be given as soon as possible, because the farmers are under great pressure. I think every day they sleep less badly, one is won.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u274	That's true. Every day farmers sleep less badly, one is won. I do not think this motion is going to contribute to that. That is why I would like to say that we shall be voting on this on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u275	Let me see if there is any support for Mr Van Haga's request for a vote to be taken this evening. Let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u276	Yeah, of course support. It's crazy if you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u277	Yes. Let me see if there are any other colleagues who support Mr Van Haga's proposal. Mrs. Van der Plas. I would just like to say that a Member of Parliament has the right to request a roll-call vote, but we have agreed that the Chamber is about the moment. There are two possibilities: suspend or vote for the first regular option for three hours. The last one's on Tuesday. That is why I would like to check the wishes of the Chamber on this point. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u278	I support this. I believe that every Member of Parliament is also supposed to be in the vicinity of The Hague on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. So I don't see why it shouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u279	You support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u280	I therefore do not support Mr Klaver's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u281	Let me take a look, because my question was whether there are any groups that support Mr Van Haga's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u282	Congratulations on your support, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u283	Thank you. I see, Mr Van Haga, that there is no support from a majority to vote tonight. That means we are going to vote by roll call, but we are going to vote by roll call on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u284	But isn't this just the result of the fact that we still think we're in some kind of corona regime? I think that's what we agreed on during corona to relieve everyone a little bit and to subdue ourselves less to the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u285	We continued that deal with each other. This is the deal we made. It is, once again, a right of a Member of Parliament to have a roll-call vote. We are. However, we have agreed that we will be voting with a majority in the Chamber. That can sometimes be "three hours suspended" and sometimes "on the next day." That is Tuesday in this case, because a majority has voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mr President, but still. If it's a normal motion, I'll understand. But if it is a motion of censure or censure, then I suppose it should simply be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u287	The same regime applies. You did not state that in your first request, but that is the same regime. We are therefore going to vote on the motions for resolutions which are still before us on Tuesday. I propose that we suspend until 6.30 p.m., including dinner suspension. I'll give you that. Then we start with the first term from the cabinet side. Enjoy your meal and until 6:30!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u288	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on nitrogen policy. The Minister for Nature and Nitrogen will begin. She will start with an introduction and then she will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u289	I said in the first term that I would still offer the Minister our plan. I forgot all about that, so that's what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u290	All right. I would ask the messenger to give Mrs Van der Plas' piece to the cabinet. Thank you for that. The piece goes to the cabinet and is also copied, so that the members have Mrs Van der Plas' piece as well. I give the floor to the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. I have agreed with Members that there is some flexibility in the number of interruptions, but this can only be done if it is short and concise. It really needs to be shorter and shorter than just. Otherwise, I'm going to interrupt you again in an awkward way, because we're trying to finish at a normal time. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with Mr Klaver's question about the letter before the debate. If it's okay, the letter's on its way. He may or may not have just come in, but the letter is on its way. Mr. Chairman. I do have a brief introduction and then I have cubes. I have a block of general, goals and ticket. I have a block of provinces and sectors. Then a block of nature and KDW, and then other. Then Minister Staghouwer continues with the perspective. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased, but I am particularly pleased that we are here today talking about tackling nitrogen reduction, climate and water, and how we are working on this in the rural area. I welcome the fact that we are continuing to work for clarity for farmers, who are a large part of the solution and without whom we cannot achieve the goals at all. I understand very well that directional goals and a map are extremely intense, that a lot of people and companies are now experiencing great uncertainty, that this starting point is really not yet clear enough and that the farmer feels that the blame is being placed on the farm. I see that affects a lot of people, and so does I. For years, as a government, we have set policies for maximum production, often at the lowest possible price, with subsidies and with permits. The fact that this has to be changed, that this has to be much more balanced, is clear. I believe that, as a government, we are responsible for the problem that has arisen. If that question of guilt has to be put somewhere, it is not on the farmyard, but do it to me as the government. We also take responsibility for resolving this as a cabinet. That's what we're talking about here in the Chamber today. Mr. Chairman. Like I said, we're at the starting point. We are at the beginning of the period in which we and the provinces are going to see how we are going to achieve the goals. Unfortunately, this means that we are not yet able to clarify exactly what this is going to mean for each area. But the alternative was that I would have dictated from The Hague how in each area, however different, that reduction should be achieved. I don't want to, because I don't need to. There are areas where much can be done, also in the future. And yes, there are also areas where the situation is much more serious. That's where we need to get started. We don't have a choice. But we go in and between all those areas to see what is possible and what space we have within the goals for nature, water and climate. We are not doing it for nothing, because the reduction of nitrogen is not an end in itself. Our goal is to restore and improve nature. One derivative of this is how to reduce nitrogen emissions, meet the climate targets in agriculture and improve water quality. And yes, this has a huge impact on the rural area and on people's lives, and certainly on farmers. I see the pain in the many reactions over the last few weeks. But I would also like to hear the contributions of the various members of the House of Representatives. Unfortunately, the emissions we need to reduce are almost always the result of things that are very important to us all. We want room for our farmers, but we also want room for building houses and building roads or strengthening dikes for our water safety. As far as I am concerned, it is now up to us to clarify as quickly as possible, to remove the uncertainty that too many people, and certainly our farmers, have been in for too long, even if that means that uncertainty is increasing and that the message is painful. Because, yes, it will mean to some of our farmers that they cannot continue their business as they always did. But I think it is important to emphasise that this is not the only option. We are also looking at other options that reduce emissions or other forms of less intensive companies. It is crucial that the agricultural sector can continue to produce good food. We won't drop them. They can count on our support, including financial support. This is not just about financial aid for the changeover that we have to make now, but it is also about getting a better position in the chain, getting a better price and having a perspective for the future, so that they will soon know that every investment that every farmer makes actually pays, that food can also be produced in the future in a good way in the Netherlands, but in balance with what nature can carry. Mr Staghouwer will deal with this in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing my introduction. I understand that the card in which all this is displayed has stirred up a lot of dust, that people are looking directly at where their business is on that card, and that directional reduction targets, especially with the task ahead of us, have a huge impact. That's what affects people. That is why, here too, I would like to make it clear once again that these are indicative reduction targets per province. They must lead to the achievement of the overall goal in the areas of nature, water and climate for our entire country. There is space for customization: customization in the distribution between areas and customization in how these goals are to be achieved. The provinces are now talking in the areas with the people who live and work there, to see how this assignment can be completed. The provinces and the regions have a year to do that. Let us also be clear: all sectors must make a proportionate contribution, not just agriculture. For the other sectors, mobility and industry, too, I am going to set directional targets. I have close contact with the Minister for Climate and Energy and with the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management. Mr. Chairman. We need each other. We need each other to achieve these goals. And as much as I understand that this is not an easy task, I am confident that everyone will take responsibility for it. I want to start with the ticket now. As I said in my introduction, I realize how far-reaching it is when you, as a farmer, see a card with colors and directional objectives. I realize you're gonna look right at it, "Hey, where am I?" I understand. And I understand the impact of that. At the same time, here's what I'm saying. When I started this job, I knew this moment was about to come. The moment would come when you would have to take a first step, a step of that whole abstract target of 50% less nitrogen emissions by 2030, to: what does that mean for each area? I knew the moment would come when for the first time it would become clear what that means per area, and how much impact that will have. That's a terrible message I have to deliver. But it's necessary. You need that turning point so the provinces can get started. I have received very clear frameworks from the coalition agreement. There should be a 50% reduction by 2030. But it also needs to be organized area-oriented. And water and soil must be the guiding principles. In my main letter and in the debate in April on the nitrogen approach, I also indicated that I would come forward with directional targets for each area before the summer. The point is, because 1 July 2023 is the moment when we are really going to set targets by area. Provinces are now working on the how. And this map is really the starting point. The map is the starting point to zoom in by area and look: how are we going to achieve the goals? It's a year to refine. The basis of this map is modelled. This means that there are guiding principles, such as nature, a transition area, Natura 2000, a 12% area. On the basis of these guiding principles, which have been applied modelly, the whole of the Netherlands is divided. That does indeed give us a strange picture if you look at Vlieland for example. There is an objective, but no intensive livestock farming. This is exactly what I also discussed with the provinces. It is directional, and it is now up to the provinces to work on this and refine it. Then they will zoom in on Vlieland and they will ask: how can this happen? And if 95% is not feasible there, how are we going to shift it in Friesland and solve it in a different way? I'll send on the countdown to 50% in 2030. That percentage is fixed for me. And how do we get there? We have a year to implement this together with the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u292	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u293	I'd like to come back to the industry. The Minister says, "I'll get to that." Yesterday there was a debate on external security with the Minister of IenW. It has already been indicated that the best available technology standard for ammonia would go from 30 micrograms to 5 micrograms. Well, that's a big step. The question remains: when exactly is that going to happen? That step hasn't yet been taken for nitrogen oxide. When can we expect it? This is a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u294	Yes, there is. One. We have the National Program of Rural Areas. I understand the sense of justice among farmers. It is now thought that only agriculture is affected; where is the card for the other sectors? I understand that feeling incredibly well. At the same time, I couldn't wait. We want to give the provinces the chance to work on this for a year. I want to come up with directional targets for NO, industry and transport by the end of this year or early 2023, so that we can click on them on 1 July 2023. This can happen at the same time as clicking on the targets for the NPLG. However, this calls for a different approach. For ammonia we do area-oriented, so through the map. NO requires a generic measure. NO has a different acidifying effect than ammonia. So there are differences. This requires a different approach. So it doesn't run in time. It is my aim, however, to fix it permanently on 1 July 2023 for all sectors, including industry. I come at the end of this year, beginning of January 2023, with the directional targets for the other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u295	I understand it's two different things. I just want to understand why it's still going on until January. What else does that take? What discussions are we talking about? Is that a technical exercise or is that also a political exercise between ministries? I want to understand that, because I actually think it needs to be faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u296	No, this is not a political exercise. This is really about the analysis. We're looking at what's already happening in the field of NO. We want the results of the KEV, the climate and energy exploration, coming in October. That's what we want to incorporate into this. I want to know how much is already happening through the climate fund. Every euro we invest in fossil-free does a lot for NO. So I also think we should do it smartly. We're doing that analysis now. Before we can determine the directional target for NO, it must be completed. That's what I come up with at the end of this year or January 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u297	I understand it takes some time to get a look at the whole picture. January 1st is a really hard deadline, as far as I'm concerned. We need to be able to talk about this in the Chamber. However, we also have the best available technology. We see that this has not been maintained for years. Yesterday, however, a sharpening of ammonia was announced. It's due in January, I think. But we can just raise the standards. That's why you're forcing the industry to make it more sustainable. Tightening those standards can be done much faster, I think. I would almost say that we can still do that during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u298	That's too short a turn. I have colleagues. I want to work with those colleagues. It is also up to my colleagues to indicate how they intend to achieve these goals. I am in favour of setting directional targets and presenting them to the Chamber at the end of the year or early 2023. I'm sending out that we're gonna have this equivalent to the agricultural sector on 1 July 2023, and we're definitely gonna have to stick to all the targets. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u299	I find it striking that Mr Klaver here is in favour of the best technology available. When it comes to livestock farming, it is suddenly not allowed to do so. But that aside. At the technical briefing of the RIVM on the ticket I asked the following question. This card is only about ammonia in livestock farming. I'm sorry to hear that. We are asking for a proportionate contribution from all sectors. The Minister states here that I am very pleased that the map is a starting point and that industry and mobility will also make their contributions. I would like to ask the Minister the following. Imagine making a map on which we would also see industry, mobility, the KEV bills and the climate agreement transfers. Would we then get a more nuanced picture in areas, including livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u300	NO reduction is generic. That's one. Two, we work here as one government. In the rural area transition fund, we take the climate targets for agriculture with us. The climate fund is back on the line for NO reduction in industry. We really work together as one government, but this is a generic measure. In addition, in areas, a province may choose to meet its objectives through an industrial line, i.e. through NO and less through agriculture. That space is in there if it's substantiated. That's also the conversation I'm having with the provinces right now. But the guiding targets that I want to set nationally, aimed at reducing NO through industry and transport, come at the end of the year or early 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u301	That's enlightening. Let me make sure I get this straight. The Minister knows the province of Gelderland very well. I think this is a serious case. Suppose you have a number of agricultural holdings, livestock farms in a particular area and also a large paper mill or another emitter of NO or NH, ammonia. If that plant had perhaps already intended to stop or close, it could be, if that were to happen, that would give more room for livestock farmers to stay in such an area. Is that what the Minister says about this? My question is actually whether NO and NH are interchangeable for provinces to offer customization in those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u302	The provinces have the opportunity to deviate with customization. We're gonna have that conversation next year. I'm sending 50% less nitrogen emissions by 2030 and 74% of the areas under the KDW. That is the aim, and we must do it efficiently and cost-effectively. This is exactly what I'm going to do with the provinces next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u303	Mr. Chairman. Finally. So that means it doesn't matter whether it's NO or NH.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u304	Yeah, but I'd like to point out that NO is really different from NH in terms of distribution, precipitation, acidifying effect, so we're really gonna have to look at this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u305	Mr Boswijk, CDA, and then Mr Bisschop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u306	It is good to hear that the provinces have a lot of space to do so themselves. I think that's important. I'm gonna hook up on that last point. It is true that a lot of NO comes from industry and much from mobility and so on and that NO has very different properties than ammonia, but there are also factories that sometimes run against Natura 2000 and also emit ammonia. Why didn't we choose to include those factories, for example Yara in Zeeland, which have a very big impact on that area? It's about ammonia knocking down locally, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u307	I just tried to explain that. This is the National Rural Area Programme, with the objectives for nitrogen, water and climate for the agricultural sector. That's what the provinces have to do. I really wanted to give you a year to do that, knowing that you are bringing out a directional card, that gives direction and also gives a lot of uncertainty. If I were to wait for the NO approach, I would delay it and the provinces would have much less time to start and fine tune with those processes in those areas. That deadline of July 1, 2023 is also in our law. These are the considerations in which every route is almost sub-optimal, but I deliberately chose to say: no, we have a mission, 50% reduction in that agriculture, through the National Programme of Rural Areas and the area-oriented approach. I just want to give a year to start those area processes, to put those puzzles of what can or can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u308	That's clear, but again, we do have factories that only emit ammonia. I think it would have been more convenient to treat them separately and take them with you. In some areas, this can have a significant impact on that area process. Then perhaps in Brabant there would suddenly have to be a much less reduction in livestock farming in some areas. Uh, now I've lost my question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u309	Let's go see Mr. Bishop first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u310	If I may say so, Mr President, the provinces are free to look at this and come back to me with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u311	Do you remember your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u312	Yes! I remember him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u313	Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u314	I understand that you need a longer period of time to take the NO reduction, but of course a lot of agreements have already been made in the Climate Agreement. Would it be possible that you are already making some kind of preliminary analysis showing what the NO reduction would be about? Then we can at least take that into account in the process, knowing that the reduction is likely to be higher because additional agreements have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u315	That is exactly the analysis we are currently making to determine those directional goals: what are we doing, what is still needed, what does it cost, in what terms of efficiency? We also need to look at the climate fund for this. This is exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u316	Mr. Boswijk? No? Then we'll go to Mr. Bishop, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u317	Of course, the fact that these reduction cards are not yet there is an incredible amount to say. That says that the understanding of nitrogen oxide emissions, and even, I think, the ammonia emissions from all those companies, is simply not there. Otherwise you would have had an integrated approach and then you would have shown that each of the sectors, each of the emitters, makes a proportionate contribution. Is this finding correct? Are things simply not in order, and has it not been presented already? In addition, this has an extremely negative effect, as stated in the national programme, the adoption of generic measures for the reduction of NO can have an impact on the requirements for the reduction of NH. That sounds nice, but that means that provinces can now bet heavily on the reductions according to the tables indicated on the map, but after, let's say, 15 January can say: no, it doesn't have to; it can be otherwise. And then there is a third objection, and that is why we are not very happy with this approach: if the requirements in the area of climate and water are known, they can also lead to adaptation. This is also indicated in the national programme. That is one of the reasons why there is absolutely no confidence in the approach in the sector. Honestly, I'm just gonna have to agree with them on that administratively. Does the Minister share these feelings a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u318	Then the question is, what is a little? I share the feelings that such a card has impact and leads to uncertainty. I'll share that. NO has a different approach. That's a generic approach. We're not gonna make a ticket for that. This is different from the area-based approach in NH for agriculture. That is a completely different approach. So no, there's not gonna be a ticket for NO. These will be generic targets, focused on industry and transport. We'll keep changing that card for the next year. There's no other way. The alternative would have been that we had counted and signed in detail on LNV or at any ministry and that we had presented a final ticket in one go. That would have been the alternative. We deliberately did not choose to do so, because that would be a dictation. We have chosen direction. The provinces need them, too. The provinces want to get to work, but then they need to know which direction this is going about. That's why this card is now presented. Again, I realize that this is suboptimal because it is only a direction, a starting point. At the same time, we need this, because how else are we going to determine what is needed in one go of 50% reduction to the farmyard? We can't go from the basement to the attic in one go. So you have no choice but to take each floor with you. And again, I realize that it is directional and that it leads to a lot of unrest, and at the same time it is precisely the intention to go together with the provinces, together with the regions, next year and to answer all these questions. This may mean that in some areas those directional targets go down slightly because from NO there is a contribution that allows the target to go down. Maybe it's going up a little bit. We're gonna put that puzzle together now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u319	This simply illustrates the failure of understanding of what is being released at the moment, particularly in the field of activity? And it also illustrates the potential failure of the policy. 'Cause you're setting tough targets right now. Yes, "direction" we say, but a strong extortionist called "Rockwool" can have a huge impact on the demands of such an area. I understand that the Minister wants to speed things up, but it would be fair to say: yes, but we do not have the right things in the other sectors. And that's actually my core question: is that image correct? The Minister has not yet replied. Is that a picture? And does the Minister understand that this is a source of distrust in the agricultural sector, of: 'What is going on here, are we being sacrificed as a matter of priority here?'
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u320	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u321	That image doesn't add up. What I said was, I want an analysis. What is happening from the climate agreement? What will the KEV achieve in October, November? I would like to make this analysis together with my colleague Jetten and Mr Harbers. This is also a careful process. And putting this at a great pace in order to be able to start from the same starting point, I don't think it's careful either. So I just want to make that analysis thorough, along with my colleagues. I also come up with directional targets for industry and transport, at the end of this year, beginning of 2023, with the aim of definitively setting all objectives, inevitable, for all sectors. That's what I'm sending you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u322	We can talk about this for a long time, but if the KEV of October 2022 is needed for the other sectors, then it is also necessary for agriculture. Then it cannot be that agriculture is based on the KEV 2020, because that is where you can get the data for those other sectors too. Mr President, I do not want to unnecessarily feed the mistrust of policy, but this feeds it. I'm just making myself the interpreter, in all honesty and sincerity. This does not provide a basis for sound and trustworthy policies. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u323	Again, the alternative would be to wait for this. Then in January, February, I would come to the agricultural sector with the same directional goals, and then the provinces would have four months to see how they will fine tune this in the areas. And I've deliberately chosen to communicate the goals directionally, in all transparency. Because we are working on these preparations to share that in all transparency, knowing how much impact it has, but we have to go through this hoop sometime. You can't escape the fact that there will be a moment when directional first becomes visible how much impact this has in a lot of areas, for a lot of farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u324	A tip: an alternative could have been to address the issue in its entirety, i.e. all sectors, and to use the KEV 2020. I do not see why you do not have to wait for 2022 for agriculture and for industry and related sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u325	I'm repeating myself. The National Programme Rural Area is so incredibly complex. We are going to see what can and cannot be done by area, what is the perspective and which farmers want to stop voluntarily and which do not. What farmers want to go through? Can this be done, with the help of innovation, extrapolation and agricultural nature management? This is so complex. This calls for so much fine-tuning in those areas. Are those boundaries right? Should the boundaries be larger or smaller? We have to count and sign. You'll need a year to do that. That is why we have said: we are about to start this directionally. Again, the alternative would be that I would continue to calculate and sign behind the scenes with the provinces, but I deliberately chose to bring out the directional targets for the National Programme Rural Area before the summer. That's what I communicated in April. I did it this way to get on with it. I understand the impact, but it's a moment we can't escape; it has to be clear for once. The other sectors will also contribute. I'm on top of that. This should make it possible to set all targets by 1 July 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u326	Mr. Bishop, if you have anything else to say, put it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u327	No, I just spoke to a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u328	Okay. Mrs. Beckerman, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u329	In areas, of course, this is very unfair. I would like to give a concrete example of this. That's Nuon's former power plant. Now it's Vattenfall's. It's right on the Wadden Sea. Minister Staghouwer and I know him very well from a past in provincial politics. In that the SP really fought against the arrival of that factory. It finally came. Minister Brinkhorst said there could be two coal power stations in Groningen. That factory came and we already knew: this is just a political mistake. So that factory is really at the top of the ammonia vents. They're gonna be able to eject even more. I ask the Minister: that is almost impossible to explain, isn't it? It cannot be explained that there is no targeted policy at the moment, when you are already going to hit all the farmers so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u330	Two things. At the end of this year or early January there will be real directional targets for the large ammonia emitters in the industry. It's a fact that we're adding. This is also happening in agriculture through new stables, I say. We add while emission reduction and nature recovery are the targets. That's a real concern. I'll share that. That is why I come in September for agriculture with a letter on authorisation. That is also what I am going to discuss here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u331	I'm gonna keep going at that plant anyway. When it came, such an ugly political compromise was reached, or a bow was put around it. That was: well, he gets a permit despite being right on the Wadden Sea, but then he has to contribute for ten years to nature restoration on Schiermonnikoog. They don't do that anymore. But what happens on Schiermonnikoog? There are seven farmers there. They're often cited. They have already done a lot and they now see on a map that they need to do more. The power station that should never have been there does not have to do anything now and, because these ten years have passed, also does not contribute to the restoration of nature. This is almost impossible to explain, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u332	This is why all sectors should contribute proportionally, including industry. We'll bet on that. On July 1, 2023, we set all goals inescapable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u333	No, Mr. Chairman. I want to be left with interruptions, and we're not gonna get anywhere with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u334	It is good that the Minister has just said that the word 'directive' can also be read as 'indicative'. Thus the word "directive" has been replaced by "indicative" with that card and that is a very important nuance. The NO approach is still pending. I regret that. There will be no separate approach for ammonia from industry. That's what the thesis is about: provinces can bring that into their process. Of course, it would have been useful if it had been signed into the map, but that has already been debated. My question is this. At the CPB or other knowledge institutes, it is very common to no longer communicate in point estimates, but in bandwidths, no longer in one scenario, but in multiple scenarios. This is where we get one map that is just policy starting points. In the start note of the NPLG it says: we now assume generic 12 kilotons, but it can become more and then we adapt it. It would have been nice if we had been told what it would mean if it had been 20. Fortunately, we have received a nice and good answer from the Minister to questions about this. But that's all noise that started after June 10th. It was preventable. I continue to agree with the Minister that this is going to be a heavy blow, because 50% and 74% are clear. But this is noise. We need to fix the roof right now while it's raining. We could have foreseen that in the front. Why is there no clearer communication on these policy points and the sensitivity of those policy points?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u335	I have tried in all sincerity to explain and explain this at the press conference and the presentation of the National Programme for the Rural Region. I have tried sincerely in all the interviews that I was allowed to give to the media to always stress that it is a starting point, that it is indicative, that I send on the sum of 50% on 1 July 2023 inescapablely established and that it is a process that we are going to do together with the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u336	That's clear. I heard that too, but I do not call on the Minister to do so. I am addressing her on the policy front. This is not a value-free card. There are a number of policy points underneath. It's not just a model result. There are basic principles and the results are extremely sensitive to the starting points. Are you assuming 12 kilotons of generic or 20? Are you assuming an area classification such as Erisman has provided, that 78 areas according to the Cultural Heritage Agency, or are you assuming this detail? Are you taking ammonia emissions from the industry on the map, yes or no? These are all sensitivities and they are already working through questions and answers and through such a briefing from the RIVM. It would have been nice, including a manual like: okay, you are green, but that does not mean that all nature-inclusive dairy farms of Schiermonnikoog should disappear. This is all noise that has arisen after this one card, despite indeed the words of the minister: it is indicative, it is a starting point, et cetera. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u337	Yeah, and there's gonna be a lot of noise. That's the honest story, too, because this card is gonna keep developing. There are policy points in it. That 12 kiloton generic is based on the structural package. In the conversation I have with the provinces, we are talking about the 12 kilotons in the structural package, and we also have to look at the choices we had to make in the spring note, which also affect the fund. We're also gonna look at normalization. I know the provinces' desire to lift that 12 kilotons, so that we can have a fairer distribution between territories, the task for the provinces, and the Empire. I'm now analysing what it means when you get off that 12 kiloton base, that's what I'm calling it, to 16, 18 or 20 kilotons. The area-based approach chosen by the coalition comes in terms of efficiency, I find it terrible to say, because it sounds so businesslike, but very positive. Because the more generic you do, the percentage that makes the area-oriented directional decrease is and remains very limited. You also see the following: in those 12% areas, those light blue areas, the generic areas, you make the challenge greater, while in those areas it is relatively less effective in areas where the percentages are hugely high. These are considerations that I want to be able to make carefully with the Chamber, but also with the provinces. This is exactly what we're going to do with each other next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u338	This is also about industry. I understand that the Minister says: that is generic; the provinces are still coming. But I want to ask her what she's doing in the meantime, because we know that thousands of industrial companies probably don't have a license. That does not surprise me, because there has been very moderate government enforcement throughout nature conservation policy, both in agriculture and in industry. Anyway, farmers see that map and there's a plan for it. We still have to wait for a plan for the industry. I can't imagine the Minister passing through that provinces haven't maintained and thousands of companies may not have a natural permit. Nor can I imagine that in the meantime the Minister has allowed Tata Steel, for example, to achieve much more nitrogen emissions than it does now. That's that famous latent space. I wonder how the Minister will deal with this in the meantime, because that seems to me to be unsellable and, indeed, something she might be able to deal with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u339	I understand that, but I can't give a satisfactory answer to this. I'm sorry to hear that. I will immediately undertake to discuss this with colleagues, including the licensing in industry. Here's to it. Of course, we work as one government. My assignment is the National Programme Rural Area, fund manager for the transition fund rural area focused on nitrogen emissions in the agricultural sector. In doing so, I will include the climate objectives in the National Programme for Rural Areas, because we are steering on water, climate and nitrogen. I do that a little for Mr Jetten, I say. Mr Jetten is really working on the climate projections. He's taking the NO part. I'm not doing this to push something off, because we really work as one government and we work well together, but this is how we work. I would like to point out that I will discuss this with Mr Jetten in the very near future. I agree in the context of latent space, but Mrs Ouwehand knows that we really do not want to continue to add a lot at the expense of nature, while the objectives really go the other way. I come back to this specifically for the agricultural sector with an approach in the context of authorisation. I will really take up this point in relation to industry with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u340	Fine. Thanks for the commitment. Can the Minister say when the Chamber will be informed about this, for any follow-up pressure from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u341	No, I can't. I really need to discuss this with colleague Jetten. I can promise that I will take it with me if we come up with the directional targets for other sectors, industry and transport at the end of this year or early January. I'll take this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u342	I sometimes have the impression that we are in the process of building up a planned economy. I've only seen planned economies fail. That is why I ask you whether you are firmly convinced that less 50% of emissions will be feasible by 2030 or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u343	Yeah, that's feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u344	Then I have the next question. It's about the political timetable, if I may call it that. You come with directional targets. 15 March next year are the elections for the Provincial States. This is going to be the theme. On July 1st you want to come with directional goals. All I can tell you is that this is going to be a referendum on your politics. I'm afraid if that referendum comes, you're gonna lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u345	But that would mean, I say to Mr Eppink, that I look at the electorate and the electorate, rather than taking responsibility for the choices that have to be made for the Netherlands. I have chosen this course to make choices that I am absolutely convinced are necessary for the Netherlands. Then it's up to me, us, to explain that to everyone. I think that's a duty anyway. I also see it as my duty to explain to everyone why we have to make these choices. If I let my work be guided by what a supporter of it thinks, that's not the way I want to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u346	You are in the process of ruling against the majority in the countryside. I wish you every success in the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u347	I'll take a look at Mr. Klaver. He's ready to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u348	I have a comment and a question. That comment is more addressed to colleagues. I remember debates on this subject, not only with this minister but also with her predecessor, in which we wanted lists of peak loaders. We said it would be useful if there were tickets that made it clear how big the task was. They are now there, and now the Minister is criticised for not communicating properly. I'd like to say calm down. In my view, the Minister has communicated neatly about what this card is, namely that it is indicative targets. We have asked for this as a chamber ourselves. That was the point I wanted to make. Then hopefully we can close that issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u349	The Minister nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u350	Secondly, I do not think the answer on NO is entirely satisfactory. Before I get the same answer as what has been given for 15 minutes: my point is not that it should have come at the same time. I understand there's a difference in time. It will be up to me, but I do not understand the Minister's explanation when she says: we look only at a blanket at NO. Of course, that is not entirely right. The emissions of mobility, for example, do indeed have very large local effects. So I still don't understand what she's gonna come up with in January. Mrs Ouwehand just asked in the debate for a letter to get a little more insight. Then what do you come up with in January? What does that mean? So what do you charge for mobility and what do you charge for industry? I would really like to receive that in the short term. Then we'll wait until January. This is about getting insight into what you're going to gain. Because to be honest, even after all your answers, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u351	I'd like to take advantage of that. Then I can prepare this well with Mr Jetten and share it with your Chamber. That's exactly the dilemma. For example, the cars. From 2030 we sell electric cars. Then what does that do and how much is needed? This is exactly the kind of analysis we want to make. I would like to return to that in a letter in the short term, together with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u352	Then I'm glad I didn't get it all wrong, because this is what the crux is all about and what it's all about. I believe that the Chamber should be involved in the choices that are being made, because those choices matter. They're not just objectivable choices, but there are choices behind them. It's nice to have the Chamber involved. Can I get an estimate of the deadline for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u353	Is that okay after the summer? I find that hard to estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u354	You can also come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u355	I'll get back to you in the second term. I think that's a good suggestion. Then I can discuss what is realistic and feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u356	Sure. Let me just say that after the summer I feel very healthy for everyone. I'd love to have it for Prince's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u357	Then the Minister will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u358	I have no comment in the direction of the Minister, but in the direction of Mr Klaver. He is addressing me and a number of my colleagues on the questions we have about the maps that have been presented. We are not asking these questions to criticize the Minister incredibly, but because there are a lot of concerns among people who are wondering what those cards with those percentages mean for the future of their business, for them or for their children. I think it is very important that we hold a debate at the moment and ask the Minister about the status of these cards. How are we supposed to interpret it? How are we supposed to read it? Is that a concrete plate, which means a new spatial planning exercise for the rest of the country? Or is this a starting point that allows the provinces to look for tailor-made solutions in those areas, as the Minister has indeed reassured us? It is good and important to name and underline this here during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u359	I think you want to debate with each other again, not with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u360	Mr President, very briefly. These questions can all be asked. I respond to this because, after this debate, I get the impression that responsibility for the whole communication is being placed with this minister. That's not true. That's what we're all responsible for here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u361	I give the floor to the Minister to resume her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u362	My cube structure is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u363	Ruined?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u364	It doesn't matter. Given the time, quite a lot of answers have been given in secret regarding the ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u365	Do you want to tell us what topic you are going to discuss?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u366	I'm just gonna browse through this just in case. This pile was all about the ticket. I just want to make sure I don't skip any questions. I'm just working on that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u367	Take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u368	Yes, I have not yet dealt with something, namely cross-border cooperation. It's a good thing I went through it for a while. The border. Nitrogen doesn't stop at the border. That is why I work together with Germany, but also with Belgium, in tackling nitrogen. We have very intensive contact with Flanders, to coordinate the approach of Flanders and the Netherlands. We also work together on a number of pilots. Last week I went to see my colleague Demir in Flanders. We have concluded together that we need to turn that nitrogen tap off at the same time and at the same time we need to work on the restoration of nature in those border areas, otherwise it will be suboptimal. But I also insist that we work constructively and well with our German counterparts. We are already working together at the level of knowledge and information exchange. I also speak to my German colleagues this summer. How do we get policies that are equal on both sides? All EU Member States, like the Netherlands, must comply with the rules resulting from the EU Birds and Habitats Directives. It is up to the EU Member States themselves to draw up policies and implement them. The Netherlands and Germany have made other choices. That is why equal policies are not on the table either. The Netherlands and Germany have independent policies and thus also have different border effects. However, there is also an increasing debate in Germany on current policies and their sustainability in achieving conservation objectives for nature. Apart from that, I am primarily responsible for fulfilling the international obligations we are facing in the Netherlands. This is not only in the area of nitrogen, but also in that of climate and water in the National Programme for Rural Areas. Then a question has been asked by Mrs Beckerman about other goals that we want to achieve, with regard to zoonoses, animal diseases and so on. In the National Programme Rural Area, we focus on the integrated area-oriented approach aimed at nitrogen, water, climate and nature. Of course, we're looking for coherence. Other tasks, such as zoonoses and animal diseases, can be taken into account. That's what the provinces can do. We also point out to them those opportunities of connection, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u369	I'll take a look at Mr. Boswijk. He wanted to ask a question earlier. Then Mr Van Haga and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u370	This is still about the ticket, excuse me. It's about the reaction of the banks that are now saying, "Oh, we've decided not to finance anything anymore." That card was given a certain status after all. It has quite a big impact, certainly until 1 July of course. What is the Minister prepared to do? Will it, in consultation with the banks, keep this plea there and get funding going again? Despite the fact that the map is directional, and despite that customization is possible, it has practically a lot of impact in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u371	Yes. I have just listened very carefully, in the first term of the Chamber. I also read the newspaper article. I share the concern, especially when I look at that bailout. Surely it cannot be that we invest a great deal of money in schemes and that can be transferred directly to the banks if farmers want to quit voluntarily? I really see that as an action point. Mr Staghouwer is thus going further on this issue, including from the broader perspective in terms of financing, income and the role of the financial sector in this regard. I'm saying this without wanting to shove it off, but that's how we divided it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u372	I didn't quite realize exactly how the cubes work. This should probably have been asked at the introduction, but I have two questions about the introduction. Firstly, I have a question about the 50% reduction in nitrogen emissions in agriculture. I think that is a very round figure, so I wonder if the Minister can explain exactly how we reach that 50%. We also need to bring 74% of the areas below the critical deposition value. That seems like a bit of a double goal. Perhaps the Minister could shed her light on that too for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u373	We have a problem in the Netherlands. We have a big problem. We ran into a rock-hard wall in 2019. We can no longer grant permits because we must be able to demonstrate that we do not allow nature to deteriorate further. The only way to prove that is nitrogen reduction. That's the only way. This means that we must have objectives that are legally inescapable before we can take the step towards licensing at all. That's not even enough. The judge's ready to go. You have to show it to me. You really need to emit less nitrogen and actually restore nature. That is what these objectives are based on. You have to emit 50% less nitrogen. You need to restore nature and get 74% of the area below the critical deposition value before you really get the permit back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u374	Of course, this should not count as a new interruption, because I have not yet heard an answer. Again, I'd like to know exactly how we got that 50%. That's a round number and round numbers are just suspicious for most techs. 'Cause, yeah, where'd you get that? If that's really calculated, I'd like to hear it. My second question was the following. 74% of the areas must come under the WFD. That seems like a double target. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u375	No, that is not a double objective, in the sense that 50% less nitrogen emissions is the task of simply restoring space and 74% of the areas under the KDW are the indicator that indicates whether nature is still able to recover. But we're sending in the Birds and Habitats Directives. We send on the broad nature goals. With the KDW alone, we're failing ourselves. That 50% round number is my job under the coalition agreement. I know it's all been calculated, including whether it's feasible. The 74% below the critical deposition value combined with 50% less nitrogen emissions is also feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u376	I understand that the Minister, who is 50%, who has been taken from the sky and perhaps has been calculated somewhere, does not understand himself, but has just been handed over on a platter and has run with it. I find it hard to imagine, but that's just the way it is. I don't think I'm gonna get a better answer. Then I have one last question. Professor Dr Han Lindeboom states that even if all farmers disappear from the Netherlands, we are not yet achieving our legal nitrogen standards. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u377	This is about balance, a balance between nature and the economy. It's a balance sheet issue. We need to emit less nitrogen to restore nature. Nitrogen is one of the most important pressures on nature. So we need to reduce nitrogen emissions. We really need to show that in order to be able to restore nature and show to the judge that we are actually doing it, so that we can get the permit back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u378	I think this is a very incomprehensible answer. So it's about balance. Even if you let all farmers from the Netherlands leave, we still do not meet this legal standard. Then I would say: look for other solutions where you get a kind of win-win situation, where the farmers can stay through all kinds of innovation. You'll take plenty of time for that. But it cannot be that we have imposed a legal standard, we are going to bully farmers out of the country and then not meet our own nitrogen standards. That's the madness at the top, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u379	We're going to make it, with a very large agricultural sector with a future perspective. The frame that is being placed here, as if we were sweeping the whole of the Netherlands, sweeping the entire agricultural sector off the map, is not true. There is a lot of perspective for a lot of farmers. One part of achieving the goals is innovation and expansion. With more balance on nature and economy, this is feasible. And yes, not everything can be in any place. In particular, this very intensive livestock farming close to Natura 2000 sites is problematic. There, too, the impact will be greatest. But for many areas in the Netherlands there is a lot of future for a lot of farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u380	Finally. I conclude that Professor Han Lindeboom's claim is simply correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u381	You're referring to a podcast, I think. I didn't hear that whole podcast. I find it complicated to respond to this. These are calculated targets. It's feasible. At the same time, there is something going on here, and I am particularly against it, as if we were to wipe the whole agricultural sector off the map. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u382	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt. He just had another question, but I think that Mr Edgar Mulder would like to ask another question on this last issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u383	I regret that the Minister seems to deny science, but if she does not see the podcast or whatever it was as a source, just the following. The Planning Office for the Environment has not stated to my friends that if you would not only remove all the farmers, but also all the industry from an area, all the houses, all the people and all the animals, we will not yet reach the standards you set. How can your objective be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u384	50% reduction in nitrogen emissions is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u385	Once again, if the Planning Bureau says that even if you remove everything and everyone from those areas, all cars, all roads, all houses, all people, all animals, everything we do not yet achieve those values, how can that be feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u386	We have 74% of the areas under the KDW, and not 100% of the areas. There may be a number of areas where this is not feasible. For that we have an ecological authority, precisely to zoom in in those areas to see what can be done. I fully agree that it would not be feasible for 100% of the areas in the Netherlands to fall below that critical deposition value. But it's 74% related to 50% less nitrogen emissions. This means that there can always be areas in the Netherlands where the KDW is not feasible. That's where we're gonna do customization. That's where we're gonna find out exactly what's going on. For this we have an independent ecological authority, which can determine what can be done there. But then we send on targets. What matters to me is that we also have to look together to see how we are really going to recover and improve nature. That is a task in itself. We can see that completely apart from the KDW, because we have a lot more nature objectives than just that KDW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u387	That may be all, but once again, the Minister's friends said so themselves in a technical briefing, in which we were all present. The reason that these values are exceeded is because about 30%, 40% of nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands come from abroad. So if you really want to meet those standards, you will also have to deport 3 million Germans. I don't know if they like it that much there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u388	Wow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u389	Not "wow." I've told you that three times. Mr. Chairman. She shouldn't play games, she should just answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u390	Nounounou, that's not a very pleasant term either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u391	We don't deport farmers here. I really think this... well, yeah, sorry, I think it's weird. This is exactly why...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u392	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u393	I'm staying...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u394	If the minister doesn't control her dust, she's always gonna do this kind of weird stuff. Exactly this discussion we have had several times. I'm not saying you have to deport Germans. But if you say that the values can only be obtained if there is no more nitrogen from abroad, that means that you also have to remove everything and everyone in Germany. Of course, that's total crazy. If that is total madness, then you should not define it as a policy. Then you just have to say: it is not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u395	It is feasible to get 74% of our natural area below that KDW. And yes, 30% of our deposition comes from abroad. And yes, we export much more. That's exactly why we're working with Flanders, that we're working with Germany. Germany is now also working on nitrogen and natural recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u396	Mrs Van der Plas, do you have a question on the same point? I must avoid leaving Mr Omtzigt on hold for a very long time. It seems to me appropriate to leave Mr Omtzigt to speak first. Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u397	I'll be back on the border. We all have a European mission, but at the border it leads to poignant cases. Germany is not in the process of taking measures as the Netherlands does: not vaguely. In Flanders it goes in that direction. This means that, along the entire border, from Groningen to Maastricht, we are dealing with farmers who look out for areas on the other side of the border where stables can be doubled. And the emissions from these stables will also end up directly in the Dutch Natura 2000 sites. In this way, a huge nitrogen source will also be created. None of that matters, while farmers have to stop on the Dutch side of the border. That's what we're talking about. What does the Minister say to the farmers who live on that border, a border that is 350 kilometres long?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u398	That that is terrible and that it is almost inexplicable, but that it is the situation we are in. I will say that the Netherlands has made agreements with Europe and that we have to abide by those agreements. We should have done that a long time ago, with which we might have been able to prevent this from happening. At the same time, it is a reason and an encouragement to cooperate with Germany, especially in those border areas. We need to see how we can export and import less. We export and import nitrogen to each other now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u399	If the Minister himself is almost unable to explain the policy, why should I try again? This can't be explained at the border. And it leads to a huge amount of frustration. It does mean that people are going to live on the other side of the border. It also means that we have a totally new frontier in Europe in about the only policy area where you would think you should harmonise it somewhat. We already know it at the nuclear power plants. Those nuclear power plants are always at the border. Yeah, bye-bye, they're always at the border. If they're at the border, you've got half your effects neatly externalized. So I live at the border near Enschede with my iodine pills. But of course the Germans put a nuclear power plant there. And now we're gonna do the same thing with the nitrogen, the only thing we should just harmonise a little bit. How can we let this go on like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u400	Because we don't have a choice. We have made these agreements as a Member State of the Netherlands. This is a terrible picture; I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt. In the imagery, this is terrible. You'll live there, and on the other side of the border you can. This is exactly why I want to work with Germany, with all the counterparts there, to see how we can handle this and how we don't move the problem. But in the end, all Member States across Europe have to comply with the same VHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u401	This isn't going anywhere. At the Betuwe line we are still waiting for the third track, 25 years after that line was built. So if you're gonna talk to the Germans now, I know what's going on: nothing's gonna happen. This will be an open wound, I tell you. This is gonna be an open wound. The second point. In the plans I see 38% reduction abroad. What's that percentage based on? Is that what they're gonna get in Germany? And if they don't, do we suddenly get another job at the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u402	I told you, I'm going to talk to Germany. 'Cause I get the feeling. Every farmer in the border area thinks, "Oh, dear, on the other side of the border you can do it." I would add that I understand the same feeling of people living on the border between Gelderland and Overijssel. Because of this system approach and through provincial differences, we see boundaries there too. So that fine tunes still has to be done there. But as the Netherlands, as a Member State, we have made agreements with Europe, and we have to abide by them. At the same time, we are dealing with all the Member States in Europe, the VHR and European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u403	That we have implemented differently again. But I'm asking another question. We're not gonna get out of this anyway. Those border effects continue to exist, and that is going to be very painful. I also saw that 38% less nitrogen is expected from Germany. What is that based on, and what happens if it isn't? That's not exactly a theoretical scenario, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u404	The exact justification of that 38% is very close. I'd like to return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u405	Now my nugget breaks. This is the only argument we're asking for. We should probably wait until January before we know what is happening to industry and to traffic. For the rest of the world, we've imported 38%, but it's not gonna work. And that was before Germany started the coal plants again. They also have a little problem with the energy, and we have a little understanding for that. How are we going to make a plan in which we put an exact figure for Germany, and a fairly high figure? And if they don't make it, can we go in even harder at the border?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u406	I'm just saying I want to sort this out specifically, so I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u407	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas, but I don't see her right now. I shall then give the floor to Mr Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u408	Mr Omtzigt is right to make a point. With border regions, you have always fallen on borders, and they are by definition poignant. But there are two motions, one of which is my hand, quite recently, which have been supported by Parliament. It says: considering that in some areas it is impossible to comply with the KDW, and that is due, among other things, to nitrogen from abroad. It asked for customization there, or other measures such as hydrology, or with that ecological authority. Otherwise, the only option is to make the painful decision to wipe out areas. I share Mr Omtzig's point that this cannot be the intention. I assume that there is the possibility of tailor-made work in these border areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u409	It is precisely for this reason that we opt for customization in the border regions. That is exactly what I have coordinated and communicated with the provinces, precisely for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u410	Then I look at Mrs Van der Plas and then Mr Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u411	Sorry, I just got an urgent message from an associate. I just wanted to look at these measures for industry, aviation and traffic. It's not known yet. It's gonna happen. I was curious to see how these measures will be decided in the near future. Based on what? The livestock sector looks at farm data from 2018. Will data from 2018 also be used in aviation, traffic and industry? Or are current data used? A lot of companies, for example, do not work with a nature conservation law permit. Do they have any? Then how do we know how much nitrogen they emit? I have once again tabled a motion that all industries should actually record how much nitrogen they emit, because a lot of companies are allowed to record it themselves. I am curious about the process, how it is calculated, based on which models, on which year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u412	We're gonna ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u413	Yeah, I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u414	I just promised a letter in which we are going to go into exactly this. In second term, I will return to the date on which we send it. I just promised that to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u415	Yeah, but I'm not asking for a date letter, I'm asking for a letter with the trial, how they look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u416	That's what's in that letter that was promised about the trial. And when that letter comes, the Minister will return to that in the second term. It's about that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u417	Okay, clear. But then not the process in the sense of "so and so we're gonna do it." There's probably a percentage coming out, but how is that percentage of nitrogen reduction calculated? How should this be done? What exactly is this based on, on what models, on what emissions, on what figures, on what years? That's what I'd like to know. If that can be included in the letter, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u418	I see the Minister nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u419	That's exactly the point. I see this as an intermediate step towards achieving the guiding objectives for the other sectors at the end of this year/beginning of 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u420	Then I also had a question about maintaining nature and the way we do it now. We simply have to abide by certain guidelines. These directives were laid down years ago: this plant and all these animals must be maintained. It is also based on the Birds and Habitats Directives. I don't know the exact year, but from my mind I say it's a few decades... Mrs Ouwehand! What are you saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u421	10 June 1992.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u422	She's got the exact date. Well, fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u423	10 June 1992. Thanks to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u424	Oh, yeah! 1992. That's right. A few decades, I said. They're 30 years old. My question is, how long do we keep doing that? Do people have to comply with the 1992 directives in 2430? Or 2122? How long are we gonna keep doing that? Will there be a moment when we say: it's not that real anymore; we have 25 million people in the Netherlands, more cars and more aircraft; we have almost no farmers anymore? Is that real? Is that gonna end? 'Cause if it doesn't end, I'm gonna see it hard for our country, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u425	We have agreed in Europe that there should be no deterioration. That's the statute of limitations. This determines the reference value by area. It did indeed come into being when European protection came into force. The prohibition on deterioration therefore applies to that reference date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u426	Does no one in all Cabinets, all over Europe, all ministers, wonder if we are going to live up to that forever? Shouldn't there be a moment when we say: we just need to rethink it? In the last 30 years, of course, a lot has happened in the development of the Netherlands. Or does everyone assume that we are going to keep the Birds and Habitats Directives of 10 June 1992 for eternity? That's unthinkable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u427	The VHR can be adjusted if you establish types or species that you need to protect after the reference date. In this sense, the VHR can therefore be adapted. I noticed this in the first period of this debate. Travelling to Brussels at the moment, with any question about nature, nature conservation, Natura 2000, the Birds and Habitats Directive or whatever, is an unachievable path. I really want to be very honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u428	Well... I'm sorry, but in Europe, several countries go to Brussels to ask questions. I hear that we are the only country that keeps saying: going to Brussels is really not possible, because they're just not going to do anything there. That's just not true. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is maar net welke inzet je pleegt.]] I think Macron often sits at the table to arrange things for farmers or to arrange for his own country. I don't understand why you can't do that. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u429	The answer's just no. We're the worst little boy in the class all over Europe. We dangle at the bottom of the lists when it comes to the state of our nature. When I'm in Brussels asking for some coulance in any area, the only thing I'm getting back is: do your homework; show that you're releasing less nitrogen, show that after all these 20, 30 years, you're finally going to really restore nature. That's what I get back, and then we'll talk. Here's the message. And I get that. I myself sometimes find it very frustrating that this is the message, but it is. And I see Mr Staghouwer fighting for derogation. We have seen it with nitrate: Europe does not give us any more. And I get it, because we haven't lived up to those commitments for 20, 30 years. At this point, we're really the worst boy in the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u430	The Minister responds to something I'm not talking about at all. The Minister states that the Birds and Habitats Directives could perhaps be amended if plants or animals settle here after that directive. My specific question to the Minister is: is there no one in Europe who thinks of 'yes, that 10 June 1992, we must do something about it at some point, because you cannot have the 1992 rules in 2500'? My question is: do anyone think about it; shall we talk about it in Europe, how long are we going to do it; will it not be time for a review, perhaps for the whole of Europe? And apart from that, that period after 10 June 1992 has already established new plants, new animals have already settled here. Only, they do not count now, because they are not included in the Birds and Habitats Directives. There are already wild orchids in Natura 2000 sites in Drenthe. They are not counted as nature at all, because in 1992 they were not there yet. They are already there, so I would say: hey, there are already new plant species, there are already new species that have settled here; perhaps we should look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u431	What I would like to say and explain to Mrs van der Plas is that we cannot afford to discuss the luxury of anything at all in Brussels on this point. Let us first do our homework, and just stick to the commitments we made when we said at European level: we are going to protect nature together. And we established this in the late 1980s, in the early 1990s, when we made those agreements. Let us stick to these agreements and get our homework in order before we can afford the luxury of having conversations like this in Europe. 'Cause that's just the hardest reality. It's not a nice message, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u432	Well, I notice here that the Netherlands is just being chased away by the EU like a scared child, a scared child. I'm very worried about that. The Netherlands is a sovereign country; you can just come up with your own things. And I hear the Minister say: we are not even afraid to go to Brussels, because we are getting a slap on the wrists of the Commissioner, and we are not going to do that. Well, I'm sorry... We are just a country of our own, and we can just make our own regulations; Europe can do that. Other countries do, too. We can simply denounce things in Europe. And, I mean, it's really great that everything's gonna be European, but it's just possible. And I hear here literally, fortunately, finally, after very long answers, that the Netherlands does not want to, because they are just afraid, afraid; afraid of the Commissioner, afraid of Europe, afraid of getting a hit on the hand. Just go and keep that back straight. There are going to be big consequences of this in the Netherlands, for a lot of people. Not only for farmers, also for the landscape, but also for employment, there is going to be a great deal of change here in terms of social cohesion. I ask the Minister to stand up for that. And then we'll get a slap on the wrist, but stand up for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u433	Mr. Chairman. There's no frightened minister here. But I note that we, as the Netherlands ourselves, have not kept to the agreements for 20 or 30 years; that we are dangling at the bottom of the lists when it comes to the state of nature at European level. I see a colleague fighting for a derogation. Those are not easy negotiating paths. And that has everything to do with the fact that Europe does not like the Netherlands. That's what this is about. And that is not something about fear, and it is not something about not being able to travel to Brussels. I am speaking to the Commissioner, I am speaking to Parliament, but we are no longer allowed to do so. That's a tough reality. I also had to swallow when I walked into this wall. But the wall that has been erected here has not been put down by Europe. The wall that was put down here, that was done on 29 May 2019, when the judge said: The Netherlands, actually restoring nature, actually emit less nitrogen; and if you do, you can grant permits to build houses again, to work on our water safety, to make the industry more sustainable. All those things we need permits for, we can't do because we're not fixing that nature. That is the wall that was erected on 29 May 2019. Europe has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u434	The question was: can you get an exception in Europe? That exception will get a lot of countries. If France has spent too much money again, they will go to Brussels and some sort of rule will be changed. In the last month alone, Poland has set VAT at 0%. They just do. Hungary has been granted an exception for Russia's oil boycott. That's not because they're gonna ask, "Sir, can I have this or that?" That's because there's someone there who loves his own country with the fist on the table. She says, "You know what? If I don't get this from you, if you don't give me this, I'll veto Ukraine or any other accession."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u435	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u436	So they're gonna get down on their knees. But you and your cabinet don't want to do that. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u437	The Minister. It's kind of the same question, so I don't know if the Minister's gonna give me another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u438	I asked the same question, but with three examples where it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u439	I'm going to repeat myself. I'm not going to Europe like a scared little mouse. Mr Staghouwer does not go to Europe like a scared sparrow. It is fighting for a derogation, for example. What you see is that we are no longer given it on this subject. But I'd like to add something. Imagine if we did not deliver on this point, that we in the Netherlands would say that we are not going to restore nature, that we are not going to emit less nitrogen. What if we just wouldn't? Then Europe immediately follows an infringement procedure, because the border has been reached. That's a message I didn't want to hear at first, but it's how it is. I believe that we are also obliged to ourselves, in this house, but also in the Netherlands, that after all these years we have let it go as the Netherlands ourselves, we also have the nerve to say: it is right, because we have not done well, so we are going to solve the problem and then we are going to travel to Brussels again to ask for things within this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u440	I think that anyone here in the room who is just thinking soberly will understand that an exception that Hungary is getting for an oil boycott of Russia is a little more important than the fact that we are re-introducing the hive on the Sallandse Heuvelrug. So they're incomparable, but you have to want to be a cabinet. You gotta have guts. You gotta put your fist on the table there. You stand for the Netherlands and for the farmers. That's not gonna happen, and that's why you're coming back with the story that they won't let us. It doesn't make any sense; it doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u441	I'm not gonna get so angry, but maybe I can speak as an experienced expert. I worked in the European Commission for seven years and I served in the cabinet with Mr Bolkestein. It happened very often that Heads of Government called to make a point: that is what we want. You've done the same. Often they managed to do that. Especially when the Deutsche Bundeskanzler is on the phone, you have to listen twice. What you have to do is not play it through you, but through the Prime Minister. You should not forget that the Netherlands is the largest net contributor in the European Union in proportion. Then you've got something in your hands. Europe wants more and more money on more and more fronts. Then, at some point, you can go to the President of the European Commission and say: we have a big problem and we are happy to cooperate, but we would like to see this resolved. Then it's chefsache, and then buttons are cut. That's what you should do. You have to dare and if our Prime Minister dares, I doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u442	I didn't hear a question. Even if you made this chefsache, it's just a no-go. I am going to repeat myself, but we have European law, we have national law and we have one thing to do. That's restoring nature and releasing less nitrogen. We don't have a choice in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u443	It may be that you don't dare or don't want it, but it's simply that if you go back to Brussels as a choirboy, you'll return as a choirboy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u444	Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u445	What I find funny is that the parties that are now running away with former Secretary of State for Agriculture, or then called Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation, Henk Bleker, who is now popular in those circles, is being dismissed as a choir boy, like a scared bird, because he has tried exactly this. He tried this and had to drown in 2011. "Can we change it?" "No." I do have an active memory of that, other people might be a little less. I have a question for the Minister. I just want to make sure I got it right. I just heard her say that the provinces can include zoonoses in the nitrogen approach, but they cannot do that either. I wonder if it's wise. Maybe I didn't hear it right. I think you should do it integrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u446	This is what Mr Staghouwer will come back to from Agriculture. We really work together here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u447	But have I heard correctly that it is optional, or is Mr Staghouwer going to confirm it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u448	That's what Minister Staghouwer's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u449	I would also like to say why I know so well why the Birds and Habitats Directives entered into force on 10 June 1992. That was the day I was 16 years old. So instead of a moped, I got the European Nature Protection Act. That's how it all happened. I would also like to give the Minister the following. That Birds and Habitats directive stands. Because the Netherlands has not complied with this, we are indeed in these problems now. But the Netherlands simply had good nature policy. We've all broken it down. That's in relation to those nature goals we need to meet right now. So we now see whole discussions about whether or not we should, that one plant, and about that critical deposition value. That all depends on the political unwillingness there was to keep Dutch nature policy in order. We wouldn't have cut off the main ecological structure. Then there wasn't so much savings on nature. All this happened in the Rutte I cabinet. Then nature would simply have been better off. We wouldn't have had so many problems right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u450	This is precisely the reason why I have ambition not only in the field of nature inclusiveness, but also in that basic quality of nature. I think that what binds us all here in this house is getting away from that micromanagement at hexagon level, at plant level, at field level, only if you have a nature with a basic quality that stands, that is resilient and that can take a hit. Then we are failing ourselves if we are only looking at protecting Natura 2000 sites because we have to. Then we have to look at how we're gonna lay that solid base, so we have a buffer, a layer of fat on the skin, and that nature is there. It's exactly this. The nitrogen bath is so full now and nature is now so vulnerable because of that decline. That's exactly why we ended up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u451	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u452	Mrs van der Plas asked whether we could share an estimate of the number of farmers that are going to stop through this policy. I would like to stress that with this policy it is not an end in itself to control the number of farmers. The directional targets in the NPLG start note do not provide any guidance on how to achieve the nitrogen reduction. In the area processes, the provinces with knowledge and expertise of the area together with the partners will identify the measures to be taken in which area. And then you can put a puzzle and then it's more clear which agricultural entrepreneurs can change their business operations, move their business or indeed terminate their business voluntarily. We send for less nitrogen emissions, not the number of farmers. Is it really going to happen now, Mr Thijssen asked. Mr Thijssen spoke of shuffling stables. I do see the application of innovative emission reduction systems as a way of reducing emissions. I am aware that there is a discussion about the operation of these emission reducing systems. Uncertainty about the emission reduction is caused, among other things, by sometimes incorrect installation or simply by less effective use of the barn systems. After the summer, the Secretary of State of IenW will send a report to the House of Representatives on the functioning of low-emission housing systems in practice. That's exactly what this is about. When it comes to innovations aimed at reducing emissions in general, I think that innovation can be a very large key to a solution in many areas. I would add that only if we are sure that the reduction will actually take place, otherwise we will have the situation where farmers invest, get a permit, and then we will see that the reduction is less. And yes, then we sold air. Then I have the question of Mr Van Campen and Mr Boswijk about the wide range of instruments for farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u453	Do you have a question on this last point? Yeah? Mr. Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u454	I would like to ask the Minister another question about innovations, particularly with regard to the situation in Brabant. The province of Brabant has already adopted an approach in which standards of barn systems are part of the policy much earlier, in anticipation of provinces which will undoubtedly follow now. The Minister now presents an approach she chooses. In what way does it guarantee the position of the province of Brabant so that that province is not disproportionately punished for the fact that it has already started that transition and movement much earlier? Is that something she's already thinking about? How does she see this province and what has already happened there in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u455	In two ways. On the one hand, Brabant has already applied a standard, the only province in the Netherlands. We were just having a discussion about the basic path of 12 kilotons generic and raising it. Then you'll tell Brabant a different story. But that feeling of level playing field lives with many provinces: just do it right away. That's what we're looking at, partly on the spring note. That's what we're really working on right now. It can't be that that's bothering you. That's really the conversation we're having within the IPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u456	Mr Boswijk is still on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u457	It is good to hear that innovation is an important and serious part of the reductions. This will provide an opportunity for a large number of regional processes. But I'm still a little worried. We have the Rav systematiek and we know that a number of innovations are a bit under threat there. This is, of course, terrible for farmers who still have to carry out a number of innovations to this day, while the ultimate effectiveness is being questioned. As a result, some provinces say: as a precaution for legal claims, we do not want to look at a Rav systematiek at all. Does the Minister think it would be wise to temporarily suspend innovations with doubts and to make available innovations which are actually working well and which have been approved by the WUR separately? Now a few innovations that don't do well infect the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u458	I hear this signal more often, including from farmers. I spoke about the week with farmers at the Nieuwkoopse Plassen who also indicated: it is precisely this that is hindering us now. There's a lawsuit going on right now, and I'm waiting for it. After the summer, I will come to the Chamber with a broader letter on the granting of permission, which is part of it. I just want to make the analysis and wait for the statements so that I can come to the Chamber in one go with a good integral story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u459	Okay. Then we'll wait and see. However, I would like to add that some of the processes in the area have already begun. If we know exactly which way it's going, hopefully tomorrow it'll go all the way. I'd like to mention the point that this can't take too long. If you go into an area process and the only concrete arrangement is, for example, the stopper arrangement, then you're going into that process a little impaired. We won't know what innovations can be until November. I understand that you have some points, but I sincerely hope that we will have more clarity before Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u460	To reassure you: I really take the provinces with me in everything about the granting of permission. A very large part of that is on their plate. We really do that together. But I can't send on dates of statements. In the light of wider consent, I need some statements before I can present an integral story to the Chamber when it comes to granting permission. It's not like the provinces are totally dependent from that moment on. We are already working together on this and I will involve the provinces fully in the preparation towards that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u461	Would it be an idea for you, perhaps confidentially, to keep us actively informed? It's very important to me and my people. I will, of course, deal with this confidentially. Moreover, there might be a plan B. Suppose there is indeed a verdict that is negative or that says that there is more research to be done. Then there will be a plan B for the innovations that we know are working. They should be available in the area processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u462	That is precisely why I would like to wait and see those statements, so that, depending on that, we can put the right story straight into the letter at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u463	Mr Thijssen, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u464	I very much agree with the Minister when she says that we haven't done our homework for 20 to 30 years and that we really need to make meters to protect our nature and take the Netherlands off the lock. I think the Minister speaks very firm words. But when I zoom out a little bit, I also hear a lot of uncertainty about what will happen next year. The map that showed how much reduction should be, is now a talk picture. That whole process with the delegates, some benevolent, some not, sometimes sounds like a talking circus. There may be exchanges between agriculture and industry, but about when and how exactly we hear more in January. We will hear this autumn about the innovative stables that may lead to reductions, but may not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u465	And your question to the Minister is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u466	I am very afraid that we are not going to achieve the goals at all, that we are busy for a year, that we are hearing a strong minister, but that on 1 July we find that we are not achieving the goals again. How do we monitor progress over the next 12 months in terms of whether this is really going to happen or if we lose another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u467	July 1, 2023 is really a deadline. That's even laid down in the law. That's exactly why I built a calibration moment into the process in January. It's in the National Programme of Rural Areas. That's to monitor whether we're on course and if not, what it takes. I see provinces, all of them, which have the ambition to solve this problem. I have a lot of contacts with them and they really have this ambition. At the moment there are a lot of questions about how, but that makes sense, because there is quite a lot. But above all, I see a great deal of ambition in getting to work on this. We're having this conversation right now, and I'm gonna help with that. That's what I told the provinces. With a reference moment in January, we are on course to really set those targets towards 1 July 2023. This does not mean that the whole approach should be 100% final, but I do want to know whether the targets per area are realistic and feasible. We'll click on them, but that'll give us some space after that to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u468	I'm also speaking to delegates. They also have the ambition to resolve this at last, because they too have their hands in their hair. I'm in contact with one of the deputys who had a conversation with six PAS detectors today about that falls for them and that he doesn't know how to legalize them. Can you say a little more about the approach you are now in favour of and the fact that we are in the process of at least a year? When are these PAS detectors gonna get legalized? When can licences be issued for innovative companies and homes? Should we wait a year for that or can we wait for it next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u469	We would all like to legalise the PAS detectors tomorrow with a positive verification. I think that's what we all want here, because it's terrible if you've just acted in good faith, you've got a license, you think you're in order, and you get that really hard message at once and you don't know it. A lot of farmers are stuck. They don't get funding. It's terrible, it's a drama. But the truth is, you have to have nitrogen space before you can legalize it. So it is a process of verification: does a farmer have the right to legalization? That's one project. The other thing is: when do we have enough room to actually take that step? I've been asking for speed dials in the provinces. I'm judging it now for 2022 and 2023 not to be lost years and to be able to create space as soon as possible to legalize those PAS detectors. At the same time, in the structural package, we have, for example, the Warm Sanitation Pig farming, which we expect to have the first space in the coming month. But here again it's area-dependent, you have to prove additionality and you really have to create that space
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u470	Yeah, that's a tough message. Whether it's gonna work next year, that's what we're gonna see. I do have one more question: what will happen on 1 July if it didn't work out? Then how do you ensure that the Netherlands can get off the lock, that nature is going to recover and that these PAS detectors are finally legalized?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u471	That's why there's this calibration moment. I'm gonna do everything I can to make it to July 1, 2023, along with the provinces. Everything's focused on that, really. Let's do this. I think 1 July 2023 is too late to see that it is not going to work. That is why I want to have a look at this in January so that we can make an assessment of whether or not this is going to work. Then we can also see if a plan B is needed, et cetera. In the next six months, together with the provinces, we will see what can be done by area. Are these the areas? Should the boundaries be wider, smaller and you name it? That's what we're gonna do now. And in January, there's a calibration moment to see if we're on course. That's the time for me to see if July 1, 2023 is under pressure or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u472	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u473	Then I'm going to... let's take a look, but I think I've really finished the block of cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u474	I heard the "cube of cheese."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u475	I said "card" block. Apologies if that's understood as "cheese." We have dealt with the block of proportionality sectors. Then I'll go to the provinces. But when I look at that, I've treated it, too. Then I'll go to the socio-economic effects, the last part in block two. At the heart of the area-based approach, we have taken into account regional and local peculiarities. We have also laid down in the law that the provinces describe the expected socio-economic impacts in the area-based approach. I am convinced that the processes of the region will only succeed if the permanent agricultural entrepreneurs have a long-term economic perspective and if the countryside and the living environment are alive. This is about broad prosperity. With the previous Cabinets, too, we are already focusing on improving broad prosperity in the region, including through regional deals. There are already 30 regional deals running. They also focus on the transition to circular agriculture, the strengthening of nature, the strengthening of the landscape and so on. Under the direction of the Minister for the Interior, we are also working with the regions on new regional deals that are going to contribute to broad prosperity. We have earmarked 900 million for this in the coalition agreement. In addition, Mr Staghouwer explained his support for farmers on the yard in the perspective letter. Those measures include advice, financing and so on. With regard to the test of the socio-economic impact, I certainly think it is important that we take these socio-economic impacts into account when achieving the targets. This impact analysis becomes part of the area plans and is therefore also really included in the National Programme for Rural Areas. Then there's the psychosocial consequences. I have already said it in my introduction: I know it is terrible news for a lot of farmers. I am aware that the challenges call for far-reaching measures. I also understand that these measures have an effect and impact on the lives of many people. At the same time, I also know that it will simply differ from one region to another in how these effects work. I think it is important that the approach takes account of both the human dimension and the psychosocial consequences. For example, I support the important initiative of LTO Noord, the Stichting Zorg om Boer and Tuinder. It is really aimed at further improving psychosocial care for agricultural entrepreneurs by reducing the gap between farmers and, for example, aid agencies. I would like to look at whether there is any possibility of financially supporting this project and, in that sense, of including it in my actions. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Koekkoek's question on the clear point of contact. We've talked about that before. Mrs Bromet once drew attention to this. I said at the time that I think all farmers should have a point of contact for all their questions. Of course, we have several counters, such as BET12, the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands and the provinces. But I also want legal and financial questions and bottlenecks to be adequately addressed within existing points of contact. That's why I've asked the new director to keep a finger on the wrist. That is the organization that we are currently organizing together with the provinces. That is to monitor, together with the provinces, that this will be streamlined and that all the questions that farmers have answered adequately and properly and, above all, will be followed up. I'm always very much of a learning approach. I just want to see how this goes. If the existing structures are really insufficient, what is needed to have a one-stop shop? Then I'm going to the block...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u476	I just want to know which block it is and then you get the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u477	That was the block of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u478	The block of nature. Mr Boswijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u479	In the first place, like many of my colleagues, I have already said that the agricultural sector is more than food and that it is also about the viability of rural areas and social cohesion. The task for which we stand... We focus very much on the nature goals. They're important. This is, of course, also in the interest of our own environment. But of course you come to a point where there can be tension with social cohesion or the socio-economic factors. I have to say that, frankly, I still find that rather vaguely defined. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is now also pointing out that provinces can certainly deviate in a well-founded way. But is there any possibility that the Minister might not be able to share with us tonight a slightly more comprehensive memo on what she herself is thinking? What factors can the delegates use to take this into account in that analysis, and when, for example, do you come to a point that you say: now those nature goals are so strict, that we have to get into it a little bit more? How does that relate to legal reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u480	Of course. I also need to deepen this conversation with the provinces themselves. Of course, they have a great role and responsibility in the whole area-based approach and how they intend to take it with them. I gave it as a frame. So if the Chamber needs more coloring of the "how" then I suggest that I first deepen it with the provinces and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u481	This remains very much within the field of the agricultural sector. I read back Den Uyl's speech as Minister of Economic Affairs in preparation for this debate when the mines had to be closed. When you look at the way that that is spoken, you see that the parallels are quite large. The same applies to the way in which Limburg was looked at at that time. We got DSM then. At that time, efforts were made to ensure that, for example, a car factory went there. There have been a number of additional impulses. That is actually my question: is there any consideration outside the agricultural sector as to what other economic development opportunities exist for rural areas? And what minister is that with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u482	That's a good question and fortunately we work together. This is precisely the core of the regional deals and the reason why we included this 900 million in the coalition agreement so that we can look at it by area. I think it is a good suggestion to go further with the provinces and also the question: what is needed? You will have to look at what is needed for each area, because of which, of course, it also depends on how many farmers can stay, in any way, and how many farmers are moved. That's so territorial that you have to look at it by area. Just like in Limburg, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u483	I didn't suggest we discuss it with the provinces. This is about economic structural policy. This is about: what's the idea? How do we deal with our space? What is the view of the government, even considering how we now look at spatial planning? You could say that this is the biggest spatial planning operation for a very long time. So what is the realm's vision of spatial planning? What economic clusters do we see? Where do we want new clusters to emerge? This is exactly something I wouldn't do bottom-up, because if you do, there will be all kinds of nice projects, but you don't really have a new economic structure that you can set up. My first question is: it is good that you are working together, but which minister is responsible for this, so who can we call on first? That's one. Two: is such a plan being worked on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u484	That's not just between me and Minister Staghouwer. I'm gonna make it even wider. We have many meetings with Hugo de Jonge and Micky Adriaans. Mr De Jonge is responsible for the entire spatial planning in the Netherlands and has a lot of ambition there. Mr De Jonge is currently in the process of stacking cards, if I may call it so disrespectful. Those are maps with structuring choices of what is happening in the Netherlands. That is a basis for us to then see what that means for each area. If you will allow me, I would like to use that gremium to address this point: how can we work together on this and develop a vision on it? This really lies to a large extent with Mr De Jonge and Mrs Adriaansens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u485	I find that problematic, because this is the recipe to leave it somewhere in between. I understand that there are a lot of rulers involved in this. It's really good that you're talking. But this is about the viability of the countryside. That's what I'm talking about specifically. There is a great deal to be said about this: we have also talked about the development of the economy. I understand that there are many ministers involved, but I ask this simple question: which one of these two... As far as I am concerned, we can choose between these two. Where is it? You must be able to answer that. If we can't, then I think we have a big problem, because then it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u486	On the simple question: who is the National Programme for Rural Development, Spatial Planning... I sometimes call my task "more spatial planning." I must also say very often that I am not a Minister of Agriculture. It's on me. At the moment, Mr De Jonge has the direction of spatial planning. We also work with Mrs Adriaansens there. I really see this as an invitation to have the conversation right there. I see a link with what I have just promised Mr Boswijk in relation to the link with socio-economic aspects of this area-based approach. I suggest that I also give a look at that in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u487	Fine. Then we know that we can appeal to this minister. You'll get away with it. Then we know how to address this minister. The question I have is next. Before she talks to the provinces about this, I would like to know what the starting points for that discussion are. Maybe she promised, but then I didn't understand. So I would like to know, before she talks to the provinces about it, what the principles of the Empire are, in fact, just as with the letter she has now made. On that basis she has to talk to the provinces, so that it is, again, not a kind of pot where everyone pays some money for projects they wanted anyway, but that it really strengthens the Netherlands as a whole. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u488	So this is exactly what my colleague De Jonge is doing: to pick up direction there, from soil and water, just as we do in the NPLG. I hear Mr Klaver very well: look at socio-economic aspects throughout the Netherlands. We're having that conversation. These principles will also be linked to the letter I promised Mr Boswijk. But first I want to have this conversation, and I want to have a talk with colleague De Jonge and colleague Adriaansens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u489	A few weeks ago, during a working visit, I made a bike tour with an alderman, a fellow party member, through Twente. To be precise: we cycled through Tubbergen. During that bike ride this partymate pointed me to a number of farms we cycled past. The farmers who had lived in those farms had stopped their business. They either emigrated or they had no company successor left. The farms were empty. I believe that in certain areas this can also offer a future for farmers who want to stay, but specifically in this area that led to a lot of concerns among many inhabitants about the viability of their rural areas. Issues such as undermining, and neglect of the countryside then come around the corner. The College of Deputy States of Overijssel has therefore identified the socio-economic consequences as a starting point, as a condition for all regional processes in that province. Does the Minister know this approach? And is she prepared to undertake to discuss this conditionality with the provinces very closely, to make it part of the territory approach in all provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u490	That's exactly the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u491	I'm talking about conditionality for area processes. The socio-economic consequences of intervention will therefore be and must be reflected in any process of regional development in this province. Can the Minister promise that this will apply to every province? And is it prepared to provide a feedback on this in a follow-up letter or at a subsequent time when it informs the Chamber? What has been the outcome of the talks she has with the provinces about this? Is she prepared to admit this to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u492	Yes, exactly the way I have also said how important I think it is for farmers to be equal at the table. That is also a framework that I really give to the provinces as a condition for completing the processes of the area. Yes. Mr. Chairman. In the block of nature I start with the critical deposition value and with Mrs Van der Plas' question why the critical deposition value is a result obligation, not an indicator. The critical deposition value is only a result obligation in relation to the environmental value for nitrogen load at national level. For authorisation, the KDW is an indicator. It's an important indicator, but not the only one. The degree of overload on nature is often such that it is quite clear that a large reduction in deposition is needed. That is why it is very important that we have incorporated the reduction of overload in the law clearly, but also in checkable. We do not do that because the KDW is an end in itself, but because not exceeding it in a large part of nature is a very important step in the protection of that nature and in demonstrating it. Mr. Boswijk asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u493	This raises a question for Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u494	That's right. Because in the report published by the Planning Bureau for the Environment in July and on which we had a technical briefing, I think after last year's summer recess, it says that there are areas where critical deposition values are significantly exceeded while nature is in a positive state of stability. In doing so, the PBL indicates that "stable state" means "recovering." This applies, for example, to the dune and bulb area. That area is heavily redded, so to speak. But the dune and bulb region is in positive to stable condition. This applies to more areas. I asked the PBL a question about this during that technical briefing. I said: when I look at this state of affairs, there is also a picture of what is going on, and I see that 80% of the Natura 2000 sites, of the natural areas, are actually in a positive to stable state. And the PBL indicates that "stable state" is thus a recovering state. So that's 80%. So exceeding the critical deposition value doesn't mean anything about the state of nature at the time. It could just be in good shape. That is why I continue to find it strange that it is still in place as a result obligation. The PBL itself indicates: if the KDWs are exceeded, then you have to go into those nature reserves and see what exactly is going on and what exactly is needed to restore nature. It doesn't necessarily need to be reduced by nitrogen. They may also include nature management measures or other measures, for example in the field of hydrology. If you keep putting it in as a result obligation, you keep keeping those rules very rigid and hard. That's why I'm asking: why can't it be there as an indicator, so we know where it's being exceeded and where we're going to look?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u495	We need the KDW indicator for our licensing. That's one. It is only a result obligation in relation to the environmental value for nitrogen load; that is at national level. Together with this 50% reduction, we need this result obligation as inevitable targets to get this authorisation back on track at all. The judge said we don't believe it anymore, you really have to do it. That is why it is crucial that we set these targets inescapablely. That is why we included 50% and 74% of the KDW as a result obligation. We'll bet on that. But for licensing, it's an indicator. If there are areas where it appears that it is not feasible to come under that KDW, I have already said that, also in response to questions from Mr Boswijk, we will offer customization, then we will zoom in and see what can be done. We're not just looking at the KDW, we're looking at the wider picture. I fully agree with Mrs Van der Plas: we need to steer a broad approach to the conservation of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u496	I just lost it because of the microphone thing. Oh, yes, nitrogen reduction. The Minister is talking about moving towards a 50% reduction in nitrogen. But I also hear the Minister say all the time, also on television and on press conferences, in fact everywhere: 'nature must be restored', 'we must restore nature', 'nature, that is why we are doing this', 'we must restore nature, because we must pass it on to the next generation' and 'this is why we are doing it'. Now I hear: we have to meet that 50% reduction in nitrogen. But the 50% reduction in nitrogen is generic. We just have to get back to the Netherlands in nitrogen. That's the goal. But if in areas where the KDW is exceeded nature is in positive to restorative state, then I still don't understand that it remains a result obligation. I don't keep getting that. Do we have to restore nature? Or do we have to meet the nitrogen reduction in those natural areas? Should nitrogen be reduced in these natural areas? Or should we restore nature? I hear two different things. Last week I only heard: 'it is about nature', 'it is only about nature; it must be restored', 'that is what Europe says: we must restore nature'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u497	That's why we have 50% nitrogen reduction generically and that's why we have an area-oriented approach, with directional targets per area. Exactly because the state of nature is the starting point. Exactly because every area is different. This is why I chose to communicate those directional targets as a starting point, so that we can zoom in by area. Things can come up, as Mrs Van der Plas describes here: hey, the practice looks something different than we anticipated. This is precisely why we make nature-target analyses and let them be established by the independent ecological authority. That's to filter these things out and really offer customization. This is exactly why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u498	But what's wrong with an indicator? You do exactly the same thing, don't you? There's an indicator, and then you're gonna look where it's being crossed, because that's what you need to take a look at. Then why is it so hard to just take that as an indicator? If you're going to take area-oriented measures, you don't have to see it as a result obligation, do you? It's very rigid, very tight and it keeps a lot of things locked. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u499	What keeps the Netherlands locked up is that we have no inevitable targets for 50% reduction and 74% of our natural area is linked to it under the critical deposition value. We need to be able to prove that. Above that KDW there is deterioration by simply not excluding nitrogen. The problem with nitrogen is that the deterioration goes very slowly, like some kind of thermometer that indicates you have a fever. Then you're gonna have to be careful. But if you have a very high fever for a very long time, you have real problems. That is why we have established in the law that we are working with the KDW as an environmental value that we also need to achieve, not because the KDW says everything, but because it is a tool in determining whether we are on the right path to solve the nitrogen problem. At the same time, we need this in the context of authorisation. In order to demonstrate, in the context of the prohibition on deterioration, that nature does not deteriorate further, you must also be able to demonstrate that there is still a chance of recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u500	This is your last question, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u501	It's not really a question, but it's a statement or a comment. The minister compares it to fever and a thermometer. If you have a fever or an increase, you have to keep an eye on things, and if you have a long time, you know something bad is going on. But that's not what the PBL says. The PBL doesn't say that at all. The PBL says that if the KDW is exceeded, there is a risk that nature could deteriorate on the spot, or could deteriorate. That is not: if for a very long time the KDWs are exceeded, then nature is ill, then things are bad. That's not what the PBL says at all. I am actually wondering how the Minister came up with that comparison, because I do not think it is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u502	It is exactly as Mrs van der Plas says. We use the KDW as an indicator to see if nature can still recover, from the degree of nitrogen overload. What matters is that that nitrogen is a huge pressure factor on nature. We have a statute of limitations. We want to get the Netherlands off the lock. We want to be able to issue permits again and build houses again and to legalize PAS detectors again and make the industry more sustainable. For all this authorisation, we need to show that we are actually restoring nature and that we are emitting less nitrogen. Without less nitrogen emissions, you can't prove that nature is recovering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u503	I shall continue with Mrs van der Plas's line. I try to ask the Minister at once, through a very clear legal line, because I try to be sparing with interruptions. The Minister will recognize the appeals of many people who argue for getting the KDW out of the law. I'd like to ask the Minister what happens if you take that KDW out of the law. In what way is this KDW currently the instrument of justice, i.e. not an indicator, to judge whether or not authorisation can continue? Does the case law have other tools to be more nuanced about the state of conservation of nature, except or beside that KDW, so how rigid is it actually?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u504	This is precisely the point: there is no alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u505	But to what extent does that KDW make that a judge can only judge yes or no? We have chosen a very unique number with that KDW, while we know that there are also scientists who say that you could approach a bandwidth. This doesn't make things any easier, I say, because a bandwidth can work wider, but also less spacious, so you can also put yourself incredibly fast with it. To what extent does the KDW make that, in the case-law before a judge, perhaps unnecessarily harsh and rigid..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u506	Achieving the objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives is not just about reducing nitrogen, because there are more pressures on nature than just nitrogen. It's about getting all the ecological conditions in the whole area in order, like hydrology. That's the point. Is there enough habitat, for example? That is the basis of the Birds and Habitats Directives. With the nature goal analyses, which we have tested by an independent ecological authority, we are going to take a broad look at what is needed for that broad state of conservation. That is why I think these nature-target analyses are so important, and that is why I think it is so important that they are established by that independent ecological authority. In addition, we will look at possibilities to improve more measurement and calculation methods, so that we also have that track steady, so to speak. And besides, I want to bet a lot more on measuring at company level, so that we can get that track scaffolder as well. So no, it's not the only factor. I send on the broad nature goals, but the KDW is an extremely important indicator to determine whether nature is still able to recover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u507	The Minister just said that if we just continue with too much nitrogen and don't make it to the KDW, a "deterioration of nature cannot be ruled out." The Minister also says that it cannot be ruled out that nature does not deteriorate, so it does not matter. But let's approach it from the other side. If that miserable plan goes on, then we buy the farmers out and then we all do weird things in the countryside. Does the Minister guarantee that nature will recover?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u508	It takes a lot to restore nature. Nitrogen is one of the major pressure factors, like drought or hydrology, but nitrogen is the largest pressure factor. That is why we need to emit significantly less nitrogen in order to restore nature. We also need this in legal terms in order to be able to issue permits again. Ultimately, it is a balance between the economy and nature: how much economic growth can nature have? We will first have to restore nature to bring it back into balance. Actually, that's what's in store.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u509	But if it's only legal... the minister now pretends that this new legislation is a very expensive PAS of 32 billion. I think that's remarkable. So I'm gonna ask the next question again. If you get the agreement to spend the 32 billion entirely on buying out or expropriating farmers, do you believe that this will lead to a reduction in the nitrogen content?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u510	First of all, I would like to say that we are not just spending the 24.4 billion in the rural area transition fund on buying up or expropriating farmers. I think that's a false frame. That's not true. There is a lot of money in it for perspective and a lot of money for innovation, exacerbation and so on. Mr Staghouwer will also discuss what that perspective is for farmers. It's a very big trail in the transition fund. So it's not just about buying up or expropriating farmers. That's not true. If we just say "we don't have a choice in the legal sense," we're doing ourselves short, I think, but we don't have a choice. The judge was ready-to-use: you can grant the permits at the time when you can provely restore nature and detectably reduce nitrogen emissions. So, in that sense, we really don't have a choice in the legal sense. At the same time, I think that there is a difference between us and the fact that we really want to restore nature. Not because the judge has to, but because we want to pass nature, fragile nature, on to our children - and I hope one day my grandchildren. And that is a task in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u511	I do not really want another interruption to go off, because the question was, and I have already asked it twice: if we spend that whole amount as the Minister wishes, will nature recover? I don't have an answer to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u512	Yes. That 50% reduction has been passed on. With this we are going to emit much less nitrogen, allowing nature to recover. And the hopeful thing is: 'And I hope that a lot of Members of Parliament recognize this here 'that nature is also resilient, and that in places where we are doing remedial measures, you see that nature can recover.' So I'm even hopeful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u513	The Minister is hopeful, but I have now asked three times and there is actually no answer. So I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u514	The minister said yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u515	I said yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u516	You guarantee that nature will recover?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u517	This has been taken care of. If we emit 50% less nitrogen and 74% of the natural area below that KDW, then nature is recovering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u518	No, the "nature recovering"... That could also be 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u519	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u520	The point is that we spend a lot of money, we kick the whole country apart, and we don't get the guarantee that, if all that goes on... I hope it doesn't happen; I want to change those plans. But if it continues, you must at least give the guarantee that with all these plans the mooring will return, and that the grouse will again hop around on the Sallandse Heuvelrug. All this must be guaranteed. If that is not the case, then I can only conclude that the 32 billion is only for what the Minister said four or five times this evening: to be able to issue permits again. And then we have a new PAS, only it costs 32 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u521	We have a new PAS when we issue permits without restoring nature. That's the honest story. And yes, with these measures we are going to restore nature. And we do this not only by reducing nitrogen emissions, but also by working on the targets for water quality, and also the targets for our climate forecast. That is all very important to restore nature, and I am sure that we will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u522	So much optimism, that just deserves appreciation. And I think that you really must have a very optimistic attitude to underline this repeatedly this evening. But there is no sign of argument for why these demands would lead to, indeed, nature restoration. There are indications that it's not gonna happen. If you look at the PBL report, which has already been referred to: even if you wipe out entire parts of the Netherlands, you do not yet meet the critical deposition value, and so you do not have the nature restoration yet. If you see what the different pass-through of NO and NH is, how different that is and how durable that different pass-through is, how long that is in the field... We do not have enough insight into that too. Then I would really like, following on from the questions of the PVV colleague, to provide a more detailed basis for what optimism is based on 'the success'. Look, of course you have to say that, I get that. If you roll the sleeves and you have a lot of money to spend and you have to get to work, then you have to radiate trust. Only, what is this confidence based on, while there are indications in reports that that is not going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u523	It's been calculated that it's gonna work. And we're not gonna wipe the whole of the Netherlands. I keep naming this: these kinds of frames are not true. We are not going to wipe out the whole of the Netherlands, nor are we going to wipe out all the farmers. 74% of our natural area below the critical deposition value is feasible. And there are areas where this is not feasible; I fully agree with Mr Bishop. That's where we're gonna see what's needed, in other ways. That's what we're doing these nature-target analyses for. Let us establish this by an independent ecological authority so that together with the provinces we can offer that customization precisely in those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u524	This is the point I have heard the Minister make this evening: we are not going to wipe out entire areas. No, they didn't say that either. I'm not saying that either. I'm just saying, even if you did, you wouldn't make it to nature's targets. That turns out to be when you look at the PBL report. I like that it's all calculated, but the Planbureau's expectations for the Environment really point in a different direction. Then I don't have enough clue, no matter how much I want it. I do not have sufficient support for the optimism of the Minister to believe that this is really the right approach. We really need to look at other factors, including the policy starting points. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u525	We have such an overload of nature by nitrogen that we have no choice but to really shut down that nitrogen tap. As soon as you turn off that nitrogen tap, you can start restoring nature. Every recovery measure we take now is mop up with the tap open. You keep adding nitrogen. That's why it's so crucial that you turn off that tap and first release less nitrogen, so you can start restoring that nature. And yes, that's gonna work. But it's crucial that you turn off that nitrogen tap. Last week I was with my colleague Demir in Flanders. She says the exact same thing. That's why it's so important that you turn that nitrogen tap off at the same time. Because if we work cross-border in nature areas to restore that nature there and one country shuts down the tap and the other country doesn't, we won't help each other. That is precisely the reason: first you close the tap and then you can restore nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u526	That has everything to do with defining the habitats, the types of nature you want to have. In my opinion it is therefore... I wanted to say "unexploited work," but that may be a little too strong. If you are not prepared to look as a government at all policy points, i.e. also at the goal of nature policy now, then this is not going to help. Then after about ten years, in 2035, we're going to say, where did the 24.3 billion go? It didn't help. Who's gonna get the blame? The peasants. That's what I see coming and that's why I'm so critical of it. This is not an integrated approach that leads to the desired goal. That is my great concern, apart from the social, emotional and psychological factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u527	How much scientific justification should there be about what the state of nature is, how bad it is? How much scientific evidence still needs to be written for that? We really know enough to know that we need to restore that nature. We really do know enough for that. That integrated approach that Mr Bishop is talking about is exactly what we are doing with the National Programme for Rural Areas. So we are not just focusing on reducing nitrogen emissions, because then we would be failing ourselves and in a few years' time we will be back on the farmyard with new questions and challenges. It is precisely for this reason that we have an integrated approach based on soil and water, so that we do things in the right place, focusing on the climate targets, focusing on water quality and on reducing nitrogen emissions. It is precisely for this reason that we do this integrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u528	I shall confine myself to one point. Water and climate aspects have not yet been incorporated into the plan. So we should not pretend that this is all the integral plan. But I talked about this earlier this afternoon; I am not going to go into that again. I have sufficiently made the point that one of the weaknesses of the policy is that there is now no integrated approach, but a partial approach. There are still a number of pieces of puzzle around it, and that creates enormous uncertainty, including in this sector. Anyway, that's just a footnote to the Minister's comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u529	I have also explained that it is a starting point and that we are inescapable of establishing those objectives in full on 1 July 2023. I have also explained that we have no other choice, however suboptimal, to give the provinces a year to get to work on this. Yeah, that means the directional targets will change a lot. Yes, that means that these limits will be adjusted or that targets will be set. This means, in some areas, that after the climate targets and water quality targets, which are known to the provinces, there is still going to be a move. But we have no choice but to do it this way. For example, we have a year to settle this and on 1 July 2023 we can set all goals in full at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u530	I would like to ask the Minister how many questions remain, because I think we need to speed up now. We also have the other minister and the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u531	I'm gonna move on real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u532	I'd say kick in the gas pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u533	Mr Van Campen had a question about communication, to stress the urgency. I actually think it is very good to focus more on communication, to explain the problem that is so complicated to understand, but also to explain the importance of a strong nature, that it is good for future generations, how important it is to have clean air, a clean soil, clean drinking water from the tap. I stress that myself actively, reactively. I will certainly continue to do so. It is important that the need for the approach is known, also in order to create even more support. Ultimately, it is about the health of every Dutchman and the future of new generations, knowing that this transition affects everyone. So I think that's a good suggestion. Then the ecological authority. When are we gonna get to work on that? I'm working hard on that. The effects are currently in the final phase. I hope that the ecological authority can be fully operational after the summer. We have talked about 'back to Brussels'. We have talked about the integrated strategy. Then I've finished this block. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the other block. We have already had a lot of that because of the many interruptions. We have discussed Mr Thijssen's question on PAS detectors. Then there's the permission. Is the space released going to the highest bidder? That is a question from Mr Thijssen. The new scope for authorisation does not exist at the same time in every area. We've already prioritized housing, the seven MIRT projects, PAS reports. They are already in the SSRS, where specific space is reserved for these purposes. The way in which nitrogen can be used further depends on the area. Provinces can indicate in the area plans how they want to prioritize that space. Whether priority should be given to projects of national interest and, if so, in what way, is a discussion that we are going to have in the cabinet. Then there is Mr Van Campen's question about the measurement network. He asked me if I see any opportunities for further refinement of the measurement network. Let me point out that we have a good national measuring network. Compared to other countries, this is also truly advanced. The measurement network has recently been expanded with new scientific insights. The calculation models are also increasingly refined with new scientific insights. That's what the National Knowledge Programme Nitrogen is specially designed for. But it can always be better. I am also looking at local and regional initiatives that can help to improve the measurement and calculation system as a whole. These initiatives also have an explicit place in the knowledge programme. I am looking at Mr Boswijk, because he referred to a number of projects, including in the North of the Netherlands, where sensor technology tests take place, pilots, to measure real-time also in nature areas. I'm gonna take that out of my head for a second, 'cause then I got it right away. I would like to support these pilots, because we also have to go through with that to expand the measurement network, also for the further validation of the robust calculations we have. I would add that you can give it to every entrepreneur, every farmer, to be able to measure on his own property what the emission is and how he can influence it. However, there is still a great deal to be done before we can actually use these results for authorisation. But this is exactly the question I put to the National Knowledge Programme Nitrogen. Next to Mr Van Haga's question on what is wrong with the four points on emissions, AERIUS not well modelled and KDWs. We're being measured. I have just said that measuring is extremely important in order to gain more insight into emissions distribution and deposition. We need models, because you cannot put a measuring pole on every square centimeter in the Netherlands. The models are therefore validated with measurements. I have said before that the KDW is the best available scientifically substantiated indicator. Mr. Chairman. Then I've got another one. That is indeed Mrs Koekkoek's question about the involvement of farmers in PEEN - I wouldn't have invented that name either: Pan-European Ecological Network (Ecological Network) and how the Minister thinks about it. In general, we want to involve farmers as much as possible in the implementation of nature management. Mrs Koekkoek also knows that I am committed as much as possible to nature inclusion, including in the agricultural sector. I see a lot of opportunities and prospects for the future when it comes to agricultural nature management, and precisely that combination. I would like to strengthen that further in the National Programme for Rural Areas. This also applies to our efforts in the European area, including through the Natura 2000 network and the ambitions we have for the EU Biodiversity Strategy. I will also explore to what extent the PEN, the Pan-European Ecological Network, is in line with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u534	I think that's what brought you to the end. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u535	Maybe it's with the other minister, you know, but I've asked how much funding has gone to stable innovations over the last 30 years and how much that has produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u536	I think... Yeah, he's with colleague Staghouwer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u537	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then we will listen to Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u538	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on nitrogen policy. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with an introduction. I've shortened it a little bit and then four blocks of questions. Yesterday, the whole of the Netherlands was able to see how serious the concerns of the agricultural sector, of the farmers, are. That's what hits us. Those emotions weren't new to me. Over the past few months, I have had a lot of intrusive conversations on the farmyard, all over the country. Immediately after the publication of my letter of Parliament, I had a conversation with farmers. That was quite a loaded conversation, I can tell you. At some meetings, I wasn't really welcomed with open arms. And I understand that, too. But it proved possible to have honest conversations, in which everything could be said. Farmers told me that in recent years it has become increasingly difficult to earn an income. They said they were powerless. There's a lot down to farmers' shoulders. And a lot of regulation doesn't help. What remains with me is that yesterday in Stroe we were able to see again that many entrepreneurs want to go through with the work they are so attached to. I often also tasted realism in farmers: it can no longer be as we have done so far; please, make us part of that solution. I also recognized the entrepreneurial fire when farmers showed me what they are doing to make it more sustainable. Innovative stables, energy generation, landscape management or beautiful forms of recreation and care at the farmer, to give just a few examples. The diversity and creativity are very large. I would give everyone such an introduction to the agricultural sector. All these meetings made me particularly determined: in the Netherlands there must be a strong agricultural sector. There must be room for farmers to set their own course as entrepreneurs. That is the background to the letter of perspective I have made and what we are talking about in this debate. Eventually, more farmers will stay than they will stop. For farmers who want to and can make them more sustainable, there is a perspective, I say with emphasis. Mr Van der Wal also spoke about this. As far as I am concerned, there is not only a task for the farmer. We all do the preservation of our food. You can't do that over the farmer's back. Suppliers, banks, processing industry and supermarkets should help to ensure that farmers can invest a fair living. Sustainable products must be able to enter the market and be sold. I've talked a lot with that chain in the last few months, but that's not enough. To speak with Mr De Groot, there must be real change. We can only do that if we do it right now. Mr Van Campen spoke of being a market master. I don't know if I'm gonna fit into that role, but I'm gonna try and shape it up and give it some substance. If we don't do that now, if we don't make that transition now, we can definitely forget about it. That's why it's time now. That's why your room gives me the instruments. I'm definitely gonna bet it. Then back to the farmyard. The perspective letter gives a direction. Circle farming is the route to strengthen nature and improve water quality. This means that agriculture will emit much less ammonia and greenhouse gas and that there will be substantially fewer fertilisers and plant protection products in the water. The agricultural sector consists of a wide variety of farmers, earning models and opportunities in a specific area. As far as I am concerned, this is also the strength of agriculture. I therefore believe that an entrepreneur himself should be at the wheel. No one wants a blueprint from The Hague. Everyone wants a perspective that fits their company and ambitions. This perspective must take shape in the area processes in the near future. Mr Van der Wal has already spoken about this. During the transition to sustainable business operations, farmers can count on the support of the government, both nationally and also provincially. In the perspective letter there is a wide range of possibilities. Farmers can, for example, use subsidy schemes for technical innovations. And no, Mr. Bishop, it's not a staple by existing regulations. Farmers can use the processing and processing of manure into fertiliser substitutes. I will come back to that later. Farmers can also work towards a business operation with fewer cattle and yet enough returns. There is no farmer who has told me that he is happy from just taking more cows. They can also get inspiration from colleagues at demonstration companies. In this way, farmers can make a change to sustainable agriculture and a new income model. And yes, I understand the impatience of your room. I understand the impatience of the entrepreneurs. That's what I've got myself. Entrepreneurs want to know what they can count on today. But I also want to be honest about it, Mr Van der Wal said that too, that that clarity is not yet complete. We're working on area plans and processes. It also sets out what instruments the entrepreneurs can use, how we can support the entrepreneurs and how much money will be available. Of course, this information will be easily and easily available to entrepreneurs. As far as I am concerned, today is the starting point for further work on how we are going to do that. I want to give that form and content. Mr. Chairman. Whoever knows me knows that I am always willing to have open conversations with you as a Chamber, but certainly also with entrepreneurs. Major measures are needed to restore balance between nature and agriculture. I have the confidence that the Dutch agricultural sector is capable of doing so, with the help of the government. Mr. Chairman. That was my introduction. I now turn to a number of specific issues. I would like to start with the perspective for the agricultural entrepreneur and, in particular, for circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u540	Could you hand me your cubes, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u541	Yeah, I got the introduction. I have a total of four cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u542	What are the four cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u543	That is perspective circular agriculture, earning power and non-binding contributions of the chain, innovation and a block of other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u544	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u545	Mr Grinwis had a question on behalf of the Christian Union about a concrete perspective. How is the Minister actually going to help realise that quickly expressed word "perspective"? I just said a few words about that. I am incredibly aware that this is crucial and that agricultural entrepreneurs have the right to clarity and freedom of choice when it comes to how they should and want to do it. In parallel to drawing up the area plans, I will work on an instrument package, including the related budgets. After all, we have been given money in the transition fund, with which we can give the best possible support. In November I will come up with a further development of this. Let me give you a list of the letters you can expect in the coming months. Before the summer, I will come to the Chamber with a letter on the preparation of the covenant for animal husbandry. Before the summer, together with my colleague from VWS, I will also come forward with an action plan to strengthen zoonoses policy. Soon I will come back to Mrs Ouwehand's question; I will just park it. I come in September with the task of the chain parties to work out how to improve farmers' earning capacity. I will go into more detail later on on how I intend to achieve this, and with which parties. I come in September with a letter on the definitions of land-based dairy and beef farming. I will also come in September with a letter on the further content and development of the ground-boundity. I will send a letter to the Chamber in November on the further development of circular agriculture through the KPI system. I will also share with the Chamber openings of the Sbv investment module in the coming period. I will also send a letter on the National Protein Strategy and on the lease legislation. In the coming months, this will be at least on the agenda for information, including effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u546	In any case, this is more concrete information than it says in the letter. These are important issues and definitions, which, of course, determine the perspective of agriculture. To what extent has the sector been addressed and secured? And how can we in the Chamber have a little bit of an eye on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u547	It is a good habit to have conversations with the sector on all kinds of subjects. Wherever I can, I certainly will. We are, of course, talking to the poultry sector about zoonoses policy and the development of earning capacity. As far as ground-boundity is concerned, I also speak with LTO and NajK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u548	Thank you. Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u549	I really don't think it's enlightening at all, to be perfectly honest. This is a list of subjects of the letters, but I have no idea what to expect. For me that is not so bad, but for farmers watching, I would like to know a little more. Do I understand correctly that the further strategy on circular agriculture will not be sent to the Chamber until November?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u550	I said that this is the start of the process to make it clear where we are going. This concerns a perspective for agriculture. We've had a start on the NPLG. This is the start of the farmer's earning capacity towards the sustainable future of the agricultural sector. We're gonna work that out. This requires a financial framework. It will take some work to do. All kinds of legislative pathways are needed for land-relatedness. I am going to share with the Chamber separately how we go into the future in that regard. That doesn't come in these letters. This indicates a direction. This indicates a line. The effects are still to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u551	There's no direction or line in your letter. I say that through you, Mr. Chairman, to this minister. That was in the other letter. There's a lot of fuss about that, but there was a line in it. You are now trying to clarify what letters will be sent. I would ask you not to give another answer to the case, because otherwise this will be a very long night. I can see from my point of view that this does not make the President happy. I have a very specific question. What needs to be worked out and what can we expect about circular agriculture in November? At that point, you specifically undertake a letter. What's gonna be in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u552	There comes a definition of circular agriculture and an answer to the question of how we will work on it in the coming years. I can now very easily define circular agriculture, but you also ask me how we are going to shape it in the coming period. I'd like to do that carefully. I would like to do that with a letter to your Chamber, and I would like to discuss that with your Chamber. If you ask me what I think the definition of circular agriculture is, I can give it very easily. As far as I am concerned, this is the best way of closing the loops and ensuring that he closes up the manure business as close as possible to a farmer, but also with regard to the purchase of feed. That's not getting all over the world business to his company anymore. I want to do that carefully. I will do that with a letter and then I will come to your Chamber to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u553	This sounds a lot like what the previous Minister of Agriculture wrote four years ago, or what the former Minister wrote. So in all honesty: this is what we have been talking about for a long time and this calls for action. So, if I'm right, we have a definition. It's worked out before. Budget has been made available. What ingredients are we missing? You'll have to make choices as a minister. Sorry, I don't know what to ask. There's hardly anything to ask about this, because why not come up with this letter in November? All the ingredients are there. There are farmers in the Netherlands who are already on the right track and want to go on, and they have no idea what circular farming will mean to them and what you are going to mean to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u554	Mr President, I have listed the letters I wish to send to your Chamber. I have a number of questions, including the impact of circular agriculture. Perhaps it would be helpful if I could stop by first and see if Mr Klaver has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u555	Why don't we do that first and let the Minister move on with his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u556	Fine. We have all the patience in the world, even if it takes up to four hours. But with these answers, as far as I am concerned, the Minister will not get away. So I'm gonna wait for the further answer. But this is really vagueness at the top and this really can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u557	I should also like to look at Mr Grinwis. The Minister states that he would like to proceed with the answer to the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u558	The Minister gave a list of the further elaboration with which he will come. That seems perfectly logical to me with a starter's letter and a perspective letter, in which there are indeed a lot of brackets that still have to be worked out. These are very fundamental issues, for example ground-boundness. That's kind of the first idea in the letter. But how you work that out, how many livestock units per hectare you're gonna work, how many kilograms of milk per hectare, how much you're gonna make the geographical space to work with a farmer: that's so incredibly directing. And that will also have a huge impact on the size of the livestock or on the conversion of arable land to grassland and vice versa. So in short, I understand very well. The Minister is putting this instrument box, this toolbox, in addition to the area agendas to give farmers real perspective and future prospects. My question is this: is this indeed to be done prior to the budgetary procedure in the Chamber? This morning it was proclaimed for the week of November 1. And are there any budgets already included in that budget or in the first fund budget, so that once the regional processes in the provinces start, farmers can actually start to claim them? Don't we just have a thunder cloud first and do not the subsidies for certain innovations hang somewhere in a tree that no one can reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u559	That's definitely the point. I have agreed with Mr Van der Wal that we do not want to lose this year and next year. So we want to get started as soon as possible, but it has to be good and orderly, huh? In the end, it must also be good, efficient and manageable. We are now in the process of giving this form and content in a good way. Mr De Groot's comments on the development of circular agriculture. I saw Mr De Groot shaking a little bit too. Look, Mr Grinwis just answered for me. Look, in the end you have to carefully write down these kinds of things, because it has great consequences for the groundboundness and the choices that need to be made in them. And I'm going to make those choices, because it also means that there are big consequences if you take a look at 2032. That is the year we have said: we want to be ground-bound. You have to describe that. This requires legislation on manure. And that can't just be written down in a perspective letter. So that's where you have to act carefully. That is why I said: I am trying to send a letter on this in November. And if it's finished sooner, I certainly won't forget it. This also gives me complete clarity and clarity about the direction this cabinet wants to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u560	The mandate laid down in the coalition agreement is certainly a great mandate: a very radical change in favour of agriculture. But when I hear the minister then... Yes, the Minister gets the time from the coalition, or at least from D66, to do so with policy and step-by-step. But if you don't define the starting point clearly, you send the sector into the forest. You'll send the farmers into the woods. The Minister's definition of this, the Minister knows that it may be an intermediate step towards circular agriculture, but has nothing to do with the principle of circular agriculture. I do not want to talk time through saying that again, because I am doing so in all my contributions. We have discussed this for a long time in the coalition negotiations. Then I find it really shocking if the Minister here just brings his own definition. Then I wonder... Either the Minister is going to define that properly, but then he is now, or he's taking his time. But if he shakes something like that off his sleeve, I find that really rude, because that is exactly what Mrs Verburg of the CDA said: I'm going to close the loop more and less raw materials... That's exactly the current system, the system we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u561	If I get the time of Mr De Groot to get the definition clear on paper, then I will convince Mr De Groot that I am not Mrs Verburg and that we are really going through a transition. We can now see that today, if your Chamber agrees with the perspective and with the letter on the National Programme, we are really setting a mark for the future of agriculture. A few things still have to be worked out, including the definition of circular agriculture, but also the way in which we have to deal with the earning capacity of the farmer. I will come back to that in a moment in my answer about the links in the chain, so that I can clearly explain what I see in front of me: that it is no longer voluntary and that we are really going to a transition. But I'd like to have the opportunity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u562	Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u563	I understand Mr De Groot's impatience. It sounds a bit like a circular argument to me, if I am honest: the definition of circular agriculture is that you close the loop. Yeah, we were all that far. I think... There must be a transition in agriculture. Then it is so fair to map out clearly the choices we have to make. Take the other day. I asked Mr De Groot about this in an interruption. Finally, the European Commission is now saying that if there is imports of food products from third countries produced under lower standards than those in the EU, then we should not accept that anymore. So we are going to make higher demands at the border. Finally! If countries do not want that, they have to pay a levy. Then you lift that competitive disadvantage. The Minister's reaction to this is: I see advantages and disadvantages; we have pilots, let's see; but yes, I also see the benefits of these free trade agreements for our own sector. But then you keep betting on two horses, and I don't think you can! I've also asked the Minister of Parliament questions. Well, now that we know this is finally going to happen! This is the step taken by the European Commission, and will we therefore immediately agree with it and therefore no longer accept that imports into Europe and also into the Netherlands can take place of food products produced under standards lower than ours? That seems to me to be a good start to a fundamental choice that must finally be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u564	Mrs Ouwehand is trying to sort out an answer that I am going to give later, because she has asked that question and she is about to get an answer to it. I do that with other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u565	With the rest of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u566	I've divided it into cubes. If you're very uneasy, I'd like to raise that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u567	Maybe that's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u568	Well, I'm gonna go find him. Sure. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u569	Then let's put Mrs Ouwehand's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u570	It is, of course, for me to find out exactly where I put the question. Of course, that's always the risk. Let's see. You're making it very difficult. Then it'll be in the last folder. Yeah, that question's with me on the CETA block. Well, well, well. I have two groups to answer, Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Beckerman. Mrs Ouwehand asks: "Perspective for farmers is non-existent. Do choices need to be made, such as protecting against unintended competition from outside?" She'd like my reaction to that. My reaction is that there is, of course, perspective. I have just indicated that a lot of farmers stay in the Netherlands. Sustainability must certainly not come from the market. I deliberately put the question here because I also have to give some answers about the links in the chain. For export, I focus on the export of high-quality sustainable products instead of focusing on large volumes. As far as the trade agreements you are asking for are concerned, the Netherlands is also focusing on the high standards of sustainability and animal welfare. I can see where you're going with this. You say that if farmers have to produce on a slightly higher plan and there is imports from abroad, that can conflict with each other. I agree with you on that and I'm going to see what I can do about it. That's all I can promise you right now. So I understand very well what you're saying. I want to pay attention to that, too. I'll see what I can do about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u571	My point is that this debate has been going on for quite some time. The European Commission has taken a decision. It has linked its plans for the Green Deal and the Farm to Fork to what the farmers can expect. If we are going to impose higher environmental requirements here in the Netherlands and Europe because we have to keep the earth viable, farmers can expect us to make the choice immediately to say: then we will stop with the open borders for products produced under much lower standards. The European Commission therefore makes that choice. Now, in the Netherlands of all European countries, we have the biggest problem with the sustainability of our agriculture. It would then have to be sorted out in the Netherlands. I just don't think that's okay in the direction of the farmers. There are all kinds of things that are difficult. There are all kinds of things to work out. It's hard enough already. Let's say today: at least we're not doing this to you. Can we at least give that back to the farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u572	I still owe Mrs Beckerman an answer on CETA. I hadn't given that answer yet. CETA has been in force since 2017. One part of this is dumping practices. The EU can also take action in this regard. This has not been the case in the last year with regard to imports of meat and dairy products. It is therefore closely monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u573	But CETA was concluded between the European Commission and Canada before the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen said so bravely: we have not done our homework and the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom; we really have to put nature first. What will happen in the Netherlands? The demands are getting stricter. The Netherlands is not such a cheap country for farmers to produce. So here's where we're gonna step in, right? The Minister says: fortunately we have not seen any problems at all with the potential of CETA. But it's not gonna stay that way. The products produced in Canada will become increasingly attractive if you only look at the price. How successful has the Ministry of Agriculture had in 40 years to say, "No, people, you shouldn't just look at the price. You also just have to pay for sustainable food"? That just doesn't work. If there is that offer, if there is that possibility, then it will be in the Netherlands in the supermarkets, especially if we are going to take further steps here for the protection of nature. I therefore find that irresponsible. I don't think you can do that to the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u574	I have just said that I will go into more detail about how I intend to tackle all those links in the chain that should contribute to the farmer's earning model. This is one of the parts of it. I am not going to give another answer to the question about CETA and the import of meat and dairy products. I'm about to answer the question of how I think I'm going to deal with links in the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u575	So as a farmer from one minister, you get a fiercely attractive offer to quit. The other minister offers you a vague offer that he will send a letter once in November and in December, and that he will take another look at this. It must also be made wildly attractive to continue where it can be done in a sustainable way. It's not wildly attractive if you then put public money into making sure that there can be a good way to farm there. We're gonna put a lot of public money into it, and then we're gonna have to compete with that world market. Why can't the Minister be more specific about that and why not say in advance: yes, but then we will also protect our farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u576	I have just indicated how I think I can make arrangements with the links in the chain. That is where I come in a moment's time to respond to the question of a better earning capacity for the farmer, so that even the farmer here does not suffer from the comments made by Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u577	We switch back and forth all the time. Now there would be an answer to my question, but that will be in the next block. Soon I'll be through all my interruptions and still have no answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u578	Maybe we should give the Minister a chance to answer the questions first. Then we'll take a look at...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u579	This wasn't my fault, Mr. Chairman. These would be the answers to my questions. I didn't think of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u580	Yeah, that's right. I'm looking at the minister. Maybe we should give the Minister a chance to answer the questions. Then I will come straight back to you, Mrs Beckerman, if your questions have not been answered or have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u581	I was working on the circular farming block. I should like to comment on a few points made by Mr De Groot. They're mainly about the KPIs. Mr De Groot asked: what KPIs does the Minister intend to set up with regard to feed, manure and soil? Recently, an integrated set of KPIs for circular agriculture has been developed, with several sustainability aspects. This set is also in line with the policy objectives of the Ministry of LNV. This concerns explicitly the KPIs focused on feed, manure and soil. So we are talking about outputs, greenhouse emissions. This set is now being tested in practice and will be part of the way in which we can work with circular agriculture. How does the Minister ensure that a private quality system will contain a mandatory cycle module on feed, manure and soil? Mr De Groot asks if I am going to require a private quality system. I very much agree with Mr De Groot that agricultural entrepreneurs should be enabled to produce economically sustainable products. Part of that will have to be done from the market, which I will come up with later. As I mentioned earlier, I will make firm agreements with the chain parties on this, which are not without obligation, in order to strengthen the income position of these farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u582	Mr Klaver has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u583	I'm trying to express myself carefully, Mr. Chairman. We're really only getting court answers. All kinds of letters are promised, extending until about November. I do not think this is acceptable. I do not think that it fits in with this debate, in which a great deal of content has been exchanged. Actually, I'd like to ask the Minister the following. He can go through all his folders now, but I don't feel like we're getting much better. I want to keep the atmosphere good here, too. I am afraid that if we continue like this, there could also be acidification in the Chamber, and that is not good. Is the Minister prepared to come forward with an integral letter before Princess Day? In this letter, he should work out all these subjects, which are now being asked substantive questions. That letter should also include all the arrangements. That letter should further clarify the coherence with all other policy areas. Is he willing to do that so we can pick this up in the fall? Because I am afraid that this is not going to go much further in this debate and that this will lead to frustration in the Chamber. Let the Minister say that there is just an integral letter before mid-September and that the arrangements are there. Then we can talk more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u584	Madam President, I would, of course, like to make a commitment to everything that your Chamber is asking for. So that's no problem at all. If that is what Mr Klaver is asking for, I would be happy to do so. I note that a number of questions have been asked. I'm trying to answer that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u585	I think that's very good. A letter has now been promised on an integral policy of substance. It will also be continued when the budget is discussed. I think it is right that the Minister should have the opportunity to answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u586	Sure. I leave the latter to the Minister, and certainly to colleagues. 'Cause I'm sure there's gonna be other questions. But I would like to be very sharp, because "a note" is easily promised. I am talking about a letter that replaces all the letters that the Minister just served up until November. All this comes in one integral letter that we receive before Princess Day, including the elaboration of all the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u587	Let me express myself in a parliamentary capacity. I think this is a little bit: push the Minister to come up with results as soon as possible. I have promised Mr Klaver that I am, of course, prepared to do so where there are opportunities. But in reply to Mr De Groot's and Mr Grinwis' questions, I also said that it must be done carefully. However, I must have the opportunity to take the steps carefully in the manure legislation. I've got to be careful with the ground-boundness. If Mr Klaver asks me to send a letter to the Chamber by September, I do not know whether I will answer the questions put by Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u588	I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment. I would like to have a quick exchange of views with the members, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u589	It has been agreed with Members that you, Minister, will, of course, have the opportunity to answer the questions. You promised an integral letter before Princess Day. Let's see if we can get any more initiatives from the Chamber. But first you will answer the questions that have been asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u590	Fine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Thijssen has asked a question about the balding of the countryside: how is it stopped, because there is no need for fewer farmers. As Mrs van der Wal said, the policy does not control the number of farmers or the number of animals. The point is that in the future we can move towards sustainable forms of agriculture. It should be emphasized that all those who are still looking forward to a resilient agricultural system, where there is also good bread to be paid. Then let's take a look. I'm going to the chains. The earning power and the non-free contribution of the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u591	I've just asked the members to wait. I really want to give the Minister a chance to answer some questions. After that, you will have every opportunity to ask questions. The minister just got back on his feet, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u592	About this letter and about what we're actually doing. Will you do that at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u593	Yes. Let's get the Minister to answer the questions first. Let's see what's left. I think that's useful. Otherwise, the Minister will not be able to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u594	The question of the VVD Group: does the Minister agree with the VVD that the key to a fair income model for farmers lies with the retail sector? I certainly share Mr Van Campen's view. But it's not just retail. Food service companies and banks also have a role to play. Of course, the retail sector can contribute to sustainability efforts and a fair earning model. Marketing security is part of that, as well as a fair distribution of margins. Then there is Mrs Koekkoek's question, also about the earning models: does the Minister have a view on the earning models in the chain? Sure there's a visual on that. Through the reports of Wageningen Economic Research we have a good idea of the incomes of the agricultural entrepreneurs, but also of the distribution of added value across the different links in the chain. Then there is the comment about the real estate guys and the banks and Mr Van Campen's comments. How will the Minister avoid speculation on agricultural land? It is indeed undesirable that so-called real estate guys are going to prey on the farmers who are considering stopping. If companies that voluntarily stop having to settle their ongoing obligations towards the banks, that is part of the termination process. From the Empire, of course, we are generously committed to financial support to help the entrepreneurs stop. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's question about the role of the banks. She asked if the cabinet believes that hundreds of millions of public money should not be in bank buildings, but in rural areas. The resources of the transition fund are, of course, intended to meet the challenges of nature and nitrogen and climate and water. Some of these funds will be devoted to the voluntary cessation of livestock farms, through the so-called stopper scheme. It is logical that participating companies which voluntarily terminate their business should settle their current financial obligations. That is part of a normal business process, and of course we, as a government, cannot get involved in that. To Mrs Ouwehand's comment, on the amounts that linea recta fall into the pockets of the banks, the answer is the same as that given to Mrs Beckerman. How is the Minister going to ensure that banks not only encourage intensification and quantity, but above all extravagance and quality? It is important that we support farmers who want to switch to that, I have just said something about it, including with the Investment Fund for Sustainable Agriculture. But there's more to it. It is true that I am going to talk to banks to let them take their responsibility, because there is also a need for a strong contribution from the banks. The coalition agreement also clearly states that there is a need for a non-binding contribution from chain parties. I will also involve the banks. I'm having a first conversation with the banks next week. What does the earning capacity look like in the future was a question from Mr Thijssen. I have tried to make an idea of what a farm might look like, but I also said in my letter that I am not going to work with a blueprint. I see a earning model for me from an farmer who sells milk on the one hand and on the other hand can hang a number of functions under his company, so that he ultimately has a earning model with which he is also resilient and has opportunities to operate his business. This could be through multifunctional agriculture, as I said in my introduction, through agricultural nature management or through, for example, waterline tyre management. That could be with his own cheese from his milk products. You have a wide range of options. I have seen over the past few months how that can lead to success. Then I have some questions about innovation. That's the next block, Madam President. Mr Klaver asked how many billions of grants have gone to technological innovations over the last 30 years and what their impact has been. I have tried to get an answer to that question, but it is not easy to express it in money, because we do not have an overview of it. It is true that we are trying to use subsidy instruments to innovate at least 10% of the sector. That's our gauge. In 2018, a report was prepared to identify multi-annual innovation resources, but at the moment, 2022, I have no overview of this. I can assure Mr Klaver that we can look into this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u595	And when about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u596	I don't know, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u597	Can you give an indication of this in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u598	That's what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u599	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u600	Then there is Mrs van der Plas' question about innovation and management measures. Can't I bet more on that? It is also Mr Bishop's question. Well, that's what we're gonna do. We are committed to public-private cooperation within the agri-food sector. We are focusing on the subsidy source-oriented sustainability measures. We are committed to the Environmental Investment Deduction and we are also committed to a subsidy scheme for high-quality manure processing, which we are about to open up. Of course, we are also trying, through the new common agricultural policy and the National Strategic Plan, to link things up to meet the farmer's earning capacity as best we can. Mr Van Haga's question: is the Minister aware of the Delft start-up MEZT, which captures ammonia and turns it into manure? Certainly we are aware of that. We are involved in this through the Top Sector Agri & Food. It's an interesting innovation technique to capture nitrogen. Such techniques are indeed helpful when it is considered whether we will not be able to switch to fertilizer substitutes in the future. Then there's something about a derogation, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u601	There is a question from Mr Van Haga about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u602	We see all kinds of beautiful innovations coming along, such as the initiative of MEZT. Is it not possible to regulate this whole objective through innovations? If you already believe in the nitrogen problem and you want to deal with it that way, I can imagine that it's just going to replace the whole buying out of farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u603	No, that's impossible. My colleague, Mrs Van der Wal, has just said something about this. That's not possible. We cannot achieve the full objective set through innovation and innovative techniques. It's part of the solution. It's not the answer. Then I have a few more questions in the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u604	Before you go on to the other questions: I think there were a few questions about earning power. I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u605	I'll be on food scarcity in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u606	Yes. The other block is the last one. Mrs Beckerman also had a question about earning power. Then we'll do the rest of the block. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u607	I'm stunned. Whether you agree or not, an operation of 25 billion is under way, with the entire agricultural sector turning upside down. Then I expect a government here that communicates with some clarity and clarity about a perspective for this sector. Then I do not expect an illegible letter in which coalition parties have been able to delete twice, a reference to the coalition agreement or the remark that we do not work with blueprints and that we are going to give insight but do not know when. Sorry. I'm really asking you to do this again. There are a lot of people watching who are terrified because they don't know how to move on with their business. You cannot have an answer to everything, but it is up to the government to outline a direction: this is why we think it is a necessary reform; these are the steps we will take and what will help you. I can't hear them. I can start listing them, but please try. If that can't happen now, it has to happen at another time, but we really can't do this to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u608	I think I just made a commitment, and that is the commitment I repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u609	This is the debate. This was the largest reform of the cabinet. You have a major debate on that. At that point, the government comes up with a general line: this is what we are doing. This is hard. It's not an easy reform at all. I'm not running away from that, but, with all due respect, we don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u610	I have outlined that this is a major debate on the perspective of agriculture in the Netherlands on sustainable agriculture. A large number of steps need to be taken and these steps need to be carefully taken. I have announced that it will take letters to do so. And I have also announced, on Mr Klaver's questions, to speed that up, so that is what I am going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u611	Mr. Chairman. I fear that we will have to plan a follow-up to this debate in the first week of September, because there is no prospect of this. And you can agree with what's here; the PvdA agrees with it more than the BoerCitizen Movement. But there's another thing about it: if you're suggesting something, and you're doing a huge procedure, and you're also letting every household in the Netherlands pay $6,000 for it.It's not all free what's going on here.You're gonna come up with a story of how we're gonna do that, what perspective do we have, what business farmers can expect? And that is not with reference to the coalition agreement... So I will ask, Mr President, for a debate in the first week after the recess, to hear that perspective. 'Cause I can tell that's not gonna happen tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u612	You can do that next Tuesday at the settlement. Mrs. Beckerman, yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u613	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This kind of frustrates me, too. Look, you can agree politically or disagree, but now we actually have no idea. I find that very difficult. The Minister says: yes, a lot of steps need to be taken. And it's also extremely complex. But it is useful to know where those steps go: go left, go right or go in a circle of polar bears? It remains completely unclear. I'm just trying to make it concrete. So we've reserved a huge amount of money. Some of them will go to buy-out and some of them will go to the future. The very simple question was: what part of it actually ends up with the banks, for example the Rabobank? Because we don't want us to break up the countryside as well after we've broken the ground. So we want those euros, that public money, to end up in that countryside. There's got to be an answer to that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u614	I am, of course, unable to answer Mrs Beckerman's question. We are on the eve of a major transition from agriculture. We're working on an area-oriented approach. We are going to that transition to a sustainable agriculture. I cannot possibly answer that question at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u615	I understand that, but you can, or the Cabinet should be able to give direction, because this is actually about a system change, a major system change. At least that's what's on the first page: we don't do onsjes more or less, this is about the essence. That's what it says on that first page. Then there must be an image of exactly where we're going? And there doesn't seem to be any. We just have a huge pot of money, but whether it ends up in the countryside or in large bank buildings, we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u616	We do have a pot of money: EUR 24.3 billion. A large part is devoted to the area-based approach, but a good part of the finance is used for a sustainable agricultural sector. The fund has yet to be set up, but we are coming up with an effect. That's also what I explained to your room. We come with letters for the content around ground bondage, around cycle. And you can ask me to clarify it here today. I have tried to clarify as clearly as possible what the direction of the cabinet is. It is not my direction, it is the direction of the cabinet. towards that sustainable agriculture; a direction with perspective for the agricultural entrepreneurs. And those uncertainties are there right now. I can't clear everything up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u617	Mrs. Beckerman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u618	Not "not everywhere," but everywhere. It is becoming a bit of a euphemism, because there is no clarity at all. We have 49 pages of perspective letter, but only the word "perspective" is concrete, and the rest is very vague. I'm gonna try one more time. I ask the question very simply. Does the Cabinet at least consider that the banks, the Rabobank, should also make a financial contribution to solving this problem? It's very simple: yes or no. There are all kinds of policies that state: the polluter pays. The Rabobank is one of the components here. What is the opinion of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u619	I just said that the whole chain is responsible for the farmers' income model. I've been given a solid assignment for that. I'm on it. I have to deal with all the links in that chain: with the retail, with the food service and with the banks. This must be done in order to make the farmer's income model more profitable in a good way. I'm gonna do that. I am going to set out a mandate for this in the next six months. That assignment will be completed after the summer. That task should lead to a better earning model for the farmer and for clarity in that chain, because that is really the approach to earning capacity. In the end, that farmer has to spend more money on that litre of milk or on delivering those kilos of potatoes. That's the assignment I got from your room. I'm gonna bet it, and that can't be noncommittal. As soon as that is not settled, I have the legal instrument to enforce it. I have also written in my letter that I see opportunities for this, also according to the French model. So it is not the case that there is nothing written in my letter about the future prospects for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u620	The last question by Mrs Van der Plas and then by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u621	I'm actually wondering what's going on at the Ministry. In May 2019, the judge's ruling was issued. In August and September, Mr De Groot made his statement to halve the livestock. On 1 October 2019 was the first protest. In the meantime, there have been many protests. What happened at the Ministry in the meantime, so we just can't get an answer tonight? When it comes to'sustainable', 'going to the cycle' and 'earning model', I talk about many more years ago that has been discussed. This is exactly what I said in the debate this afternoon. We hear "we're gonna do it, we're gonna do it," but nothing's happened yet. I wonder what's going on at the Ministry, which actually means there's nothing on paper yet. Otherwise, the Minister could have just answered here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u622	I believe that Mr Van der Wal and I have sent a letter to your Chamber. I thought it was in March, in which we outlined a number of lines through which we think we can deal with the problems. There was also a look at the letter on perspective for agriculture. That letter went to your room. It contains a large number of possibilities, which I believe can make the agricultural sector more sustainable. There's a financial instrument attached to it. I think that is a very good direction for the future of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u623	I will give Mr Bishop the chance, and then we will listen to Mr Thijssen. This is what I want to see with my colleagues. Then we go to the block to ask other questions. We'll start with the second term, because I think we've just made agreements. There will be a letter and a debate has been announced. Mr Bishop has been there for a while, and so has Mr Thijssen. Then we go to the block to ask other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u624	I'll try to let these be my last questions. The Minister has spoken with the sector, with the farmers. It cannot have escaped the attention of the Minister that there has been a two-way reaction from the sector. I'm telling you honestly what my reaction was: a huge disappointment about the perspective letter. What exactly is the perspective? At the same time, there is enormous concern about the national programme as laid down and, in particular, as it was translated into that colour card. On the one hand, it looks very hard. This 50% reduction by 2030 must and will be achieved. On the other hand, there is not yet a fraction of clarity about what that is, circular agriculture, and what this sustainability means, and mention it all, all the challenges that businesses already face without the nitrogen declaration. What is the Minister going to do to clarify this matter in the very short term towards the sector? As far as I'm concerned, that can't wait until September. The Minister must say: people, we must choose this course and work towards it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u625	Mr Bishop's questions were also raised by colleagues from Mr Bishop. I answered that. As a cabinet, we have tried to make a letter in which we outline the future for the agricultural sector: a sustainable, extensive agriculture in the Netherlands. This requires a number of instruments. We'll have to work it out in the near future. It's gonna take money. The fund still needs to be made available for this purpose. We just need a few steps. It's not just my colleague who needs steps. I need steps, too. I want to do whatever you want today, but I also have to take into account the order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u626	Finally, Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u627	I agree with a lot of colleagues who find this quite unacceptable. A map is being published that turns the entire agricultural sector upside down. It's a good thing there's a big pot of money in there to make that transition work. Farmers are now being challenged to start working in the coming year and to think about what their future business is. Then, of course, they're gonna reason on what the end business is and how they're gonna make their money. Then what's the pay model? That is exactly the question I have asked and what am I being told? The goal is no less farmers. There's got to be a earning model for an honest sandwich. There must be security of sales and the margins must be shared fairly. How is a farmer supposed to count on it to build a business model around his company of the future, which he wants to have in ten years or eight years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u628	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u629	I would like to ask one more specific question. The minister just said he might want to copy French law. If I understand correctly, it simply says: you will get at least the cost of your product. Is the firm commitment of this debate, then, that the Minister is saying that he is coming up with legislation and not with some kind of supply chain question? We know what the chain does: scaling up and a race to the bottom. Who's squeezing the chain? That's the farmer. Will the Minister come up with a law that says that there will be a minimum price so that farmers can get the cost back at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u630	I just told you what the Chamber's assignment was. I'm sure I'm gonna live up to that. Whether this should be done by the French method or by another method, I shall look at it. I wrote in my letter that I would take six months to do so. If the chain, the whole chain, including the banks, cannot make agreements, it will be legally enforceable and, as I have just said, I will see whether the French model is appropriate or whether we should do so in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u631	Thank you. No, Mr Thijssen, it's going to be a repeat now. I would now like to ask the Minister to answer the questions in the other block. Then we have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u632	Sure. I have another question from the Animal Party about zoonoses risks. As has been explained in my letter, because I have included some of this, an expert assessment is now taking place. Based on these results, we will see if they are involved in making plans within the area-oriented approach. So we'll come back to that later. Then there is a question from Mr Van Campen about derogation. I am not going to give a satisfactory answer to that either. It's an incredibly difficult conversation. Fortunately, we are still talking, but that does not mean that it has come to an end. The European Commission is incredibly critical. That has everything to do with the situation we have had for 20 years: we go to Brussels all the time and do not do what we have agreed. That's got us incredibly bad. Mr Van der Wal has just spoken about this. On the issue of derogation, it is constantly fighting against that image. So at the moment I cannot comment on where that is going to lead. Mr Omtzig's last comment on food scarcity. What about the next few weeks and months? We are facing a food shortage that we have not seen in decades, Mr Omtzigt said. With the approach that I have in mind, I am aiming for a sustainable food system that is future-proof and in which we bind strong nature and biodiversity together. This, in our view, ensures long-term food security. For the short term, there is no reason in the Netherlands to believe that we have problems with food security. Those were the questions that were asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u633	I have a question about the conclusion that remains to be drawn on what we need to do to substantially reduce the zoonoses risk in the Dutch livestock sector. I hope that's what the cabinet wants, because that's what the Chamber has asked. There will therefore be another opinion and, if I understand correctly, it will be looked into in the area-based approach. And we'll know that in two weeks, because that letter will come. No? What about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u634	It's two letters. A letter will follow on the zoonoses risks, along with my colleague from VWS. In addition, on previous questions in a committee debate, I have promised that we will see if we can place the zoonoses risks in the area-based approach. I do that together with my colleague Van der Wal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u635	I do not think it will help if farmers get news about nitrogen first and then hear about it: oh, wait a minute, it may also be important that livestock farming does not cause an unnecessary additional risk of crossing infectious diseases from animal to human, so here we have the ticket for nitrogen and here we have what comes out of the zoonoses analysis. Does the cabinet agree with me that it is so nice for farmers that if things have to change, then it is clear what exactly and that we have everything together. It's nothing new, is it? The Netherlands has already had zoonoses, the avian flu, the Q fever. We know what the risks are. I don't understand this fragmentation, and I don't think farmers understand it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u636	Maybe Mrs. Ouwehand doesn't understand what I'm trying to say. Together with my colleague from VWS, I promised the Chamber a letter on the risks associated with zoonoses. There will be an approach in the area-based approach, together with Mr Van der Wal, and then we will also see if we can reduce the zoonoses risks, for example by putting fewer poultry farmers on a leash. So we're dealing with those two cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u637	Okay. I only have one interruption left, so my last question is about the following. These are the two goals that are still excluded in the direction letter of the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. Zoonosis is coming. If you want to give farmers a future perspective, they must also know where they stand when it comes to animal welfare. I think it is unwise, really unwise, to do nature, climate and water well, but not zoonosis and animal welfare. Farmers all have to do with it. If you don't get it right at once and leave it to provinces, which may not be at all interested in animal welfare or zoonoses, then farmers keep saying: I long for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u638	I didn't say they were separate trajectories. Wherever we can, we're going to see if we can organize that in the area-based approach in the NPLG. I, too, have a mission to give animal husbandry a place. So we are trying to tackle a large proportion of these issues in a joint way. That is the objective of the NPLG.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u639	Thank you. Mr Boswijk of the CDA, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u640	I'm standing here with a little knot in my stomach. I have met a lot of farmers over the last few weeks and I have been in front of a lot of rooms, and I have to do it again in the next few weeks. That is an extremely difficult task. I keep saying, there's gonna be perspective. We have just heard that there is indeed a perspective: all sectors are proportionate to the bar. Innovation is also a component and there is customization if the WFD cannot be achieved. That's good. A perspective is also the earning model. I think that Minister Staghouwer has the most beautiful half of the mission, namely to tackle these chains once and for all, to come up with instruments to intensify and with those long-standing agricultural nature contracts, on which we tabled a motion a year ago. I am very sorry that none of this is there right now. Tomorrow I'm gonna be in front of a room and I honestly don't know what to tell you. The last point, Mr President, and that is where my question is about the derogation. I am very worried about that. Whether it does not come or part of it is really crucial when it comes to whether there is any perspective in some areas. I also wonder how this is going to relate to the area processes that have now begun. Isn't there a way to scale up? Do you think we should send the Prime Minister? It's all hands on deck. I also think that Europe should take us seriously. We come up with a package of 25 billion. I'm a little desperate, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u641	I have previously given written answers on the derogation. You've been able to read it. I have also just given answers on the derogation. My commitment is to get the derogation in the coming years. It's not like I'm completely hopeless. But I also said in reply to the questions that things would be different. We're still negotiating. So I cannot anticipate that. I am faced with a situation of one year in which I have no clarity towards Brussels. I had to catch up from 10 January of this year, when it was clear which way to go. I'm in Brussels almost every month. I am constantly in the process of consulting the Commission. That is the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u642	I have indicated in my contribution that the transition we are facing will have a major impact on the agricultural economy in our country. It calls for a bold, sharp vision of getting the chain ready for that. I have also referred in my contribution to a number of statements made by banks, from the retail sector, which are actually being looked away and are thought to be: it will not go so fast; it is being used too heavily to shrink livestock as a target rather than as a result of policy. I have a very simple question to ask the Minister: how does he listen to this kind of statement from such important, large parties in that agro-chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u643	The answer is incredibly clear and clear: we cannot accept that. That means I'm going to have conversations before the summer recess; I expect that to happen next week. I'm also having conversations with the chains. If we are six months further away, that is the space I am asking you to achieve it, and that has not led to results, then I am going to legally enforce it. This is one of the elements of a future perspective for the agricultural sector. It cannot be that the farmer is always the victim of the system we have grown to in the Netherlands in so many years. There really needs to be more bread on the shelf for the agricultural entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u644	As I pointed out in my speech, the attack on the agricultural sector is not only devastating for our farmers and their families and for our beautiful characteristic landscape, but it also affects our food supply. To what extent is the Dutch food security at stake? What are the consequences of nitrogen policy, which in any case will lead to a significant reduction in the number of farmers, for the way in which we can still provide our own food security?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u645	That's out of the question. There is no food shortage. There is no question of the long-term lack of food in the Netherlands. We have enough to produce for the Netherlands. There's a lot of food being exported. There is no question whatsoever that there will be shortcomings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u646	It is obvious logic that if the number of farms is reduced, at least less food will be produced in the Netherlands. Surely the Minister can't disagree with that? We export food, but we also import a lot of food. What is fundamental for the Forum for Democracy is that the Dutch agricultural sector is able to guarantee food security for the Dutch population at all times, especially in the current geopolitical playing field. Therefore, once again, my question is: what are the consequences of nitrogen policy for the extent to which the Dutch agricultural sector can provide food security for the Dutch population?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u647	There is no question at all of a situation in the Netherlands that where we go to a sustainable agricultural food system there would be shortages. 80% of agricultural products are exported. There is no risk of deficits in the Netherlands, even if there is a reduction in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u648	The Minister says that there is no food shortage at the moment. That's not what I'm saying. He mentions that 80% of agricultural products are exported. That is a somewhat false frame at all; a very large part of it is transit. Moreover, most of the agricultural sector is ornamental. I'm assuming the minister, like me, doesn't want to eat flower bulbs. At the moment, the Netherlands is too small to produce enough food for the 17.5 million people in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u649	No, I disagree with Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u650	Then I'm just gonna ask around. I'm just gonna get some facts. Currently, according to the CBS figures, the amount of land needed to provide for Dutch consumption is estimated at about three times the land area of the Netherlands, also known as the land footprint. Admittedly, for two thirds it is not about food consumption, but also about wood and paper, for example, but about one third of everything we want to eat in the Netherlands, the Dutch land footprint is already intended for Dutch consumption. At the moment, therefore, the Netherlands is too small to be able to provide sufficient food for all Dutch people. That's a definite fact. We import a lot of food now, but it is uncertain to what extent that can or cannot be guaranteed in the future. Does the Minister agree with the Forum for Democracy that it is fundamental that the Netherlands should always be able to provide its own food security?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u651	I think I know where Mr Van Meijeren is going with this. We import a lot of food. We're in a free trade system. We are in a European system. There is therefore no need to produce in the Netherlands for its own population. We are in a common system, in Europe and in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u652	In any case, I am glad that the monkey is finally coming out of the bag and the Minister acknowledges that the Netherlands cannot provide its own food supplies. He noted that this was not necessary at all, because we could import a great deal. But we have seen what can happen in the event of international tensions. Countries can say at any time: we stop food exports to the Netherlands. Surely we do not want to be dependent on other countries for our most primary living needs? That's food.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u653	We work very well together in a European system. We have also seen that at the moment a certain stream falls away, that is filled very quickly by other flows. That works and works very well. There is no need to see the Netherlands as an island.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u654	Mr President, I will conclude. I can only observe that the Minister is now assuming that in future we will be able to import food from abroad to the Netherlands. Firstly, I do not think that Dutch people are waiting for that at all. I think we would much rather have fresh products from our own farmers than all kinds of products coming from other countries, where there is much less sustainable production than here in the Netherlands. I find it very worrying that the Minister has not even thought about this and simply assumes that we can import that food, our most primary need for life, I shall continue to repeat it in the future. That's what I think is witnessing a very great naivety. That makes us too dependent on other countries. Food sovereignty is about the most important for the Dutch population in times of conflict in which we can end up. So we're taking incredible risks with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u655	This brings us to the end of the first term. I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then we'll start with the second term right away. Then we'll start with Mr. Bishop. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether it is right for Mr Omtzigt to make his contribution after Mr Bishop. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case. That's very collegial. I'll suspend the sitting for five minutes and then we'll start immediately with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u656	I ask everyone to take their place again, including in the public gallery. Welcome and thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, as the first speaker in the second term of office. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u657	Mr President, thank you, also to my fellow Members. Normally I thank the government for the clear answers. I'm sorry I can't do that. For one of the biggest operations of this cabinet period, 25 billion to solve the nitrogen problem, this is a false start. We must do that again in September, because the great danger is that the money will be spent soon and no problem will be solved. We want to hear something about food security, we want to hear something about perspective. I want a government in charge, and Mr Klaver will be tabling a motion on that later. I have two smaller motions, but also important for the summer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Nitrogen to make a number of work visits to farmers living near the German border and then to propose to the Chamber before the end of the summer how to minimise differences at the border,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, following the report on nitrogen of the focus group nitrogen, RIVM itself admits that ammonia has been imported from the sea as a correction factor and is not based on ammonia from the sea;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the RIVM, to adapt the calculation "" and later the model "" to the reality proposed by Prof. Lindeboom by abandoning the measurement correction and to publish within four weeks the new targets for the Wadden Islands and the coast,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Campen and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-273]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-274]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u658	This must at least solve it off the coast and the Wadden Islands, but there is, of course, a much and much greater task. And yes, it's somewhat disappointing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u659	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then I give the floor to Mr Bishop SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u660	Mr. Chairman. I'll start filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the starting note of the National Programme for Rural Areas, the 2030 target and the corresponding area targets could have a significant impact on many farm families and rural areas;]] [[Whereas an impact analysis of the socio-economic impact and taking account of these impacts is moved forward to the preparation of site plans;]] [[Whereas the Habitats Directive provides that socio-economic requirements and regional specificities must be taken into account when taking measures;]] [[Considers that, in view of the potentially large impact and complexity of implementation, it is also necessary to test the feasibility and socio-economic impact of the national frameworks;]] [[calls on the government to carry out the test or to update the national frameworks on the basis of this test before finalising the national frameworks for the nitrogen approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u661	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to implement, as a matter of priority, the PAS crisis legalisation programme and to allocate adequate funds from the planned transition fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u662	Motion three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Nitrogen Co-operation Newcoops wants to address innovative source-oriented emission reductions for nature and the release of authorised nitrogen emission space;]] [[Considers that bottom-up solutions, including a earning model for emission reduction, merit valuation and space, as they offer prospects for farmers who want to move forward and deliver emission reductions for both nature and development;]] [[calls on the government to allow initiatives from the agricultural sector for a bottom-up approach to innovative emission reductions for nature and external netting and to address the nitrogen problem accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u663	Mr President, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to establish the environmental value for 2030 in consultation with the provinces, as competent authority for most Natura 2000 sites, taking into account Article 2 of the Habitats Directive and the uncertainties surrounding the use of critical deposition values as a measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u664	Mr. Chairman. I always respect parliamentary practice to thank the rulers. I would also like to thank them, but unfortunately it is a bit of a formalistic formula. I found the answer somewhat disappointing and I hope that in a follow-up discussion we can simply move forward and make better progress on the whole issue of agriculture and transition. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u665	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u666	Mr. Chairman. We've been standing here for a little over 12 hours. Twelve hours of debate and nothing has changed at all. As the PVV predicted, what the coalition shows here is a bit of a play for the stage: a little bit of bubbling, a little bit of choking, but not going through. The policy goes on: 32 billion for destroying the countryside, for bullying the farmers away. Also tonight, both the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union refuse to say that they are against the expropriation of farmers. They bow to D66 and to Brussels. Its own job is more important than the farmers' future. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has always been and must remain a farmer's country. A Netherlands without farmers is unthinkable and unacceptable. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u667	Thank you. A special welcome to a whole group of farmers who drove here after milking cows. That's great. We've been taken care of for tomorrow's food again. Perfect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the declaration of the Natura 2000 sites, which are not sufficiently surfaced, is disproportionate in relation to the socio-economic damage caused by the conservation policy;]] [[noting that larger Natura 2000 sites are far less often subject to significant nitrogen overload than small Natura 2000 sites;]] [[Whereas, at the time of the designation of Natura 2000 sites, insufficient consideration has been given to the fragmentation of, moreover, too small nature areas for socio-economic damage;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to launch talks in Brussels with the aim of reviewing the Natura 2000 policy in order to deprive the Natura 2000 status of areas of insufficient size,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that scientific authorities such as the PBL and RIVM claim that the critical deposition values are an indicator and do not say anything about the actual state of nature;]] [[noting that the inclusion of KDWs as a result obligation ensures that farmers are restored in the short term and that correlation with nature restoration is not detectable;]] [[Whereas nature policy should be an integral policy, taking into account not only nitrogen but also hydrology and climate;]] [[calls on the Government to remove KDW's performance obligation from the law and to use the KDW's as the policy indicator they are,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-280]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u668	This motion was also tabled by Mr Eppink of JA21 and by the previous motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the coming years hundreds to thousands of farmers may stop, whether or not by compulsory buy-out or expropriation;]] [[having noted that the Planning Office for the Environment, the PBL, wrote in an opinion to the Cabinet that meeting all nitrogen measures had a major impact on agriculture;]] [[calls on the government to identify the social, economic and social consequences of the possible disappearance of thousands of farms, including job losses, direct and indirect loss of the economic contribution of the agricultural sector to the e.g. the Netherlands, the impact on our landscape, landscape management, the impact on local food production and the impact on social cohesion in rural areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u669	Where I said "to play cards," I meant "to map." Stop the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u670	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u671	Mr. Chairman. This debate was a total mockery and a blow to the face of our farmers. Technically incompetent and no perspective. That is why I have the following motions on behalf of BVNL. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to reduce livestock;]] [[Whereas the agricultural sector is essential for food security;]] [[Whereas the agricultural sector is essential for the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government not to buy out farmers but to leave them alone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the designation of Natura 2000 sites has led to the urge to reduce nitrogen emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to return to the EU to lift the obligations in relation to Natura 2000 sites in order to remove the basis of the nitrogen problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted the government's intention to reduce nitrogen oxide and ammonia emissions;]] [[Whereas buying out farmers is the least logical and most costly option;]] [[calls on the government to focus instead on innovative solutions for nitrogen reduction, such as ammonia capture and conversion into fertilizer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-283]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-284]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u672	And then... [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch farmers have to comply with unfeasible nitrogen standards, such as critical deposition values, even according to the Plan Bureau for the Environment;]] [[Considering that the most recent nitrogen plans of the cabinet, which do not deviate from the KDWs as a result obligation, may require thousands of farmers to disappear;]] [[noting that this has caused great unrest in Dutch society, not least among our food makers;]] [[rejects the nitrogen policy pursued so far,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u673	Mr. Chairman. I would like to express the hope that this cabinet and these two ministers will one day come to their senses and we will be able to look forward to a sound policy again, in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u674	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. We're going to see Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u675	Mr. Chairman. We started this morning by noticing that there was a letter of perspective in which there is no perspective. Twelve and a half hours of debate later, that perspective did not come to light either. All kinds of commitments have been made, but there is no "desperately attractive" alternative to continuing to farm in a good, sustainable way. Mr. Chairman. We have tried to make real concrete proposals in this debate, for example, to tackle industrial and transport emissions at the same time, to ensure that the countryside is not distorted and that the money really ends up in rural areas. I do not think that has been enough. Mr. Chairman. We think it is important that the banks, the Rabobank, also pay their fair share. It has been said that it will have to be. For us, it is really crucial that the money does not disappear in those bank buildings, but that it ends up in the countryside. Because we see provisions disappear there. We see the countryside crumbling. That is why we would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch agriculture has intensified significantly in recent decades;]] [[noting that this intensification was largely financed by the banks, in particular the Rabobank;]] [[noting that banks have made a great deal of profit by increasing the scale and intensification of Dutch agriculture;]] [[calls on the government to allow banks to pay their fair share and to make proposals to this end, such as the introduction of a solidarity levy, and to inform the Court of Auditors of this for the purpose of examining the 2023 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u676	Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I have signed motions from colleagues, because if you are going to ensure that farmers can stay, you must also make sure that you do something about this unfair world trade and unfair competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u677	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Tjeerd de Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u678	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the coalition agreement is a diptych. We have two ministers for a reason. We have seen one minister who has started very quickly and is really pointing in the direction, whether you agree with it or not. D66 supports the Minister for Nature and sees real progress in that dossier, no matter how difficult and difficult it will be. The response by the Minister for Agriculture was disappointing. I regret to say that the farmers are being sent into the woods in this way. If you have a diptych and you say you can't do this anymore, then as a government you are also obliged to say: that's how we're going to do it; that's how you can make your money. Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. I'm gonna start soon. The first motion concerns D66's concern about implementation in the provinces. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the provinces have an important role to play in the nitrogen approach and that several of them have indicated that they will not or wish to comply with the government's nitrogen policy;]] [[Whereas this restraint may slow down, which means, for example, that housing cannot be built;]] [[Whereas the Minister has introduced various escalation mechanisms into the National Rural Area Programme, such as the use of spatial planning tools to pursue decisions;]] [[Whereas, where appropriate, the Minister shall use perseverance according to an intervention ladder;]] [[Whereas the escalation mechanisms need to be further developed and the intervention ladder is also being developed;]] [[calls on the Government to explore all possible escalation mechanisms towards provinces and to prepare them as quickly as possible to avoid any delay in the nitrogen approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u679	Mr. Chairman. Then there's a motion on the chain approach. I'm going to read it to you very quickly, because I have three motions left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement calls for the development of circular agriculture towards feed, manure and water targets;]] [[Whereas a farmer should be free to direct his holding on targets rather than resources;]] [[Whereas the transition to circular agriculture begins with the processing industry, suppliers and supermarkets;]] [[Whereas this transition starts with a fair price for primary producers;]] [[Whereas private quality systems can translate the objectives set into practice;]] [[calls on the government to ensure, in a non-binding way, that the transition to circular agriculture, including a fair earning model, gets a permanent place in these private quality systems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Tjeerd de Groot, Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Campen and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u680	Mr. Chairman. I didn't use eight of my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u681	Yes, but you really need to keep your introduction a little shorter. That is also good for the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u682	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Then a motion on perspective for biological and nature-inclusive circular farmers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the approach of pioneers in circular agriculture, such as organic and nature-inclusive cycle farmers, already makes a positive contribution to the land targets for nitrogen, nature and water;]] [[whereas in the Farm to Fork strategy, the European Commission aims to achieve 25% organic production by 2030 and that all countries should contribute to this;]] [[Whereas the leaders of the transition to circular agriculture are needed to produce food in a responsible manner in balance with the environment;]] [[noting that approximately half of the organic holdings in the Netherlands are located in an area with more than 47% directional nitrogen reduction;]] [[calls on the government to support leaders in circular agriculture, such as organic and nature-inclusive circular farmers, in order to continue their business as far as possible within the area-based approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Tjeerd de Groot, Mr Van Campen and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u683	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement includes the promotion of new earning models and carbon storage in building materials, also because this offers great opportunities for CO savings;]] [[Whereas the growing of fibre crops in Extensification Areas may contribute to new earning models for farmers without any buy-out or depreciation contribution, but the conditions for a replacement earning model are currently lacking;]] [[calls on the government to develop policies to stimulate carbon storage in building materials, while developing a generic method to quickly produce carbon certificates for combinations of crops and insulation and building materials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tjeerd de Groot, Mr Boulakjar, Mr Boswijk and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for my long introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u685	I call Mr Thijssen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have indeed talked about a very far-reaching process in the Netherlands. That process is very important for nature and housing. I still have the feeling: is this a talk album and a talkal process or is it really, really going to happen? I hope, along with my group, that it will really happen now. I hope we're going to take these big steps. However, I notice from the Minister that it is going to be a very difficult year for the PAS detectors, and perhaps also for housing, and perhaps also for a lot of companies. That is why I would like to ask whether it is not able to copy the Belgian approach to peak loaders. In this way, she can make room for these troubles more quickly. Then the other part of the transition. After the transition there must be a model of earning for the reformed farmers. I really wonder what the Minister has been doing for the past six months. He now wants to make agreements with the chain, while we know that the chain has steered scaling over the past decades, leading to a balding in rural areas. In the letter on which Mr Klaver is going to table a motion, I want him to make it really clear what the farmers' income model is. That's very important. And then it's about an unlikely amount of money. My group believes it is important, like a lot of other parties, that there should be a fair contribution. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the agri-industrial complex of farmers has benefited most from intensive livestock farming;]] [[Whereas it is unfair to allow only farmers and taxpayers to bear the costs of the nitrogen crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how banks and suppliers and customers with long-term contracts are obliged to make a bail-in that bears a substantial share of the transition costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Thijssen, Mr Klaver, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Campen, Mr Boswijk, Mr Grinwis and Mr Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u687	And then one final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the need for housing, the energy transition and the sustainability of our economy are hampered by the problem of nitrogen;]] [[whereas even if there is an inevitable path to nitrogen reduction, the nitrogen space released is likely to be limited;]] [[Whereas, in the case of free trade of nitrogen rights, there is no social direction at destination;]] [[calls on the government to give priority to social housing and renewable energy projects over motorways, airports or villas in the distribution of nitrogen rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thijssen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-293]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u688	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thanks to the Minister for Nature for her good defence of nature interest. The conclusion in advance, and it remains, was that, unfortunately, despite the fact that I greatly appreciate her defence, it is not enough for nature and is not clear enough for farmers and not fair enough for them. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that environmental research shows that the government's target of halving nitrogen emissions by 2030 is insufficient to bring nature into good condition and that further reductions are needed, including within agriculture;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the General Court and RIVM have warned that the government has always been far too optimistic about the effects of "sustainable" innovations;]] [[calls on the government to be honest with the farmers about the task and transition that we are still facing and no longer saddle them with false solutions as technical laps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-294]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u689	Mr. Chairman. The criticism is mainly directed at the Minister of Agriculture, who continues to saddle farmers with a nitrogen package, while we do not yet know what they have to meet when it comes to animal welfare and zoonoses. You just can't do that! And now the Minister refuses to join with the end of imports of unfair competition products. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas European trade agreements with countries which are able to apply production standards in agriculture that are demonstrably lower than those in Dutch agriculture, such as Canada, lead to unfair competition for Dutch farmers;]] [[acknowledges that this type of trade agreement further worsens the perspective of Dutch farmers;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the bill in the First Chamber for ratification of the Trade Treaty with Canada (CETA) and to inform the European Commission that the Netherlands has formally rejected CETA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unfair to ask farmers to be sustainable, but no reduction targets have yet been set for aviation;]] [[whereas there is certainly no room for more nitrogen and CO emissions for the opening of Lelystad Airport;]] [[believes that the opening would not be explained to farmers who would have to stop their farms and those who would be affected by nuisances;]] [[Calls on the Government of Lelystad Airport not to permanently open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bishop, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Weerdenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-295]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver, Mr Thijssen, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u690	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u691	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then we will listen to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u692	Mr President, thank you. We discussed two letters. First of all, the start note National Programme Rural Area. Compliments for the Minister. The answer was good. She's been clear. This letter, I note, is standing up. There was a lot of stuff going on before. Things should be adjusted, goals should be different, tickets. None of that happened. This stands and this is a good starting point. In other words, it's a good start note. I'm happy about that. We are going to talk about this further, because we really have wishes for where it can be done better and where it can be done differently, but our basic attitude is positive. I cannot say that about the perspective paper. To put it bluntly: he gets a fat insufficient. We have to do that again. We've already talked about that in the Chamber. For example, there was a strong debate in the Chamber on what should or should not be done with regard to the nitrogen problem, but we are united that this cannot be done. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen has come up with a directional plan for a reduction in nitrogen;]] [[Whereas the Minister of LNV should provide a perspective for agriculture and farmers, including a earning model;]] [[calls on the government to send a letter well before Prinsjesdag containing all the political choices for the future of Dutch agriculture and the future prospects of farmers;]] [[calls on the government to draw up examples of future agricultural farm plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Van Campen, Mr Boswijk, Mr Tjeerd de Groot, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Koekkoek, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Thijssen, Mr Grinwis, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u693	Mr. Chairman. I say to Minister Staghouwer: this is a yellow card. It's gotta be better. I find it very firm that something must be done about the quality of our nature. We need to reduce nitrogen. I am also very clear about what this means for farmers. Some companies will have to close down. But that cannot be without perspective, and you are responsible for that perspective as a minister. For Prinsjesdag we expect better, substantive answers to this and not just processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u694	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u695	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is facing a historical housing shortage and that house prices are in danger of becoming priceless;]] [[noting that the unprecedentedly strict nitrogen rules prevent accelerated housing;]] [[calls on the Government to consider temporary emergency housing as a compelling reason of public interest to derogate from nitrogen legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to adapt its nitrogen policy, whereby:]] [[take measurements and facts instead of models and calculations;]] [[the actual state of nature is assessed and the other determining and influencing factors (in addition to nitrogen) are examined;]] [[the nature management necessary for the conservation of the designated species and the extent to which they are/were complied with;]] [[identify the actual unfeasible nature targets, followed by adaptation, supported by research and measurements;]] [[technology and innovation provide the basis for solutions where legal sustainability is a prerequisite;]] [[a perspective is offered to farmers, partly from the point of view of wanting to be a reliable government, also for so-called PAS detectors;]] [[maintaining social cohesion in rural areas;]] [[calls on the Government to report on progress in three months' time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eppink and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-299]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eppink and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u696	Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I agree with the comments made by Mr Omtzigt on the ministerial duo. It wasn't a convincing presentation. I think that there should be more conviction to deal with these major problems, because in this way it seems to be some sort of administrative exercise. There's a lot at stake for a lot of people. That needs to be clarified, I think, in the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u697	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Campen, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u698	Mr President, four motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hordijk Committee states that the Dutch measuring and modelling instruments are of sufficient to good quality and therefore suitable;]] [[noting that the Committee also recommends reducing uncertainties where possible, for example by better validating models with measurements;]] [[Considers that a nationwide NH and NO measurement system can contribute in the long term to legally sustainable authorisation at project level;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with RIVM, WUR, OnePlanet and TNO, to take control and to draw up a plan of action for a nationwide measurement system for emission and deposition of NH and NO in the framework of the National Knowledge Programme for Nitrogen (NKS);]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber, in the short term, the progress, results and conclusions of the National Knowledge Programme Nitrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Programme for Rural Areas clearly sets targets for nitrogen reduction (NH);]] [[believes that other sectors such as industry and mobility should also contribute to a balanced reduction of nitrogen in order to restore nature;]] [[Whereas the Remkes Committee indicated that the best generic approach to NO reduction could be taken, unless there was a major cause of NO deposition near a vulnerable nature reserve;]] [[Calls on the Government, on the basis of the climate measures, to clarify the impact of the planned industrial climate measures and mobility to reduce nitrogen, whether the Cabinet considers this to be balanced and, if not, what measures can be taken to make this balanced;]] [[Calls on the Government to critically assess the major causes of NO and NH deposition in Natura 2000 sites, which are significantly sustainable and whether additional measures and means are needed to improve nature;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2023 to take additional measures if it so wishes, so that the balanced reduction targets for industry and mobility were also set in July 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a national monitoring report shows the state of implementation and results of the nature conservation declaration in Natura 2000 sites;]] [[considers that it is important for society to understand the need for, effects and results of measures to restore nature and reduce nitrogen;]] [[calls on the government to develop a public-friendly digital dashboard that allows everyone to understand the state, the task and the progress of nature restoration in a transparent and transparent way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Grinwis, Boswijk and Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-301]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Boswijk, Grinwis and Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-302]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Grinwis, Boswijk and Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u699	And the very last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the deployment of innovations is part of the toolbox of provinces in order to achieve a reduction in nitrogen emissions;]] [[Considering that their deployment potential varies widely from region to region and that there is uncertainty about the legal sustainability of the emission factors of innovations on the Rav list;]] [[considers that innovations should be a full part of the solution for reducing nitrogen emissions, but that legal sustainability is essential;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine with the sectors which innovations are successful or have great potential to significantly reduce and secure nitrogen emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the legal uncertainties of innovations on the Rav list, to make proposals to remove these uncertainties and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Boswijk, Grinwis and Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u700	At your service.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u701	Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u702	Mr President, thank you, also to the rulers. The Christian Union Group still needs more justice and a concrete perspective that our food producers can earn a fair and good living on the day after tomorrow. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has published guidance reduction targets for livestock farming, but not yet for other sectors including aviation, transport and industry;]] [[whereas the Remkes Committee recommends that both NH and NO emissions should be halved by 2030 and that the coalition agreement states that all sectors should make their proportional nitrogen contribution;]] [[points out that each sector reduces its share of nitrogen emissions equally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the starting note includes a generic proportion of 12 kilotons of ammonia as starting point, but that according to this note this can be adjusted upwards based on additional deployment;]] [[noting that the map with directional emission reduction targets is very detailed and that a more area-oriented classification is also possible, for example according to the classification of the Cultural Heritage Agency;]] [[noting that ammonia emission sources are excluded from agriculture;]] [[calls on the government to also provide the provinces with maps with variations on policy baselines, including a higher generic proportion of ammonia than 12 kilotons as starting point, a more area-oriented approach and ammonia emissions from industrial sources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the baseline path of nitrogen emission estimates from the KEV 2020, with the reference estimate for 2018, is dated and does not contain much policies and new developments identified and planned by now;]] [[Invites the Government to fully update the baseline path for nitrogen emissions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of water or energy scarcity, a series of displacements and cut-off plans have been drawn up, but such a policy framework is lacking in the event of nitrogen scarcity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how more control over the distribution of scarce nitrogen space can be achieved when granting permits;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the monitoring of industrial permits and to this end to improve the information position of the competent authority in such a way as to ensure equal treatment of choke-off emissions from industrial and agricultural undertakings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas extensive food production at present is too often made impossible by overly high rent prices or under-supporting party;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan of action to allow large-scale operators such as land-based organisations, the National Real Estate Company, churches and others to take responsibility for providing perspective for their current tenants and to switch to more extensive and nature-inclusive food production and to make it possible and profitable on their land,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-305]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boswijk and Mr Van Campen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-306]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boswijk and Mr Van Campen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-307]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boswijk and Mr Van Campen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-308]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grinwis, Mr Boswijk, Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Van Campen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-309]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u703	Thank you, Mr Grinwis. Then we'll go to Mr. Boswijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u704	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been a long day. As a CDA, we had quite a few points. Unfortunately, I have to say that there are a lot of things that have not yet been clarified. But the Minister has clearly confirmed that all sectors are at stake. My colleagues have just tabled some motions on my behalf. Maybe we'll hear more about aviation tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has indicated that in cases where nitrogen emissions ensure that you will never reach the KDW according to our motion, it is possible to customize. That is an important point. There will be a separate memo on how the socio-economic impact can be taken into account. That too is an important point. The Minister has also indicated that innovation can indeed be as large an instrument as any other scheme. That too is essential. I just expressed my frustration about the perspective. I'm not going to repeat it here. I've got three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that billions are earmarked to restore nature and provide the agricultural sector with a sustainable perspective;]] [[noting the importance of monitoring the effectiveness of the measures;]] [[Considering that Maatwerk with Meetwerk provides insight into nature organisations, farmers and governments and generates support for the area-based approach;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to encourage more provinces to work with Maatwerk with Meetwerk as part of the area-oriented approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the provinces are now in the process of drawing up plans for achieving the directional reduction targets;]] [[Whereas several provincial directors have opposed the targets imposed;]] [[Whereas the province is an administrative layer with independent powers and autonomy;]] [[calls on the government to direct the provinces in how nitrogen policy and budget are used for investment in innovation, relocation of businesses and buy-backs, provided that the sum of all provinces but leads to 50% nitrogen reduction in 2030 and the water and climate challenges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that to achieve nitrogen reduction now the focus is mainly on the stopper regime, which includes a professional ban, while this does not provide a perspective for the keepers and start-ups;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement also agreed that relocation, innovation, management measures and extension are opportunities to achieve nitrogen reduction;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward as soon as possible a comprehensive set of instruments, including for innovations, a land-based management measures impact scheme (e.g. by the WUR), a mover scheme (without professional ban) and attractive long-term agricultural nature management schemes, and to inform the Court of Auditors about this in budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Campen, Mr Grinwis, Mr Bishop, Mr Koekkoek and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-310]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Campen and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-311]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Boswijk, Mr Van Campen, Mr Grinwis, Mr Bishop and Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-312]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u705	I had asked two more questions that had not yet been answered. Very briefly. The first was about the NNN areas where farmers have volunteered for agricultural nature management and are now faced with a very high reduction rate. I'm assuming the county can also deviate from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u706	Your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u707	My second question was about frontrunners. Suppose you built your stable in 2017, a very durable stable, according to the current standard still sustainable. Then you will also be confronted with an additional task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u708	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Koekkoek, Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u709	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions, no introduction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands Nature Network should eventually form the contiguous Pan-European Ecological Network (PEEN) together with the natural areas in other European countries;]] [[calls on the government to focus the area-based approach on considering whether, when creating buffer zones, they fit into a European nature network, beyond which nature-inclusive farmers can exist,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-313]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u710	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the sustainability of agricultural holdings leads farmers to run into laws and regulations which impede the sustainability and experimentation of agricultural holdings;]] [[Considering that the area-based approach will benefit from a good exchange between government and farmers, taking into account sustainable practices that strengthen earning capacity and nature;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that farmers who have questions are given a clear point of contact in the area-based approach where they can go and are helped to make the necessary transition, identifying the point of contact legal and financial bottlenecks and working together to eliminate them as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this security of existence should be part of the assessment of the territorial approach;]] [[noting that farmers are often unable to make sustainable investments because they are not profitable and financing is not provided or because farmers do not have sufficient resources to build up a certain existence;]] [[calls on the government to make a socio-economic impact analysis mandatory in the area plan, with the aim of providing sufficient security for the earning capacity, business continuity and financing of investments for permanent agricultural entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek and Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-314]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koekkoek and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u711	Thank you, Madam President. It is essential, vitally important, that our Dutch farmers are always able to guarantee food security for all Dutch people. Unfortunately, the Minister has indicated that he does not share this view. According to the Minister, we can also import our food from other countries. This makes ourselves incredibly vulnerable and takes enormous risks, especially in view of all the tensions in the geopolitical playing field. For our essentials, we should always be independent from other countries. The cabinet should always put the Dutch interest and food security of all Dutch people first. The cabinet should stimulate our agricultural sector. Instead, they're gonna kill this one. We can never accept this. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the future of the agricultural sector is under serious pressure;]] [[Whereas it is essential that the Netherlands be independent of other countries for the food security of the Dutch population;]] [[calls on the government to enable the Dutch agricultural sector to ensure food security for the Dutch population at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meijeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33576-316]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u712	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u713	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. The directors have indicated that they need about twenty minutes to give the motions an appreciation and answer the few questions asked. I'm suspending the meeting until 11.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u714	I give the floor to the Minister to give her appreciation of the motions tabled and to answer two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u715	Mr President, thank you. I have two more questions from Mr Boswijk of the CDA. The first question is about the NNN. The answer to that is: yes, we offer tailor-made solutions. Then the question about the sustainable stable. This approach is a transition to sustainable agriculture. Companies that already work sustainably are less burdensome for nature. It is therefore not logical to focus on this in the area process. The honest story is that I can't completely rule it out either. But we'll focus on that. Mr. Chairman. I'll go straight to the motions, given the time. Mrs Van der Plas just asked if I could make her motions last. I don't know by heart which numbers they are. I'm gonna do my best to filter it out, but then you know I'm gonna do it separately, so she'll be back in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u716	All right. I'm going to look with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u717	Great. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 273 gets judgment, Room. Good to make such a work visit. The motion in part No. 274: dissuade. The motion in part No. 275, I don't recommend it. That has to do with order. The motion in part No. 276 gets judgment Chamber, provided I can explain the motion as a request to find means to speed up the legalization of PAS notifications. The motion in part No. 277 gets judgment Chamber, provided within objectives and budget. The motion in part No. 278 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 279 doesn't ask for an opinion from the cabinet. The motion in part No. 280 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 281 we advise against. The motion in part No. 282...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u718	The motion in part No. 280 belongs to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u719	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u720	The same applies to the motion in part No. 281 and the motion in part No. 282.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u721	The motions on the documents Nos. 280, 281 and 282 I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u722	Yeah, we'll get it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u723	Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 283. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The motion in part No. 284 I must advise against. There is no chance of travelling to Europe again, as I said in the debate. The motion in part No. 285 I must advise against. The motion in part No. 286 is not up to the cabinet. The motion in part No. 288 gets judgment Chamber, but I really want to say that I have every confidence that the provinces are going to do this. I understand the motion and I'm giving that judgment Chamber, but I have real faith in the provinces. I attach great importance to making that very clear. The motion in part No. 290 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 292 is judged by the Chamber, with the study of how agro-industrially complex funds from the transition fund can be made more profitable. The motion in part No. 293, I don't recommend it. The motion in part No. 294: dissuade. The motion in part No. 296: dissuade. The motion in part No. 299: dissuade. The motion in part No. 300: dissuade. The motion in part No. 301: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 302: Judgment Room, provided we... I need room for exit towards early 2023. If I don't, it's gonna be very exciting because the KEV can't be exactly estimated. I'll do my best, but I'm gonna need the space here for a walk to early 2023. Then the motion to part No. 303. He gets judgment room if it can be an ingrowth model. If it has to be fully loaded in one go, we're not gonna make it. As long as it's a growth model, the judgment is Chamber. The motion in part No. 304: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 305 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 306 is the Court of Justice, if I may explain it so that the provinces can use the instruments of the RIVM. Then the motion to part No. 307. It's being taken over. The motion in part No. 308 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u724	Before you continue... You want the motion in part No. Take over 307?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u725	Excuse me, Judge Room. The motion in part No. 308...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u726	The motion in part No. 307 gets judgment, Chamber. I understand Mrs Beckerman doesn't have this motion, but I do have it. That is the motion by Mr Grinwis/Boswijk/Van Campen on the basic path for nitrogen emissions. Mrs. Beckerman isn't right, but we are. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u727	Can I move on to the motion in part No. 308, chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u728	Mrs. Beckerman gets a custom set. Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u729	The motion in part No. 308: judgment of the Court of Justice. I have already promised on 1 April to speed up the monitoring of companies' licences, and not just industry's. So it applies to everyone. The motion in part No. 310 gets judgment Chamber, provided I can interpret it in such a way that it is not prescribed. I agree that a tailor-made approach with Measuring can lead to more support. I really agree with that, but besides Maatwerk with Meetwerk there are also other regional measurement projects. On the contrary, I want to encourage them to learn from each other. So if I can interpret it that way, it's "judge chamber." The motion in part No. 311 is judged by the Chamber, provided that the interpretation is that municipalities have autonomy within the frameworks, taking into account county-cross-border deposition effects, appropriate within the financial frameworks of the Transition Fund, achieving the main designation climate, water, nature and nitrogen and in particular for nature to prevent the deterioration. Just to be sure, within that framework, the judgment is Chamber. The motion in part No. 313: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 314: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 315: Judgment of the Court of Justice. Then the motion to part No. 280. It's being dissuaded. The motion in part No. 281 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 282 is not recommended. With that, I've had all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u730	Thank you. I have one more question. Mr Bishop's motions were judged Chamber, provided that the interpretation was in accordance with a number of requirements. Only Mr Bishop is not present. Of course, that is up to Mr Bishop, you cannot do anything about it, but just for the supporter of the SGP: if it is interpreted differently, what is your appreciation when Mr Bishop cannot agree with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u731	It's really with this appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u732	Otherwise, the motions will be dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u733	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u734	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u735	About the motion in part No. 277. D66 is also for bottom-up initiatives, but that Newkoop model is not a good example. Nitrogen space is just not owned, but it's a permit, a temporary exemption. Did I understand correctly that the Minister embraces bottom-up initiatives, but doesn't say that you can lose your license space or play other tricks, which in fact means you're not going to meet the area targets? 'Cause I hope they're the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u736	Yes, the area targets are first and with extra netting you always have your additionality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u737	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the other minister to give his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u738	A few more, Madam President. The motion in part No. 287 is about the banks and solidarity levy. It's being dissuaded. In doing so, I made a commitment that I intend to talk to the banks and make arrangements. The motion in part No. 289 gets judgment, Chamber. The considerations mentioned in Mr De Groot's motion are in line with the course and commitment you have read in my letter. Of course, I'm happy with that support. The motion focuses on private quality systems in which the objectives set have to be translated into practice. I very much agree with D66 that agricultural entrepreneurs should be allowed to produce in a sustainable way. An honest earning model is central to this as far as I am concerned. As I have also indicated, I will address the chain parties accordingly. That's not noncommittal. I read this motion in such a way that it asks me to commit myself to promoting a level playing field and preventing freeriding. I'd like to see how this request works out. I would therefore like to make a point of explaining exactly how it can have a non-binding effect. If you give me that freedom, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 291 gets judgment, too, Room. The motion in part No. 295, I don't recommend. The motion in part No. 298 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 309 gets judgment, too, Room. The motion in part No. 312 will be judged by Chamber, provided that I may take the motion as follows. I'll do a recon. This concerns the wide range of instruments required in the motion for a resolution. I will inform the Chamber about this for the budgetary procedure, and I will work on it on the basis of the reconnaissance. So this is a step in the right direction, so that I am sure that there is a real need for the instruments that I am working on and that they are doing what they are meant to do. The motion in part No. 316 is not recommended. Madam President, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u739	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-7.u740	I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive reply. I would like to thank the spokesmen and, of course, the people in the public gallery. It was nice and nice that you could be here, despite everything, I'm just saying. I would also like to thank those who have followed the debate in a different way. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. Thanks again to everyone.
