ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the main issues of digital commerce. A warm welcome to the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We have a full house today in box K. It is also an important debate. We have 12 participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Leijten from the SP Group. Mr Dassen had lost his phone for a while, but the chairman also helped. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	We have three rulers, but I'm just waiting for them to pay attention to the content as well. Because we have waited a long time for this debate. We expect a lot from this cabinet when it comes to digital matters. There has even been a Secretary of State for Digital Affairs in this cabinet. But my question is exactly what she's about. Last week we had a debate on the data centres and the strategy for the digital infrastructure. There were three ministers at the table, but no Secretary of State. And when we asked, the Minister for Economic Affairs said: oh, but she is not about that at all. Well, that's problematic. We in the House of Representatives have found in recent years that we need to have much more strategic, substantive debates on digital matters and we are faced with five or six directors who are going to do so. If you look at the money for ICT investments, we've figured it out. You see, it's 5.6 billion for the ICT systems we have. We must all call on ministers to do so separately. One of them ate a little cheese and the other one didn't. When a corona app needs to be developed, a whole vision needs to be made for how we do it in a strategically sound way, which should ultimately be the basis on which the government stands. I would like us to agree today to implement the Wörsdörfer motion, which was adopted in 2018 and which means that there will be a separate digital budget. The SP also understands that it can't do that in one go. But I would like us to end up putting the government's digital spending in a single budget, so that the Chamber can see, understand and control that. Insight gives a view. As far as digital matters are concerned, everything is digital nowadays. We can't do without it anymore. But we don't have a government with a vision for that. We don't want Google's data advertising, Facebook, all of you. But we also don't want a data record from the government. Then when you look at the coalition agreement, you see that it's about data, economy, opportunities, opportunities, opportunities, buying, buying, buying, earning, earning, earning. But at what price? No balance has been made between privacy, the protection of human rights and the use of data. We have seen the risk, or rather the consequences, of the surcharge scandal. That hasn't even been resolved yet, but the government's just gonna keep going. This Secretary of State does not want to set off the algorithmic decision-making process, because then the government will be shut down. And that when she can't guarantee that there will be no more discrimination. The unlawfulness is truly shocking. And then we have a secretary of state who's not about it. Last year the Council of State issued a very good report, an opinion to us, to the House of Representatives, and to the government as legislative power, a power we share, on how to deal with algorithmic decision-making in the General Administrative Law Act. No response from the cabinet! Just no response! That report is about protecting people from their government. But no response, a year later still not! I don't get it. How is that possible? Where's that? Is that because the Secretary of State isn't about it? Ultimately, of course, the Minister of the Interior is about the General Administrative Law Act. So I find it really sad and very shocking that we are going to have a major debate here on digital matters, but we have no vision and no understanding of the resources. We can't send for that. And yes, we can talk about cyber security. That's what we talk about all the time. We're talking privacy and algorithms. That's what we talk about all the time. But if you don't have a bottom to stand on, you go swimming. Then it becomes ad hoc decision-making and it goes against each other. The House of Representatives has, therefore, for years now, after an ICT committee, after an investigation and after setting up a Committee for Digital Affairs. But the government looks away from that. What does the Secretary of State or perhaps the Minister of Economic Affairs think about putting the protection of people and their data first and taking that as a starting point? Then you can still have a data economy, as the minister wishes, but then it happens with explicit consent. For example, we say: we go off with cookies; we just don't want cookies anymore. Now people come on a website and they have to fill something out. A lot of people click that away, but with accepting cookies you give away a lot of information from yourself, much more information than you'd get if you asked. Much more information! And it happens automatically and people aren't aware of it. Shouldn't we just say publicly: we stop cookies; we don't want it anymore? We have seen that these cookies ensure that you are followed even before you have bought anything on a website or actually done something. That's worse in the U.S. than it is here, but it's really... what I've been saying, we don't want a data rating, but we also don't want a peeping dictatorship. That's how it goes. It's just worth a hell of a lot of money. We, the inhabitants of the Netherlands, give way to that very much. Then let's make one good decision today. Well, two. Let's do that. One. We're gonna build that budget so we can get insight and perspective. And two. We're gonna stop those cookies. Would the government be willing to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mrs Leijten was just talking about the debate on data centres that some of us had last week. We also had the same frustration in that. It was mainly about power consumption and spatial planning aspects of data centres. There was actually no one at the table in Box K who also talked about the usefulness and need of data centers, including for our digital future. Mrs Leijten, like me, felt that the Secretary of State would be a good addition to that. Will we call on the cabinet today to take the lead in relation to data centres with the Minister of EZK and the Secretary of State together? It's not like the Minister for Spatial Planning isn't allowed to talk anymore. Of course that is also an aspect, but the lead, the weighting and the future strategy should really be with these two leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	I'm very much in favour of that. I said "the Secretary of State isn't about that," but you should actually see that as a cry of hearts: "Dear Secretary of State, please go over more." And, dear government, give that to the Secretary of State. So this box thinking doesn't mean we have a common vision. Then we can disagree on the vision, but at least there is a vision. At those data centers last week it was very visible: there is no such thing as a prognosis for what we need. We have an excess capacity on the data, on those hyperscales like Zeewolde, according to research. The Chamber didn't get that. Those are all of those things that are sanding. I think that's because it's between all kinds of ministries. As a result, everyone is responsible and no one is responsible. That's not good. We also need that view to make good decisions. So what do we need? What are we gonna do for 10 or 15 years from now? What's that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	It just seemed as if it was especially annoying for our way of working that there are so many rulers. Of course it is, because it is more difficult, but the risk is also that there will be too limited focus in policy making. That is what we need to do in the years to come, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	I have a question for Mrs Leijten. I have heard her outline that vision is lacking and that we talk so often about all kinds of specific problems and cases in the digital debates. I have heard Mrs Leijten say that people's data must be central. Is that the SP vision? Because I did read about it in the main letter. Then I hear Mrs Leijten commenting on cookies. That is a relevant subject, but that is, of course, an example of the problem that Mrs Leijten herself outlined. What is the overarching SP vision on digital issues, which she misses so much in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think it is still under development, but it has certain important principles, namely: we have to rely on a reliable government, even when it comes to digital decision-making. It's about a government that's known, so it doesn't just make a decision without asking for anything. This has to do with, among other things, the Council of State Opinion. We very much need a reaction from the cabinet to that, because then we can discuss it in substance, and we can also see where laws are needed and how we can fulfil our co-legislative role. Two. We can see, of course, that the Internet, just as the Rathenau Institute said, has developed as a utility. That is why we believe that you should not shy away from regulating occasionally, in the interests of the users, of us residents, of the power of the government or of the large business. That's what you see most in data. And data is worth a lot. We have talked about these data on a number of occasions, and I would say that we need as little data as possible and we do not have data-driven decision-making. We have already dealt with several legislative proposals on this subject. That was with Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz. I am very sorry that D66 finally voted in favour, because the profiling that is in it has not stopped after the supplement scandal, but it only goes on. We all know the risks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	The things Mrs Leijten is describing when it comes to the SP vision are also subjects on which I have read the necessary information in the main letter. In the coalition agreement, too, principles such as "government should set a good example" and data minimisation have been identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yeah, but it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	So Mrs Leijten's observation that the vision is lacking is not really justified. But, as she now calls through my contribution: it doesn't happen. Then that's the problem we need to talk about. But then I find the accusation that vision is lacking, not entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	Shall I say something about the coalition agreement? It says: on the one hand we want a data economy because there are so many opportunities, and on the other hand we want data minimising. Then where's the vision, the SP thinks. Isn't that a contradiction? And that is the lack of vision. You see the economic side. There are opportunities and risks, but you have to get on the highway. That's what the government said in the past with these data centres: bring it on, let it come, let it come; that's good for our competitiveness. The people rebelled, because it doesn't prude. Research shows that it's not really necessary. Then we have the supplement scandal and we are all shocked by what can happen to those data and to those profiles. So we write in the coalition agreement that we're getting an algorithm registry that I haven't seen yet, and that there has to be a good authority. That authority has been underfunded for years. And for example, the law on data sharing is simply passed, as is the decentralisation of the Environment Act. That's what D66's for. There are very big risks to this, especially when it comes to the digital side. That is the lack of vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	Very good. Mrs Bouchallichh of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My contribution is partly on behalf of the PvdA. Each time we are shocked by abuses in the area of digitalisation. Last week, for example, a discriminatory fraud score card was still used in four Utrecht municipalities. On the basis of prejudice, welfare recipients are controlled. This led to people being unjustly accused in 158 municipalities for 15 years. When this investigation came out, some municipalities decided to stop doing so, except for one. What can the Secretary of State do to ensure that this municipality also stops discrimination? As early as 2020, officials wanted to get rid of this scorecard, and preferably quietly, otherwise image damage would be imminent. This is really unacceptable. In her answers to questions from Mr Leijten, the Secretary of State places the responsibility mainly on the municipalities, but such examples clearly show that this is not self-evident. On the contrary, more guidance is really needed and more resources are needed. The motion adopted on the human rights test on algorithms is a good starting point. Municipalities should be obliged to introduce a human rights test on all algorithms. What is the situation with regard to the introduction of this motion at municipal level? Fortunately, at local level, we also see good initiatives, such as the ethics committees in Groningen and Enschede, and the algorithm registers of Amsterdam and Rotterdam. How does the Secretary of State intend to support such initiatives? Mr. Chairman. It doesn't just go wrong in municipalities. The General Court recently presented a report on algorithms. Unfortunately, the findings were not surprising, but shocking again, especially with regard to the algorithm used by the police. That's a widely applied algorithm with a lot of impact. This algorithm scores negatively on every criterion of the General Court. What is the Minister of Security and Justice doing to start this investigation? How does it prevent the police from continuing to operate on the basis of these algorithms? This report reaffirms the need for a human rights test, as stated in the aforementioned motion. What about the implementation of this? I read in reply to Mr Leijten's questions that the Secretary of State regards the motion as being dealt with because there are national agreements being made. How binding are these agreements? The motion calls for obligations and not for non-committality in this area. I was not entirely reassured in the answers. What will the Secretary of State do to ensure that the motion as adopted is implemented? What's the status on that algorithm registry? That should have been there a long time ago, but it's not gonna happen. In January last year the Klever c.s. motion for a resolution was adopted. Adopted. Then the Personal Data Authority. That should become the watchdog of algorithms, but the investments in the AP are really far too low for us. As early as 2020, it was pointed out that the AP needs more than twice as many people to carry out its tasks properly. Meanwhile, many more tasks have been added. Money will be added to the budget, but not enough as far as we are concerned. This does not implement the Klaver/Ploumen motion, which, among other things, deals with this issue, because this motion also mentions the AP. Does the government recognise this and will this change in the next budget? Now investing in the AP prevents major errors that cause a lot of suffering and economic damage. Then there is the worrying influence of large tech companies on our society and democracy. Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen told us about this in the House of Representatives. It is up to us to turn her warnings and advice into regulation. Is there any insight into the role social media play in influencing our public debate? Are the last Lower House elections evaluated on this point, for example? Other countries have done so. I would find it very interesting to do the same in the Netherlands. Is the government prepared to do this? Online hatred also affects democracy in a negative way. Women politicians in particular are the victims of this. No less than 10% of all tweets addressed to female politicians contain hatred or aggression. It prevents them from entering politics, and this is detrimental to our democracy. Social platforms must be made responsible for this. What is the status of the Secretary of State or Minister I didn't know exactly who this was with and how do they commit themselves to this at EU level? Political advertisements are also being discussed in the EU at the moment. In any case, GroenLinks wants the Netherlands to use a total ban on political advertisements based on personal data and online tracking. The huge amounts of personal data make it possible to specifically influence people on the basis of their vulnerabilities. For example, this profit model facilitates effective dissemination of fake news and even paid political influence of voters at the time of the elections, with major implications for democracy. We have seen this in other countries too, and I would like to avoid that in the Netherlands. We also want to prevent polarising ads from being cheaper than a nuanced message. Is the Secretary of State or the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? What is the government's commitment to this dossier in negotiations at European level? What can it do at national level? There has just been an interruption about vision, but in this committee we often talk about incidents, because a lot is going wrong. The letter from the leaders also states that they really want to move forward. I hope that we can do this as a Chamber and as a cabinet in the short term. I hope that we can quickly reach the point where we can focus more on the future, what we do want, and that we do not jump from incident to incident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Rajkowski from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The internet and other digital developments increase the quality of our lives and also offer many opportunities. Then it's about access to information worldwide, but it's also about being able to do business with each other across borders. That is not a new idea, because Mr Bolkestein said in a debate in September 1994 that the Netherlands could still benefit from telematics, telecommunications and teleworking. And so it was. The Netherlands is now one of Europe's five digital nodes, and that is a very special position to have. Startups, fintech, gaming industry, but also our primeval Dutch flower auction are here in the Netherlands, not only because of our good digital infrastructure, but also because of our digital talent. But, unfortunately, digitalisation also entails risks. Malicious states trying to disrupt our society, try to steal knowledge, try to influence our public debate, all for their own gain, but at the expense of our democracy. As in the offline world, the VVD considers it important that people in the online world can count on a strong government that can protect its inhabitants, businesses, but also themselves. This concerns fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression, privacy and equal treatment, which should also apply in the digital domain. In the coming years, you can expect me to tackle these risks. I want to talk to you today about security, economics and democracy. Mr President, safety. Cyber harness is increasingly successful in stealing knowledge, holding things digitally hostage and throwing online highly sensitive data from Dutch people, leading to potential digital fraud. We need to be prepared for this. One of the five SMEs has already become victims of cybercriminals. This only continues to increase; one in five. That is why the House of Representatives called with the Hermans motion for a resolution to come forward with concrete proposals to protect these entrepreneurs. When can we expect these proposals? Also, the VVD came up with a four-point plan earlier when it comes to digital crisis situations and potential attacks. We look forward to the cabinet's plans for this. We are also pleased that, at the request of the VVD, the Secretary of State is going to investigate how equipment from organisations from countries with a cyber program against the Netherlands can be excluded from procurement. But then, unfortunately, we are not there yet, because in the answers to questions my party has asked about concerns about Chinese cameras, which, for example, film the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there was still little clarity on this issue. My group is therefore concerned about whether this issue is sufficiently high on the agenda. That is why I will table a motion on this point in my second term. It's about cameras and the government. Mr. Chairman. Safety also means being safe at home, the long-cherished desire of the VVD to ensure at the KVK that addresses of sole proprietorships are blocked. Compliments of the letter we received from the Minister. I think there's someone else in V-K who's been fighting for that for years. Do all entrepreneurs get a letter with their options, what they can do with shielding? Mr. Chairman. Then I want to go to digital sovereignty. To put it bluntly, this means that, as the Netherlands and Europe, we need to be able to do better and become less dependent on big tech or non-free countries. So compliments for the National Growth Fund, but we also think the Deep Tech Fund is a very nice initiative. If we want to become less independent, we also need to look at the sea cables. That may sound like something very technical and boring, but 99% of our communication depends on these Internet cables. We've got two, but they're both out of use, and there's not gonna be any new ones. So the VVD would like the cabinet to talk to parties to see how we can build new cables, remove obstacles, precisely to ensure that we retain that digital sovereignty. We know there might be a cable being built from Canada to part of Asia. Can't it go through Europe? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last topic, but not the least. That is our democratic rule of law. We can no longer close our eyes to Russian troll army who cause unrest on social media in the hearts and minds of our Dutch. Tech research also shows that online platforms benefit from this and also feed this information war. Some researchers even argue that half of the Twitter accounts are fake and that they are used to attack countries online by spreading hatred and division. It is therefore time for social media to take their responsibility and remove illegal content and disinformation from their platforms. Previously, the cabinet has indicated its desire to keep citizens curious and critical. How? What are the proposals? We haven't seen anything yet. Mr. Chairman. The last point: the VVD wants the Netherlands to have information about the information war that is being waged against our society. This information is known in Europe and is also shared with NATO, but that information is not yet in the Netherlands. Does this cabinet want to work to get this threat information to the Netherlands as well? That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	It is always a bit sad to hear the VVD argue in favour of tackling disinformation, because Mrs Rajkowski knows, as I do, that in the EU's hands this tends to go to total censorship. I look forward to hearing Mrs Rajkowski's ideas on how to deal with disinformation. Big tech isn't doing well enough with his policy. It does not seem to me that she is now in favour of letting the EU decide what it is and what it is not allowed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u19	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u20	I've seen that. How?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u21	There are all kinds of different definitions of disinformation floating around. Our definition is that you must be able to trace back that another country, which is not happy with the Netherlands, for example Russia, is systematically trying to cause unrest with messages, campaigns, money and factual inaccuracies. If we can make that clear, I say take that shit away, it is not desirable here. But if there is any doubt, the VVD also says: do not cross. Because then there is a danger of freedom of speech. So it's not an individual who calls out on a social media platform about how the corona virus doesn't exist or whatever. That's not the point. It's about those systematic campaigns. And if we cannot establish it, then we must stay off it, because freedom of expression is a great asset and we must preserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u22	That was my question: how are we going to determine that? In an earlier debate in which we talked about disinformation and what that is exactly, I was told by my colleague from D66 that this is, for example, the questioning of climate change. At that time we also found that PVV's, a lot of VVD'ers and at least the members of the Forum for Democracy can pack and close their Twitter account immediately. How do we find out what facts are? Who's gonna decide that? So that was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u23	So I'm not talking about an individual screaming. It's not about climate or what other things people want or don't want to deny. That's not the point. Robert van der Noordaa, I would say: google the best man for years. His reports are often public. It is simply traceable and it can be seen that, for example, from certain IP addresses in Russia, from premises where there are no individuals and where you know which public authority is behind them, anonymous accounts are systematically created and campaigns and money are behind them. Then you can really see a kind of structure and organization from a country, which aims to cause chaos and unrest in countries like the Netherlands. If we can establish that in that way, then it is clear. If it's all unclear or vague, or if it's an opinion we're not happy with, then it all has to be possible. Because we can't have freedom of speech. But we must not be naive about what is happening here every day. Social media play a very important role in causing hatred and insecurity. People get a kind of negative gut feeling that can trigger violence. That is what we see on the street, and we really should not close our eyes to that. Social media do not take their responsibilities in this, while making money. This is where we all have to draw a line. The VVD also finds it exciting to tackle disinformation, precisely because of that freedom of expression. But I am really convinced that we can draw an objective line with all political parties. That's what I'm going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u24	I wonder what the VVD thinks of the developments surrounding the digital identity. And if she's for that, why is she for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u25	We had a committee debate a few weeks ago and also a two-minute debate in which Mr Ceder tabled a motion. I think it's been taken in Chamberwide. I don't know what Forum voted, probably for it. We are going to have the debate on this after the summer. The VVD and other parties said in that committee debate: wait a minute, the development of digital identity and a digital bsn number, which may be issued from Europe, is going too fast. We're not really in favour of that, but we're always willing to look at a proposal. There we must have drawn a stripe in the sand with each other. I do not think you were present at that debate, but I have seen what you think in social terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u26	So far, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u27	Well, there wasn't much answer. I didn't just mean the development of such a social service number and that sort of thing, but really that application. Last year, the government sent a letter stating what should be included in such an application: bank data, tax data, health data. There was a whole list in that letter. I was just wondering what the VVD thinks about the development of that application, so not so much about centralizing citizen service numbers, but about a digital application for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u28	That's about the wallet, if I understand you correctly. I don't think it's a big deal if something like that comes up. Well, then I think two things are important. One thing I think is most important by far, and that's that he won't be required. But I think it is very good that people, when they want to do business across the border, are no longer obliged to identify themselves with a copy of their passport in an office somewhere in Germany at the front desk. If people would like to do that via the digital route: please. But the VVD says in all digital developments: the desk function must remain open and digitalisation, digital solutions and digital communication must not become mandatory. That's what you've been looking for, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u29	A fine speech by Mrs Rajkowski. I know her very well in terms of content on this subject. In fact, in recent years, we have seen that the VVD has been one of the pioneers of, for example, the Digital Affairs Committee. They said, if we don't have an overview, we have no insight, and if we don't have insight, we don't have a view. This is about the digital infrastructure for business, for trade, but certainly also for contact with your government, the privacy, all the elements you have mentioned. In 2018, a motion was adopted by your predecessor, Mr Wörsdörfer, asking the government to create a digital budget, so that we can gain more insight and possibly more grip on it. But there isn't. It's not in the cabinet plans either. We have a secretary of state who says, "I'm not really prepared to do that." What is the position of the VVD on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u30	We're still behind that motion. We have often discussed this in the Committee on Digital Affairs. Mrs Leijten and Mrs Van Ginneken of D66 took that issue to the head. I also assumed that in the debate some proposals might come from you this way. We can also push on to dust off that old 2018 motion and say: execute her. I'd say put a bow around it and take her out. We're gonna need this. There's a lot of money being invested.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u32	That was a hint, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u33	Which you pick up very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u34	I have a follow-up question. We're sitting here with three rulers. For all three of us, I have a lot of appreciation, a lot of respect. They work hard. But there are still three of us meeting all day, while there are other tasks to do with the government. How does the VVD feel about the fact that it's still so fragmented in the government? Isn't that a shame? Isn't that a missed opportunity? Shouldn't we put the Secretary of State more in the lead on various issues that we all consider important for the bottom that we need to include good decision-making for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u35	We have also talked a lot about this in the campaign leading up to the Lower House elections: should there be a Minister for Digital Affairs? As far as the VVD is concerned, we don't have to. It is not a matter of principle for us. We're afraid you're gonna end up in some kind of cookery. For us, the most important thing is that behind the scenes it doesn't matter which ministry you work at, but that there is good cooperation there to pick up the digital agenda. In my opinion, different themes play a role in this. When it comes to security, we look at the department that deals with it. When it comes to government, privacy, security and the associated fundamental rights, we look at the Secretary of State. I think we can peel it off like this. The most important thing, however, is that the civil servants and the behind-the-scenes experts work very well together. I think it's very nice to see that there are three very strong ladies in V-K, all about tech and digitization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u36	It recently became known that the IND origin was registered to be used in a risk model. It recently became known that many municipalities still use controversial illegal fraud models. According to the letter of the law, these models are not illegal, but they are controversial. It simply assigned points based on characteristics that can be indirectly traced back to origin. When proposals are put forward in this Chamber for a categorical ban on the use of nationality, ethnicity and origin in risk models, there are always two parties in the coalition. That's the VVD and the CDA. I was wondering if the VVD is finally ready to categorically ban the use of origin and ethnicity in risk models. If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u37	I would say that nationality, origin or anything that can be discriminated against is not important to use in risk models. I'd rather not have this either. But I can also imagine that there might be reasons to look at it. Then it's not about behavior or fraud. But if you know that you can easily cross the border from a particular country and that many types of crime, such as trafficking in human beings, come from there, then I would like it not to be ignored either. So not categorically forbid, but a no-unless policy with a very good explanation seems important to me. However, I think your question is much more about fraud, bonuses, benefits, etc. I think we're on the same side there. However, I would not like to ban it categorically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u38	In my view, that is a rather different line from the one we have seen in voting behaviour here in the Chamber. As I just said, when motions were tabled in the Chamber, it was often the VVD and the CDA who were obstructing just to take big steps in this. The line of defence used by Mrs Rajkowski is actually: yes, in some cases, and if it is taken into account. I find that very difficult, because that is also the defence line of the government. "Yes, it must not be decisive." You can't be a little racist, can you? So that to some extent weighs ethnicity in risk classification, isn't it racist? A little racist doesn't make sense all of a sudden, does it? It's no better than being very racist, is it? I would also like us to find out once and for all that that line of defence does not touch either side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr Van Baarle uses words like "defense line," but I have nothing to defend. This is just the point of view. This is how we look at it. For example, if trafficking in human beings would mainly take place from Germany to the Netherlands, then it is important that someone working at customs should perhaps do an extra check when women of certain ages from Germany cross the border? That's not about women or putting people away, is it? I only agree with you that discriminatory fraud algorithms, for example on the basis of origin, should not thrive within the government. I think we have just mentioned one example from the past. If you were a 60-plus man from Suriname, you'd be pinged up somewhere. That's bullshit. That's racist. The VVD doesn't want that either, but categorically rejecting it doesn't seem like a good idea. We are now, of course, talking a little bit about all kinds of different examples. If you have a concrete example of which you say 'this is not good', 'this was the VVD against' or 'I have a very good motion or a very good proposal', we are happy to look at it. This debate is still a few hours away. However, I believe that we have been on your side enough times when it comes to banning discriminatory algorithms in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u40	You have been on Mr Van Baarle's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr President, I am also a little on your side. Yes, through the chairman. I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u42	I am a little surprised at what Mrs Rajkowski just said about the division of labour in this cabinet on digital matters. In fact, it is not at all so different from the one in the previous cabinet. At that time, the State Secretary of BZK also had digitisation in his task package. The only difference is that this Secretary of State now has it in its title and that it may be called "Minister for Digitalization" in Europe. I know that the VVD has been one of the initiators of the Temporary Committee on Digital Future. I was allowed to be a part of that, too. We have put down a solid report there, in which we have argued why one coordinating ruler is needed. That doesn't necessarily have to be a minister. It may be a secretary of state, but there's got to be one person who oversees everything. There wasn't one in Rutte IV. Does this remove Mrs Rajkowski from the conclusions of the Temporary Committee on the Digital Future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u43	No. As I see it, we have always coordinated directors on the various subjects. When it comes to security and digitisation, it's Justice. If it is about the digital economy, then it is EZK, et cetera. I think there's this coordination. I would also like to look at the steps we have already taken, namely that we are having a plenary debate here with the Committee on Digital Affairs. That's partly because of the research you've done among others. You've been on the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u44	"That Mrs. Van Weerdenburg has done among others."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u45	At which Mrs Van Weerdenburg has been on the committee, among others. We are now sitting here with three directors, which automatically leads to overlaps between the different ministries. Again, there does not need to be a minister for digital matters for us. That is not a point of principle either. I'd like to stop the breeding. I think that's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u46	The point is that there is one person who combines all these interests and all these perspectives and who oversees them. You were also in the debate last week about the data centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u47	"Mrs. Rajkowski was there last week."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mrs Rajkowski was there last week. It was about data centers back then. She concluded, like me, that very little attention was paid to the usefulness and necessity of data centres, their positive aspects and perhaps also the need in our future. Mrs Rajkowski indicated that herself. That's what I meant with one person who combines everything, oversees everything and puts it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u49	In my view, last week, in the debate on data centres, we concluded that a number of investigations have indeed not taken place in recent years. This applies, for example, to digital infrastructure, where data centres are part of it. That is what we asked for. The VVD has come up with a review framework. I think it's all been promised. Frankly, I am less negative about the debate than my colleague from the PVV. I just heard a very clear story from our minister of EZK about the digital economy and how the digital infrastructure is part of it. We'll get some letters after the summer. I look forward to that. I expect that will include our answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u50	Let's talk about disinformation. Mrs Rajkowski just said that the VVD was very excited to tackle disinformation. In the corona time, the VVD didn't find that so exciting at all. All kinds of people were thrown off all kinds of platforms, including myself. These were discussions about mouth caps, about the lockdown, about curfew, about ivermectin and about side effects during vaccination. Then the VVD was very hard at that. It turned out that it was all a bit more nuanced after all. How's the VVD looking at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u51	The VVD is of course not the one that Mr Van Haga threw off some platform. I would like to make that clear in this debate. I believe you've been banned from LinkedIn. Mr Van Haga has gone to court. You've also been right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u52	"Mr. Van Haga..."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr Van Haga then went to court and was also right. In my view, this shows that our system is working: where something is damaging freedom of speech, people are being whistled back. It might still be a little scanned. Platforms also find it exciting. They're looking at politics a little bit. I would say: let us take some steps forward and clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'm very happy that the judge said I was right. That gave me some confidence in the judiciary. However, I was concerned that the VVD was very hard on disinformation. Prime Minister Rutte has said many times: you cannot say all that, because we must now all run in the same direction. Afterwards it turned out that everything was different and that the scientists didn't all agree on it either. So I hope the VVD stays on my side. That is why my final question: shouldn't the border also be determined by criminal law for the VVD? In addition, you have to be able to say anything, as long as you're not criminally trespassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u55	Yes, that is true when it comes to freedom of speech. I just tried to explain that disinformation for us is really something other than an individual, a scientist or a resident saying the following things. I'm kind of excited about these side effects. Has the vaccine been properly tested? Do we even have a climate crisis? Do we even have a nitrogen crisis? People should be able to say that. This is a matter of individual freedom of expression. We are talking about structured campaigns, from certain countries that are trying to cause unrest here. That's really something else. These countries have nothing to do with how we set up our democratic rule of law. That's where we draw the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u56	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u57	I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u58	We're gonna listen to the next speaker. That's Mr Van Haga from the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr. Chairman. BVNL is deeply concerned about the role of the government and the influence of bigtech companies in the digital world. We are at a turning point in history and we must be very careful. Because before we figure it out, we've lost our freedom and we live in a digital control state. Mr. Chairman. We see that the EU is trying to attract the digital control force, which will make it possible to monitor and control 450 million EU citizens. The European Commission presents far-reaching proposals such as the Digital Services Act, the Digital Markets Act and the Data Governance Act. Of course, we must not forget the European digital identity. All this gives the EU, but also our own government, far too much power over personal data and the digital market. My question is therefore to what extent these far-reaching powers increase the risk of misuse of our data by governments. And what kind of checks are there built-in? In a number of countries the control state is already daily reality and the government really knows everything about you. In the Netherlands, this scenario is certainly not unthinkable. Recently, the government checked our medical status through a QR code that could deny citizens access to public life. Terrible. Two weeks ago, there was a report that intelligence services kept data from civilians for far too long. Why aren't those data deleted? Does the Secretary of State share our fear of this control state? Mr. Chairman. Of course, these new rules also offer the opportunity to curb bigtech companies. But de facto, the shift in power in the digital landscape is that the government is going to decide what should and should not be said on these platforms. As far as BVNL is concerned, we need to lay down these rules correctly. Then everything can be said as long as there is no criminal offence and there is no big-tech censorship and no ministry of truth. I'd like a reaction to that. I would also like to know what the cabinet thinks about politicians being thrown off these platforms and what we can do about it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the online privacy. The EU has come up with a plan to detect child abuse, which will allow online platforms to actively search for material in online private messages from citizens. We also read reports that the drag law, which was voted against by a majority of the Dutch, is still a reality. I'd like a reflection of the Minister on the rumors surrounding this tow law. How is the cabinet going to prevent citizens from being unduly followed by businesses and governments and turn these projects into a citizen's digital state control? Let us avoid a control state at all times, in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u60	The President of the European Commission, Mrs Von der Leyen, gave a speech not so long ago on the fact that there are a lot of data collected from citizens and businesses, both by companies and by governments. Those data are actually very, very unexploited. She said, almost with dollar signs in her eyes, that we should use them and make money and that there is a wealth of opportunities there. How does Mr Van Haga feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u61	That's a good point. I think Mrs. Von der Leyen is a terrifying lady. These things are very worrying. Those data are not from the EU. We need to make sure that they are very well protected. Technically, so can all of them. But the idea that the EU is about our data and that we are going to make some extra use of it... Look, if you're in the corner of influence, you can do a lot with that data. That is also a very lucrative activity. We see that the Googles and Facebookes make an incredible amount of money with that. If that is what Mrs von der Leyen means, that is indeed very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u62	I also think that this is a very worrying development. I'm incredibly afraid of where this is going. But how does Mr Van Haga explain that the rest just doesn't seem to see this? How can it be that it's all about skill? You don't have to scan your passport anymore and this and that while this is about rigging up a total control system? How does he explain that this doesn't seem to get through?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u63	This is, of course, the key question. I don't know. Technological progress certainly has my deepest sympathy. I've been working on it my whole life. It is very good that you can easily pass through the gates of Schiphol because you are a member of Privium, with an iris scan. I'm all for that. That's fantastic. However, there is a great risk that is now being abused by some sort of collectivist movement that is taking place within our country, but also seems to be taking shape at European level. If that's taken advantage of, it's horrible. We are now seeing all kinds of symptoms of that abuse. I totally agree with you; it's very strange. I hope that more and more people in our Parliament will be aware of and mitigate these risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u64	So far. Thank you. Then there is Mr Van Baarle of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Digitisation is a blessing, but digitisation can also be a terrible curse. It's a blessing if it makes our lives easier, but a curse if it increases inequality between people, if it creates an impersonal government that only a computer can talk to. It's a curse when algorithms become monsters that discriminate against people. Mr. Chairman. We must cherish the blessings of digitalisation, but we must always avoid digitalisation becoming a curse. This requires guarantees, safeguards in the area of preventing discrimination. After all, we all know what can happen if you let algorithms and digital systems run their course. Then you can be considered a fraud by the government based on your origins. Then you are taken out as an older person with a migration background and checked extra. Gifts to mosques are then classified as suspicious transactions. And then some creepy fraud score cards are used. Do you live in a trailer? Extra points, extra risk. That's disgusting. Thousands of people have fallen victim to this. This must never happen again. We therefore always ask the government in this kind of debate: do not categorically ban the use of origin, nationality and ethnicity in the risk models. Is the government finally prepared to do so? The Secretary of State has promised DENK that she will see how she can make safeguards against discrimination and algorithms binding. My question to the Secretary of State is: does she know how she is going to do this? When do we see the result of this as a Chamber? As far as DENK is concerned, there will simply be a law as soon as possible in which we will lay down these guarantees. At this point, I am considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. How far is the Secretary of State with the mandatory human rights test on algorithms following an approved motion from this Chamber? There are also several European initiatives on the regulation of algorithms. Think of the AI Act, for example, but also the Digital Services Act. If I take a first look at these initiatives, I find the safeguards it contains against discrimination and human rights to offer little concrete and insufficient security. Amnesty International also says this. Does the Secretary of State share this observation? How can it still use influence at European level to further strengthen the requirements against discrimination in these European regulations? On this point, too, we are considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. We're going through the government right now on discriminatory algorithms. Like Mrs Leijten, DENK thinks that you should stop using algorithms when you don't know whether or not algorithms discriminate. I would like a response from the Secretary of State why she is always unwilling to do so. Mr. Chairman. I will also continue to ask this Secretary of State why she is not prepared to perform an external test on that screening. Because the same government that has discriminated with algorithms is now going to check whether or not those algorithms discriminate. The butcher approves his own flesh. Why does the Secretary of State not want an external review? Mr. Chairman. During the technical briefing, I noticed the following. The step is missing to investigate how a possible discriminatory algorithm has been created, who is responsible for it, and to hold the people responsible for it. Why is that the case? Discrimination must never go unpunished in the government, must it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u66	I've been thinking a long time about that external test, because you've been asking for it several times. And then I always think, "Who's gonna do that?" We ask the government so much. The government then investigates itself and therefore designates an external tester. Sometimes there is something that we say is not independent enough. Who would ask DENK to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u67	I think the Rathenau Institute might be an intelligent suggestion for that. Perhaps we can ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Perhaps we could ask a committee of scientists that we set up. It seems so pure to me to at least not ask for a government-related service, because now we have a big "the butcher approves his own meat" feeling. Mr. Chairman. It is also important to monitor that an algorithm and its application never mean that radical decisions are taken about Dutch people without human intervention. It must never be the case that a numb computer decides whether someone is a fraud, for example. Is it already general policy for the government to never make algorithmic decisions without human intervention that can have legal effects or financial consequences for people? If that is not a generally binding policy for the government, is the government prepared to introduce it? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the algorithm register. This too must be implemented by the government on the basis of an approved motion from the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State finally indicate exactly how she intends to design this algorithm register? Is this algorithm register available to the public in all cases in the State Secretary's design? Mr. Chairman. Digitisation is therefore a blessing if it makes our lives easier, but becomes a curse if it excludes, stigmats and discriminates against people. We have to do everything we can to stop that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Weerdenburg from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman. This debate had a very long run. Digital Affairs' main debate has been a real planning nightmare. Therefore, congratulations to the Registry in plenary and to the President of the Chamber, who fought like a lion to save us from a fourth delay. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet letter containing the broad lines of the policy for digitalisation consists mainly of generalities. It is actually a collection of good intentions: deploying high-quality digital infrastructure, secure and reliable digital services, and technological innovation and digital skills. That's what everyone wants, but how and when? In fact, there are no concrete measures or targets that can be met, because all this comes only in the drafting of the so-called work agenda, and we do not yet have them. For example, we are still waiting for the letter of state-wide cloud policy, the new cybersecurity strategy and the roadmaps per theme of the I-strategy Empire. That would all come before the summer recess, we were promised, but that's already in seven days. Can the rulers today indicate when we will receive it and what about it? Then we can at least debate it this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. This committee has a lot of work to do over the next few years and so do these directors. The PVV will focus on getting the basic ICT set up by the government and on digital inclusiveness. It is a good thing that citizens and businesses are given more opportunities to do digital business with the government and that better safeguards are provided for this. Nor are we necessarily opposed to an online identity, as long as it is never required. Digital business must always be on a voluntary basis and there must always be a decent, simple, offline alternative for those who cannot walk the digital road, such as the elderly, the digibetes or the visually impaired, or for those who, for whatever reason, do not want to take the digital road. The government is there for the citizen and not the other way around. Furthermore, as always, we will take a very critical look at the regulations that are being poured out on us from the EU. On a digital level, that's a huge amount. We expect these leaders to be proactive and, above all, assertive at the negotiating tables in Brussels, and to defend the interests of our Dutch citizens and companies with great respect. Dare to step on the brake there if you have to. Can they promise that? Developments that the PVV is deeply concerned about are, for example, the European Commission's intention to finance the data of citizens and businesses, which are collected on a large scale, by exploiting the large-scale use of this data collected. We are also regularly awakened by the fierce crusade that Brussels has been conducting for years against freedom of expression, supposedly in order to protect citizens from disinformation. The best way to protect citizens from the influence of disinformation is not to withhold information by filtering it. That is the way to make them even less resilient. Teach users, citizens and young people how to think, not what they should think. My group also sees the messing with encryption. The right to privacy and the right to digital anonymity are therefore seriously under pressure. In order to facilitate the detection of child pornography, the European Commission intends to have all encrypted communications scanned for unauthorized content. The way in which providers should do that leaves the Commission in the middle, but it obviously refers to algorithms. That's very risky, because they're not so good yet. We've seen in the supplemental affair where that could lead. This proposal is in fact the end of the digital letter secret. But if you question that, you're gonna get blamed for trying to hinder the detection of child pornography. That's moral blackmail. Can the Minister give us the current state of play on this discussion? Mr. Chairman. The Committee for Digital Affairs has been set up to give the Lower House a greater grip on digitization issues. They were dealt with fragmentedly in all kinds of specialist committees. There was no discussion of the overarching importance, i.e. the cross-committee issues. We've been working for over a year now and getting that grip doesn't seem so easy. We've got a lot to do. I call on colleagues here today in the Chamber to give more priority to digitisation and to attend more often the debates of the Digital Affairs Commission. Because what we are doing now is vital to the digital future of our children. Finally, Mr President. I say to the rulers: so far, you have not gone much further than drawing up reports, developing roadmaps and setting up consultative bodies or evaluation committees. When are you going to set concrete goals and actually take action? When are you gonna cut back on your meetings and do more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u70	Of course, for the most part I agree with Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I think it's a very good story. But I heard something in between that I have a question about, namely that the PVV does support the development of an online identity, as long as it is not mandatory and voluntary. Does she agree with me that we saw in the Corona era that an app that was technically not legally required was de facto made compulsory? Because you were just excluded from socio-economic life if you didn't use it. Is she not afraid that this will happen again if this infrastructure is rigged up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u71	Thank you for that question. The PVV is absolutely against coercion, but also against urge. That is why I have said that analog, offline, must always remain a decent, accessible and accessible alternative and that this should not be made extra difficult. Absolutely, I agree with Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u72	Shouldn't we be categorically opposed to these kinds of developments? This is just gonna happen, isn't it? Eventually, this is going to become mandatory in some way, left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u73	I don't think so. I remember an earlier discussion in this Chamber about doing digital business with the government. A lot of people have been helped with it. They can do business more easily on the digital road. So I don't want them to remember that. I think it's more my job and ours to make sure no one gets out of the boat. We will look very closely at that. But categorically we do not want to say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u74	Very good. Mr Bontenbal of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr. Chairman. Digital technologies will make an important contribution to solving the major societal issues of the coming decades. This is feeding 10 billion mouths, combating climate change, providing quality care in an ageing society, precision agriculture, sustainable energy supply, accessible care. Digitisation is indispensable here. But we also see the shadow side of digital technologies. American social psychologist Jonathan Haidt wrote a depressing article a few weeks ago about the role of social media in society. A healthy democracy is based on three main pillars, he writes: social capital in society, strong institutions and a shared story. Social media have undermined all three, is his gloomy analysis. Mr. Chairman. We can look at digital technologies in three ways. Some of these views have just been shared in the Chamber. The first is an optimistic, instrumentalist view. Technology is then an instrument by which we as people can achieve our goals. We are free to use these technologies and we use them if they are useful to us. The second vision is a pessimistic, deterministic vision. Technology is not an instrument, but an autonomous force that can control us. We are no longer in control of this, society has become a technical system and we are the victims of it. But there is also a third perspective, one in which we ask not so much whether a technology is right or wrong, but above all how we relate to technology. The question then is this: does technology contribute to man as a responsible, free and creative being or does it undermine human dignity? What are the consequences of technologies for the good living together of people? Mr. Chairman. The CDA looks at digital technologies in this way and the following principles are guiding us. First of all, that every person counts. Digitisation must not lead to new divisions in society. Secondly, digital technologies must not suppress ordinary human practices. If technology undermines human dignity, takes the place of ordinary human contact, dissipates good living together and undermines our democracy, then we must stop. Mr. Chairman. From this point of view, my group would like to ask the following questions about the cabinet's outline letter. I shall begin with the most concrete point. Many parents struggle with the question of how much screen time they should give their children, what apps and games they may or may not allow and at what age. Many parents then run into children being manipulated in these games to do all kinds of micro transactions. Especially the so-called loot boxes are a thorn in our eye. Loot boxes are a kind of treasure chests that game developers have added to games. Kids are being manipulated to buy these loot boxes, but it's unclear what's inside. So it's a form of gambling and it's also addictive. It saddles families with unexpected, high bills. Last month, together with 20 other consumer organisations from 18 European countries, including the Dutch Consumers' Association, the Norwegian consumer association called for this. In the Netherlands, the Gaming Authority already imposed a penalty charge on the producer of the FIFA game in 2019 for these slot boxes. Unfortunately, however, this statement did not stand up at the Council of State. In Belgium, loot boxes in video games are now banned. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group wants you to put an end to these loot boxes. By "you" I don't mean the chairman, but we want the cabinet to put an end to these loot boxes. Children and families should be protected from this. Period. I will table a motion on this. My second question is whether we are currently doing enough to protect vulnerable children on social media. An example. A few weeks ago, TikTok shared a naked video of an underage girl being bullied. Only after the video had been watched thousands of times and several reports had been made, TikTok deleted the video. The CDA Group hates that, because this girl has been damaged her entire life. Why do we allow this as a society? How can we intervene in this? That's what I'm asking this cabinet. Then there's my third question. It says whether we are doing enough in terms of technological citizenship. Good citizenship means that we have not only rights as citizens, but also obligations. The focus in the current debate is on civil rights, such as privacy and accessibility. But should we not also pay much more attention to the duties that we also have as citizens? Europe's strategic autonomy is once again high on the political agenda as a result of the war in Ukraine. Also on the topic of digitalisation, strategic autonomy should be the starting point. For example, it is not acceptable for Chinese companies to provide ICT for crucial energy infrastructure in the Netherlands. That is why we ask the Minister of EZK how she will place Europe's strategic autonomy in its digitalisation agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u77	I would like to ask the CDA Group how it looks at the data debate. The government says on the one hand that there are opportunities. The President of the European Commission says that all these personal data must be made available. On the other hand, we know that we should actually do data minimising, because we just give away a lot of ourselves. How does the CDA group stand in this balance of economy, earning and privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u78	I think this question is about multiple disks. It's about using data, making it commercial. Then the question is: by whom then, by the government or by the companies? Then there is a third question: at what level? Is that at the level of Member States or at the level of the European Union? As far as the latter is concerned, I would be very reluctant. I always wish the mandate was just here. I believe that we should indeed be very reluctant to make data commercial, in any case by the government. If the government is working on data, which I do not think is entirely undesirable, then it must always be transparent and traceable. It must also be somehow verifiable what we do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u79	Okay. We got a manifesto from the Privacy Coalition last week, I think. They actually ask us a number of questions to just protect people's civil rights by getting more grip and more insight into that data. So they say you can have them erased and not resold. It's a lot of different things. They also say that there must be proper supervision. We know that supervision at the Dutch Data Protection Authority is minimal and that there are huge data leaks. How would the CDA Group want to strengthen monitoring and prevention if we do not ask for fewer data?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u80	I think it is very important, as has just been suggested, for external bodies to monitor this. And not just monitoring, it's about making things transparent and traceable to third parties. What happens to data shouldn't be a black box.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u81	I actually have the same question to Mr Bontenbal that I just asked the VVD. If the President wishes to allow me, I would like to quote from a letter to clarify what my question really is. My question is: are you in favour of developing a digital identity? And why?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u82	Why is Mr. Bontenbal...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mr Bontenbal indeed. And then specifically as the minister explains, namely: "The concept of digital identity is expressed in many ways, so I start with a clear explanation of what I understand. Digital identity means a set of data representing an entity (person or organisation) in the digital domain. Examples include: name, date of birth, address; static identifying data, identifiers (e.g. bsn, account number, CVK number or telephone number); biometrics (e.g. face or fingerprint); certificates (e.g. diplomas or driving licences) and dynamic attributes such as digital transactions (e.g. bank statement)." That's pretty comprehensive. Is Mr. Bontenball for that? And if so, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u84	I think we should be cautious about that. Then comes the question that the SP has just asked: at what level do you want these things to be arranged? I think that we should always look first at the Member States to organise this. But of course there are also opportunities, as the VVD just indicated. If there is a certain degree of voluntaryity, you can defend that people have to be able to do so on their own initiative. But I myself would be very reluctant to make mandatory, especially at European level. But in my view, this deserves a very separate debate. In fact, I would think it would be a shame if we were to do this whole debate through interruptions. We know this is all coming. Let's really address this right, with all the pieces. We all have just too little speaking time, I think, to really get on with this. But it's a super-relevant debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u85	That debate has, unfortunately, been over. Mr Bontenbal was not there. But that's not my question. I hear Mr Bontenbal talking about technological citizenship, not only rights but also duties. What's the CDA thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u86	Look, there's a distinction between what you can and can't legally, but there's also something like morality, for example. You also want to promote citizenship in other behavior, so that people are careful with democracy, normally interacting with each other and not bullying each other in the schoolyard. I think you should certainly make children resistant to what we do in a digital way. It is, of course, quite crazy that things that we find unacceptable in normal social traffic should be allowed online. I believe that, especially since this is a new technology, children, families, we can help parents to do that citizenship right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u87	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u88	Thank you. Imagine if at the push of a button you can be denied access to social media accounts because you have distributed fake news, because your license is no longer valid because you are driving a car that is too polluting, because you will not be able to book a plane ticket because you would have released too much CO or because you are denied access to the OV because you have not been vaccinated. It may sound unrealistic, but it will all be possible soon, because the European Commission announced its official plans for a European digital identity in June 2021. This European digital ID is an application in which all your personal data are stored centrally. It's more than a kind of online passport, which is suggested. The EU will have at least your bank and payment details, your driver's license, your diplomas, your tax records, your tax returns, your social media accounts, and your eye colour, fingerprint and facial form, as can be seen in the Secretary of State's letter. On the basis of all this data, governments and companies will be able or not to provide access to their products and services. That's supposedly all voluntary now, but we all know how it went with the corona-QR app: if you didn't have it, then you simply couldn't do anything anymore. The test phase starts this year and the Dutch government writes in the coalition agreement that it wants to take the lead in the development of this digital ID. But why is this app needed? For what problem is this a solution and who the hell is waiting for this? Even before the EU officially started the project, our own government sent a vision letter on digital identity on 11 February 2021. In the letter, the government argues that a digital identity is needed, but the rationale is flimsy. In the letter, the Secretary of State refers to two reports, a World Economic Forum report and a McKinsey report. The World Economic Forum argues that a digital identity is necessary for a number of reasons. The first reason is the usury growth of various online identities. That sounds very fancy, but the bottom line is that people have a lot of different logins and no longer know which one they need on which platform. That's not really a problem. The second reason is that there is no control over what agencies do with our data. That may be a problem, but a digital ID might only make that worse. And then the third reason. That is a very interesting point, namely that 70% of people would leave their shopping carts on web shops without completing their purchase. What's this about? Are we going to set up a complete control system because a number of large multinationals want to sell more stuff? I'm afraid so. The other report, McKinsey's, doesn't make any sense. The government says that the Netherlands misses economic opportunities without a digital identity, so it refers to McKinsey's research. In doing so, they carried out research into developing countries, namely Nigeria, India, Ethiopia and the slums of Brazil. There, as much economic profit could be achieved if people were given access to online banking. That has nothing to do with the Netherlands, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u89	I hear that Mr Jansen has a lot of concerns about technology, particularly within the framework of the European ID. We have a major debate today and you may raise these concerns, but I do wonder. We have, of course, talked about this before as a Chamber and as a committee. In fact, before there was a European Council in which this was discussed, which was on 31 May, I thought that we in the Chamber had just discussed the concerns, we also adopted a motion for a resolution on this and we were able to have the debate with the Secretary of State, so that it could also go to Europe with that information. But Forum wasn't there. I still find it complicated that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u90	That's Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yes, I find it complicated that Mr Jansen, I say through the President, at the time when it is being discussed, when you can steer, is absent, but that he does raise these concerns today, after the debate and after the European Council has been there. I wonder if Mr Jansen can reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u92	I also had another debate at the time, so I could not be present at the time. You have that with small groups, but I would like to go into that. It is not the case that at that time something was decided that could no longer be changed. First of all, nothing has been decided there, because this plan has been going on for a very long time. The European Commission has already mentioned this in 2018 and the European Central Bank has already mentioned this in 2013. It is not the case that in the committee debate of two weeks ago it was decided that we are going to do this and that it will continue because Forum was not there. Moreover, your motion against a European central civil service number was a very good motion, which I therefore very much welcome, but this whole plan must be dismissed. It is not just about a European civil service number; it is about putting together a very large application for 550 million people, who will soon be able to control our entire lives. I didn't see a motion on that. I have not seen the whole Chamber express its opinion on this. I hope with this I will make a call that we will do so. I hope I can convince people with my plea that this is a very bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u93	If Mr Jansen thought it was so important, he should have been there. As a committee, we've been working on this trajectory for a while. I must say that I do miss Mr Jansen or Forum for Democracy at the moments when we really talk about this in committee and we start the debate together. Does Mr Jansen agree with me that it is very important in our parliamentary work, especially on these major issues which also play at European level, to carry out your supervisory role at any time that an intermediate step is taken? Do you agree with me and, if so, will I see you more often in committee on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u94	Again, I had an asylum debate at that time. So it just didn't go together. I have a lot of wallets and we have a small fraction. I'm sure you'll recognize that. But I actually want to take a step back, because it's not about the procedure. It is not about whether we have had ten committee debates and that at the end of it we still have a digital ID. It's about not wanting to. It doesn't matter how often they talk about it. If it gets there, it's a bad idea. So we should not stare blindly at procedures and meetings. It's about what's the product of what's being developed. And that's a very bad idea, but I haven't heard the rest of the Chamber about it. The rest of the Chamber may have had a lot of meetings on all the comments that can be made on this sort of thing, but in the end this will continue. There has been no motion in which the entire Chamber calls on the government to stop doing this, which is something I would like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u95	Yes, we have several committee debates at the same time and, yes, you set priorities, but I find so much nonsense speaking shocking. The Chamber made a report on this. There has been a rapporteur on it. That report makes it very clear what is going on in Europe and what the Chamber has done. The House does not want this to happen. Those motions are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u96	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u97	It's true. You may insert what you wish to insert and you may say what you say. In fact, not much of what you say is true, but saying that the whole Chamber is not doing anything is also incorrect. And with that, you're doing something very toxic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u98	Does Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u99	Sorry, Chairman. I do not want to blame you; Mr Jansen is doing something very toxic. He tells a great story of a great plot, which I did not see as rapporteur on the EID. He throws away the work of MPs that does take place on it. He cuts a video later, throws it into the world and then starts saying: there is a bedroom, there is a controlled opposition and there is a terrible big plan in Europe. All three of them don't add up. That's bad. You are not here when we are talking about it, when we can talk about it in depth, and you can ask the government. You walk in here, you do your quack, you walk away and you have a video. I actually think that's destructive politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u100	Mr President, I notice that the new fashion word is 'toxic'. What I find very toxic is that the SP is just going to agree to a system that is going to lead to a total control of our lives. Yes, it is. We can all have discussions here about procedures and meetings, the form of the Chamber's handling of this, and a motion on a civil service number that I do support, because we absolutely should not want that either. But it's about something much bigger than this. It's about all these things, which are also in that letter of inquiry. It's incredible, isn't it? This is just gonna go on. Then you may have had a lot of meetings about it, but this government is just going through with it. That's where we have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u101	That letter of office, which you quote all the time, has been corrected by motions, statements in the Chamber. A Van Haga/Leijten motion has been adopted which says: do not. All kinds of motions have been adopted, which Forum will vote for, but will not participate in the debates. So you're telling us something that's been corrected by the Chamber and you're blaming the Chamber for that. The SP has not agreed to it and will not agree to it. I really think you should debate truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u102	Okay, Mr. President, I'd really like to debate the truth, and I do. If you then have any motion, please bring it up as well, because then I can judge it. You may refer to "there are motions," but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u103	Wait a minute, it shouldn't be a one-on-one conversation. I'll give Mrs. Leijten one more time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u104	I would like to make a general point about this, because the European Commission will continue to do so. And the Home Office already has this done. In October, the toolkit will be ready and each Member State will be able to develop its own app. These are certainly the grounds on which that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u105	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr President, I personally object. There is a whole overview, a report of what happened on the EID. There is that whole overview of the House's motions and activities to correct and put the government on the right track. Saying nothing happened is factually incorrect. And then say, "Come forward with motions"? Just read the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u107	Well... it's not factually incorrect. It is factually wrong that the European Commission's policy would have been drastically adjusted. This is now being introduced. There are presentations on this at the Ministry of the Interior every week now. This is something that's being rolled out right now. And yes, perhaps some comments have been made here and there. I would like to assess the content of the motion, but it is about the European Commission working on a centralised system in which the data of 550 million people are stored. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mr President, I have serious objections to the Jansen method, namely never taking part in debates...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u109	I'm here, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u110	... which it is never about, and then in a plenary debate, because according to the Forum for Democracy, that is interesting enough to flutter in, to proclaim lies about fellow politicians here, and to pretend that the Chamber is sleeping. The Chamber has tabled several motions to try to stop the criticism you have made, and we never hear you. DENK has tabled a motion to ask the government to put in the law that this should never be mandatory. That's what you voted for. But were you on those committees? Where were you to file motions ongoing the trial? Your voter has no interest whatsoever in you doing poppiejopies during a plenary debate with lies about colleagues, but where the real Chamber work is done, in the committees, with motions, you do nothing. Then you're gonna choke on your own voter and you're the biggest cause of bad government plans going on, because we don't see anything from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mr President, of course we have nothing to gain from this type of voting. No, these aren't facts. I was at another debate; that happens. We have a small fraction. So, yeah, sometimes you have to make choices. That's not what this is about, is it? It is about the substance of the matter. You can be a bit angry here, a bit of a game: how, we are there, you are not there, we have tabled a motion, blah, but in the end this government continues with its plans. That motion was fine; we also voted in favour of not making it compulsory. But, of course, it will be mandatory. DENK has also had a very bad attitude in this regard. Because with the vaccination and all that: you might not have been personal for it, but in the end it just happened. If you didn't have a coronapas, you weren't allowed in a restaurant or a pub. People were simply prevented from social life under the guise of being "voluntarily." That's what's gonna happen now. So we can have a motion about it not being mandatory, fine, but they just don't care. They're going to force it, directly or indirectly, and that's not gonna change your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u112	That motion is going to change that. In that motion, the government is asked to put it in the law. And the government is bound by the law and the Netherlands is still a rule of law. Mr Jansen points out that his group is small and that he had other priorities. This shows that Forum does not consider this issue to be important enough. Forum does not think this issue is important enough for me to participate in all these debates on this subject, and I myself have been involved in three of them, to question the government and to criticise it. If Mr Jansen sets other priorities, I can only conclude that he does not think it is important enough. DENK is also a small fraction. DENK is here. DENK thinks it's important enough. You're abandoning your voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u113	Again, nobody's gonna use this over-the-top shit. Where was I at the time of those debates? I was at the asylum debate. Your group was absent because at that time you were at another debate. And you know what else matters to me? That we do not fill our country with tens of thousands of asylum seekers every year. Yes, then you have to make a choice, and there was also a debate on digital matters. That debate was much earlier, by the way, but it was postponed every week. So I thought, "I'll come here, because here I can make my point." Because it is not just in committees that there is talk about government plans. No, even here in the plenary. Right here in the plenary. And when it was about the protection of the Netherlands against all that mass immigration, DENK was absent, because DENK wants it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u114	I'll do the interruptions in half, Mr. Van Baarle. You may respond very briefly, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u115	It's personal fact. I would like to correct Mr Jansen. DENK was present at all the debates on asylum. Mr Kuzu is the spokesman for Asylum. Mr Jansen can make a point of denk's presence in debates, because I never see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u116	This is factually incorrect. It was a debate on Mr Kops's bill and DENK was absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u117	I'm gonna try and get it back to what we're talking about today. I am particularly pleased that Mr Jansen is here today. I hope to see him more often. If the response to his input shows anything, it is that he is needed more often in these kinds of debates. I think it's very cheap to start throwing "you weren't there." I wasn't there for the debate, either, because of illness. For the rest, I have hardly missed a debate in digital matters. So please, let us use the precious time today to debate content rather than you-baking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u118	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u119	My question to Mr Jansen concerns the following. I heard a very beautiful, fervent plea for digital anonymity. Mr Jansen will agree with me that this EU train is very difficult to stop. Can we perhaps try to find a way in which users can gain more ownership of their data? Doesn't he see that anymore? Maybe there's a way you can invent things in such a wallet or make them invisible, like some kind of overlay that you can already put on your passport. Can we control that? That might be a little bit more feasible than trying to stop that thundering EU train with a single motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u120	That's a very good question. I'm only afraid of the situation where you won't be able to access the service you're looking for if you turn off that tick of that particular piece of information. This system has of course used Facebook for a long time. You had login methods with Facebook and then you had to give access to some required things and some optional things. You simply couldn't click out those required things. If you wanted to click it out, you just couldn't click "next." I think we're going to end up in a situation where, for example, you can't create a Facebook account or login to your already existing account if, for example, you don't want to share your bank details with Facebook. So I think it's a very dangerous idea at all to rig up such a portal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u121	Once in a while, but if it does, will we stick together to make sure that we can at least limit the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u122	I'm afraid you're right that it's going to happen. Then you will find us at your side to hopefully limit that somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr Van Weerdenburg just called for the debate to take place in substance. I'm very sorry for that. I would like to endorse what my fellow Members from DENK, SP and ChristenUnion have said about the factual inaccuracies that Mr Jansen has raised here, that discussions on European identity have not been discussed in the Chamber and that the Chamber has done nothing. I have a question for him. Is he aware of Parlis' existence? That is a parliamentary information system in which you can also look at debates where you have not been able to attend. You can see which motions have been tabled, so that you can also have knowledge of the situation on that basis and not have to debit this kind of untruth in a plenary debate on digital matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u124	Yes. What are you gonna say to this? I think it's a bit of a waste of time to make this kind of silly jokes about and about. I never said it hadn't been discussed, as the lady says. Of course I know the existence of that. Let's not waste any more time on this, because it's just not very funny either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u125	I have already heard you in this block, Mrs Leijten, so I would like to be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u126	The debate which Mr Jansen gave priority to began well after he could have done his contribution and debate on digital matters. It often happens that small groups leave a little earlier than that. Van Haga does that a lot. He'll be here. It was also at this debate. He also left early to combine it. It could've just happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u127	Okay. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u128	All of that could be possible. I am also going to another committee during this debate today. Sometimes that's possible, sometimes it doesn't work. That's right. Those are choices you have to make sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u129	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u130	We had the government's support for the digital ID. It wasn't that strong. Is this like a social credit system as in China? No, I'm not arguing that at all. But we do see a development across Europe, in many different places, in which good behavior is linked to socio-economic or social consequences through digital solutions. Bologna's working on it. Rome is working on it. The state of Bayern is working on it. That's just very dangerous. We're on a trend that way. We also see that the financial sector is fully engaged in developing algorithms for the automatic calculation of CO emissions on the basis of transactions. Mastercard has such a system. Rabobank has such a system. The chairman of the Alibaba Group announced such a similar system that it operates on the basis of travel, food and online transactions. All this is one step away from linking CO emissions to social consequences. We have even seen a European social credit system, the corona-QR app. Only if you showed good behavior, namely vaccination, did you gain access to socio-economic life. The developers of the corona app themselves said that the corona access card served as a stepping stone to a full digital identity. I quote: "A digital test and vaccination certificate will help the entire field of digital ID on the way. This isn't just about COVID-19, it's about something much bigger." That's what Andrew Bud said, the developer of the British corona app. Mr. Chairman. In short, we are on the verge of a very dangerous development. While the Chamber wants to lose itself in all sorts of procedures, this development continues. The technique makes it possible to rig up a fully-fledged social credit system to bring every aspect of our lives under the full control of governments and companies to reduce people to manageable products. Where you used to close the door and have a private life without government interference, without interference from the big business, you'll have Ursula von der Leyen and Jeff Bezos in your pocket. There is no basis for a digital ID. There is no need for it among the population. The only people who want to do this are large international retail companies, internet giants, banks and governments, because they get better because they can make money from it, because they have more power over our lives. We really shouldn't want this. Forum for Democracy calls on all Dutch, all Europeans, to oppose it, to all MPs not to lose themselves in procedures and meetings, not to be naive about where this leads and to oppose it. We must stand for freedom. We have to stand for privacy. We have to stand for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u131	Just to check on Mr. Jansen. You're making sure there's a central storage facility. But what is in the text of the EU proposal? Does the proposal you mention now appear in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u132	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u133	You referred to the fact that there would be a centralized data storage. But my specific question to you is: is it in the proposal that is now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u134	No, it'll be decentralised through the toolkit. I understand there's a technical difference between them. Whether you pick it up on a decentralised basis in another place or put it centrally on a single database, centralising it all has security issues, the ultimate effect on social life is going to be the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u135	Mr. Chairman. You just gave up...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u136	Mr. Jansen indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u137	You're right, Mr. Chairman. I don't know where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u138	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u139	Mr Jansen indicated that it was in her pocket with Ursula von der Leyen at the push of a button, et cetera. You are really talking about the fact that you are also expressing that there is apparently central data, that there is not an open source, that there was also a motion on this last time, and that this is a matter of concern to you. But again, my question is: is it in the proposal that is currently before us? I do not think that is the case. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u140	To a large extent, I agree with that. I chose that phrase because... Unfortunately, we don't have 20 minutes to talk about it here. Here's what I'm talking about. It is, of course, technically decentralised, but it has a centralized effect, because it is standardised and accessible in all places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u141	Very good. So far. Then we're gonna... Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u142	I have another perhaps reflective question for Mr Jansen. Can you imagine...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u143	He can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u144	He doesn't have 20 minutes, but can he imagine that if he makes such a story and people watch it and see it on Twitter, people will actually believe that there is a central system? So, Mr. Jansen, shouldn't you be more careful with your words, as you just pointed out in your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u145	I would very much have liked to discuss the exact technique. I also hear Mrs Von der Leyen shouting things about 505 million people. Of course, the effect is aggregation. In that sense it is central, because the data of 505 million people become available via one application, although they are then decentralised on servers. However, the effect is still the same, namely that it is aggregated to 505 million people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u146	Fine. So far. Now we're going to listen to the representatives of D66. Luckily, this doesn't happen at the same time. We have four more speakers to speak on the side of the Chamber. After the period of the Chamber, I'll suspend for lunch. I call Mrs Van Ginneken from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike the speakers' order on the list, I'm going first. I also have another debate where I am going for a moment. Mr. Chairman. Digital matters is a broad subject, which has been with two D66 speakers since the beginning of this year. I am talking today about a digital budget, cybersecurity and digital civil rights. Colleague Dekker then takes care of algorithms and social media. Mr. Chairman. D66 is pleased that we now have all the cabinet plans in one place in the main letter, but the next step is the financial side. In 2013, a D66 motion arranged for the budget to have an overall overview of all the BES budgets, for our Caribbean islands. We have a motion to achieve the same in the digital field, so that in the autumn we can have a debate on the digital spending of the entire cabinet and the Chamber can carry out its controlling task properly. I would like to ask the directors to respond to this idea. Mr. Chairman. Last month, we talked about cybersecurity. So I don't want to say much about that right now. However, I would like to say that it is very important that we keep our society safe from digital interference and that we protect our knowledge-based economy from our prosperity. So it is good that the cabinet will invest more, but more money is not enough. D66 believes that we should stop the fragmentation of our digital resilience and have a much wider-functioning National Cyber Security Centre that helps protect all companies and organisations in our country. My question is: when is that a fact? Mr. Chairman. Then there are three points concerning digital civil rights. Firstly, laws that use or propose personal data are created on the conveyor belt: PNR, House for Whistleblowers and Truck Charges. Collecting more data is not always better, especially if the supervisory capacity of the Dutch Data Protection Authority is left behind. That's what I call a sneak-out. D66 welcomes the catch-up investment in this cabinet's AP, but it does not solve this problem in a structural way. Can the Cabinet therefore undertake to include in each legislative proposal, with a collection of personal data, the additional supervisory capacity of the AP for this purpose? Second. Finally, my motion seems to be arrested to protect the addresses ofzzp'ers, such as journalists, in the Trade Register. In anticipation of the final law, the Minister wants to allow sole proprietorship cases to include a mailbox as a physical address. That sounds good, though I have a few more questions. I'm making one of those now. When canzzp'ers do this? Can we do this in the short term? Mr. Chairman. I am aware of the time, but Mr Dekker and I have agreed on a slightly different relationship. So I will continue with the next point. Mr. Chairman. Then facial recognition in public space. That is a major violation of our rights. Fortunately, the European AI Act is going to restrict this considerably, but that regulation is not yet in place. As far as D66 is concerned, this means that facial recognition should be proactively suspended. The government promised no facial recognition in the coalition agreement without strict legal demarcation and control. My question to the Minister of JenV is therefore where facial recognition is still used in public space, why, and when it is suspended. I'll leave it at that. My colleague Hind will discuss the other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u148	Exciting. Mrs. Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Trust in the government can only happen if the government trusts people too. It appears that it is increasingly wrong when it comes to the use of algorithms and citizens. See only the conclusions of the General Court: six of the nine algorithms tested in the government prove worrying. It shouldn't be possible. That is why I am pleased that Mrs Bouchallichh's and myself's motion on human rights testing for algorithms has been adopted. I'm also glad we're getting a letter about the algorithm watchdog this quarter. That's not enough for D66. There should ideally be legal frameworks in which policy rules of algorithms are public and traceable. I'd like a response. We have to start at the beginning. The cabinet promised us an algorithm registry. When will the Claver motion be carried out? According to the GDPR, the government must use processing registers. Shouldn't it also mention when an algorithm is used? I'd like a response. Let's stop stalling. Many municipalities already set a good example. Let the Netherlands take the lead with this, even in Europe. Mr. Chairman. Then the role of the tech guys. At the hearing on big tech, organized by colleagues Van Ginneken and Rajkowski, we saw how over and over again we did not do enough to combat hate-sowing and polarization. In fact, RTL reported last week that techs like TikTok don't even follow their own rules when it comes to suicide or other harmful content. The DSA is expected to enter into force in 2024. As far as D66 is concerned, this cannot happen fast enough, because the impact of big tech on our society is high. Does the Minister agree? Are we going to be strictly enforced? Shouldn't the Minister start talking to chatting right now, so that platforms comply with the rules as soon as possible? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you. Perfect timing with the two of us, I must say. Then Mr Cedar of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Chairman. Our democratic rule of law and our way of living together cannot exist without our shared values, values such as human dignity, equality, freedom, responsibility, charity, but also space for difference. This also applies to the subject of digitalisation. New technologies are coming at us at a rapid pace and are increasingly affecting our physical, biological and social-cultural world. Artificial intelligence, algorithms, big data, internet or things, the cloud, quantum computers and robotics: all this also affects children's lives. Digitisation inevitably affects public values. The Chamber plays a role in securing those values. Make no mistake: technology with proper guidance will make lives better and close gaps. If we don't steer this properly and seize it properly, technology can also make gaps bigger and it has the power to destroy societies. It can enlarge the gaps between rich and poor and the haves and the portot, and can make gaps bigger for future generations. That is precisely why the Christian Union is considering these guiding values. We'll have to talk to each other in front. My group welcomes the fact that the cabinet is aware of the importance of value-driven government policies in the digital transition, by formulating their own values and committing to them in legislation, the cabinet strategy and research. They must also serve public values in digitalisation, we read. Mr. Chairman. But when I read what the Secretary of State has formulated as public values, I find them, quite frankly, even lean. She calls security, democracy, self-determination, non-discrimination, participation, privacy and inclusiveness. But this is not explained further. I also miss a number of values that we as a Chamber broadly share. I also mentioned these values at the beginning of my speech. So this is not enough for my group. I am addressing this precisely because from now on we are really going to steer towards the different technologies that are coming towards us. Also on the content, I think that the values are missing something. I miss the eye for simplicity and the eye for vulnerable people. I miss the desire to do the utmost to use technology in such a way that it supports the most vulnerable in society, but also that technology can be used for innovation and easy to control. I therefore think that this should be looked at more fundamentally. There must be a more fundamental debate on these values before we allow them to lead the decision-making process on digital developments. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a separate letter in which she elaborates on these values and to which the Chamber can then relate more broadly? Mr. Chairman. I just reported the following, too. It is important for the Christian Union in the next period how we deal with children's rights in the digital environment. What additional steps are we going to take to protect children? I have three proposals for this. One tool that can help is the Code of Children's Rights. What is the Secretary of State doing to get companies to actually use the code? What else can she do to implement the code? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the child impact assessment, whereby digital services are required to account for the digital impact on children. How is privacy guaranteed? How are children protected from exploitation, but also from digital bullying? How do you prevent children from getting in touch with harmful content? Mr Bontenbal just gave the example of those so addictive loot boxes. Many digital services are really not doing enough about this right now. Is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce a legal obligation to such a child impact assessment? Mr. Chairman. The third point. We have just talked about harmful content such as extreme violence and child pornography. I would also like to dwell on that. Last month, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly discussed a resolution on this issue, specifically on protection against pornographic content. The resolution has been discussed and adopted, with recommendations for the Member States. Can I ask the Cabinet to come up with a letter this autumn, which deals with the analysis of the Assembly and the recommendations made to the countries? Mr. Chairman. Finally, accessibility. In order to settle matters with the government, you need to use a website or application more often. However, many government applications are inaccessible if you can see poorly, are less digitally skilled or have learning difficulties. This leads to exclusion of these groups of people. The law therefore requires governments to publish an up-to-date accessibility statement for their apps. But Stichting Appt concludes that only 1.25% of the estimated nearly 600 government apps are inaccessible. In addition, information on the accessibility of hundreds of government apps is lacking and it is unclear exactly how many unique apps the government has. This has to be better. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State exactly what the targets and deadlines are. How is access to government websites and apps monitored? Mr. Chairman. My last question. We have adopted a motion on European eID. The Secretary of State then went to the Council of Europe. What's the outcome of that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u152	Very good. Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Raan of the Group of the Party of Animals. Then we'll have lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr. Chairman. The digital revolution is changing our society at a rapid pace. But how exactly that goes, remains largely hidden behind beautifully designed apps that we use. The principles remain equally important: the right to privacy and the right to be protected against the rights of the strongest. As the book The Internet is broken, by Marleen Stikker, finely shows, we have largely left the revolution to the market. We've lost digitization to the market. It's like Apple's A2 and it decides who gets on it and who gets ahead. The Secretary of State also acknowledges this danger. Thus, a role for the government has clearly been given away to take back power and steer it towards added value for society to prevent developments that are damaging society. The letter of early March contains good words about this. But how will that take shape, especially when it comes to reducing the dominant position of large companies? What is the view of the rulers on steering the greatest social benefit, also called broad prosperity? How do we do that? How does the government ensure, for example, that privacy does not always take account of economic or other interests? Are we sufficiently prepared for changing circumstances? It may seem cool that women can easily track their cycle in an app, but America is now showing the danger of that. After one court ruling, companies may be subpoenaed there to share their data, because it shows who has illegally had an abortion. You can't imagine abortion has become illegal now. Those are unintended effects. How does the Secretary of State see the risk of making such a strong commitment to the EU? The EU is moving at the speed of the slowest. That is the nature of the EU. This is much slower than the rapid developments. What do we do if there are other fundamental considerations in the EU that we do not want to support? Take the proposal of the Johansson Commission to effectively make the end-to-end encryption of Signal impossible. The policy must safeguard privacy, not interfere with it. This also means that, if it takes the words in the main letter seriously, which is the case, the cabinet should actually take back a law such as the Data Processing Act by Partnerships, which lies in the Upper Chamber. I wonder why that hasn't happened yet. By the way, well-meant policies to give the individual direction can also hinder privacy. Indeed, an individual cannot be expected to be able to oversee the complexity of data trading. In fact, it is strange that we still assume the delusion that clicking on a cookie request really means consent. With the focus on directing the individual, do we place that individual not too much in front of the tech giants? They actually leave the individual free of chance. How does the Secretary of State view that? Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point, namely the climate aspect of digitalisation. I do not read enough about this in the letter. It's a white stain, while digitalization can save a lot of CO. If we don't fly anymore, but video calls and travel with VR glasses instead of physical, then these are all good developments in terms of climate policy. There is also a lot of CO-free through ICT technology. Everything we do online makes sure that CO is emitted. It seems very little, namely 4 grams per e-mail, but there are 330 billion e-mails a day. That's half a gigaton. That is already more global emissions than aviation. Bitcoin manufacturing costs 40 nuclear power plants Borssele. Which brings me to my question. How does the cabinet ensure that the CO impact is as small as possible, so that digitalisation not only saves but also contributes to the reduction of emissions, so that it goes net down? Digitisation can be very effective, but if it makes a net contribution to emissions, we're still not getting anywhere. Is the Secretary of State open to an investigation, including, for example, a bit tax? Bit tax is an effective way to tax the climate damage that is caused and gives an incentive to reduce emissions. Mr. Chairman. I'll close with the hyperscale data centers. We seem to be adjusting the course just in time, but what is the government's view on attracting less large but equally energy-intensive data centres to the Netherlands, as the Netherlands still has a huge shortage of renewable energy? What are the consequences for government policy now, for example, the municipality of Hollands Kroon seems to oppose even more data centers? Is the Secretary of State prepared to provide the new emerging technologies with a sustainability impact analysis in its implementation agenda? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u154	If you think you've heard everything, it's about the CO impact of e-mails. I was wondering if Mr Van Raan could tell us what the alternatives to online communication are. I heard his colleague Ouwehand say in another debate that an energy-efficient dryer is a laundry rack; that can be quite simple. Now I've been thinking. Paper's not good either. That's incriminating, too. I don't think pigeons are allowed by the Party for Animals either. Smoke signals... I'm not getting on it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u155	The goose feather?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u156	Yes, the colleague is absolutely right: no pigeons. I fully agree with her; they are indeed not a good idea. The point I was trying to make is as follows. Digitalisation, ICT, can also play a huge role in tackling the climate crisis, namely where it replaces activities that emit a lot of CO. I was talking about video calls, VR and stuff like that. At the same time, you have to look at the impact of the whole. If we start to emit more CO with more advanced ICT applications and do not use that advantage in the sectors in which ICT plays an important role, then CO will only be added. Science tells us that the cumulative effect of CO emissions is the problem. I have tried to make it clear that there is a great opportunity for digitisation to bring down that cumulative impact, which is cumulative emissions. By the way, I still recommend you use a laundry rack instead of a dryer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u157	Then I can make Mr Van Raan happy. I don't have a dryer. I do have a laundry rack.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u158	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u159	I'm pretty small. His story is clear, but I still haven't heard what the alternative is. We're not gonna stop this progress, the online communication and the data usage. We can decide here in the Netherlands that we are not going to set up data centers anymore, but then they come to Germany, Ireland or England. What is Mr Van Raan's solution to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u160	Short. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u161	I'm getting the request to be brief. Once again, it is about replacing ICT technology with unsustainable emissions. That is a good thing. Progress doesn't stop you, does it? I think that's what I started my speech with. But when it comes down to it, so that cumulative emissions are increasing worldwide, then it's not gonna help us, because then we're still gonna be farming backwards. That was the point of the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u162	Very good. I can still feel a pigeon move coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u163	Well, Mr. Chairman, what's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u164	Well, that I'm chairman, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-5.u165	We're going to suspend until 1:15 p.m. Then we're gonna listen to the three rulers, the three divas.
