ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the directors: the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, Mrs Adriaansens, and the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, Mrs Uslu. We start with the two-minute debate Support package for the cultural and creative sector plus the guarantee scheme events and the evaluation of the field labs. First, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and good morning. I came back to Nijmegen yesterday and I saw a very long line there for pop center Sleeping Beauty. It took some getting used to seeing a line like that. Of course, it's very nice that this happened yesterday. At the same time, we also know that the number of visitors in the entire cultural and creative sector is very different. We know that visitors sometimes stay away. We could also read that last week in an article in the NRC, which had made an inventory. This showed that especially the museums are still having a very difficult time. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she is also getting signals that it is very variable in terms of visitor numbers. What does this mean in concrete terms for theatres, for pop stages and for museums? What does this mean for the rest of the chain, for example forzzp'ers? About thosezzp'ers: the Secretary of State had promised us in the debate that she would come up with a letter about the so-called administrative arrangements that would be made around the trickledown effect and thus around thezzp'ers. We haven't gotten that letter yet, so I'd like to ask the Secretary of State about the administrative arrangements. What's the status? What exactly is that supposed to be? It is still unclear to us to what extent this really came off the ground. Mr. Chairman. I hope, of course, that we will have a summer in which everything can be done again. But as a corona spokesperson, I also know that a new virus variant can of course emerge. I'd like to know what's gonna happen next. Have good agreements been made with festival organizers, for example about testing at events? What's done with that? Are we ready? Are there scenarios ready in the long run? Mr. Chairman. We are about to table a motion with Mr Kwint on the guarantee fund. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, then I give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	What a pre-announcement in such a way! It will not surprise the precise listener after both the debate and the announcement by Mrs Westerveld that we are not yet reassured. We all hope, of course, that we will meet a summer in which necessary cancellations and restrictions remain far from us. But if we've learned anything in recent years, it's that you can never say that with any certainty. Then it is important that we help organisers who have been in trouble for years and who simply no longer have any reserves. That is why we have the next proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the event of an event ban, the maximum rate of reimbursement of the current guarantee fund is 80% or 90%, depending on the starting date;]] [[Whereas events organisers cannot make the 10% or 20% own contribution after two years of corona restrictions, and therefore sometimes even decide not to continue an event;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to increase the maximum rate of reimbursement of the guarantee fund to 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	Just to be clear, when a summer arrives in which nothing is cancelled, this proposal costs nothing. When is this proposal going to cost money? At a time when there will be restrictive measures throughout society and we will therefore have to look again at all kinds of aid measures. But at least this way we give organizers the certainty. Then about the people who make all these events possible. Think about the stage builders, the light engineers and the sound engineers. We hear stories that a lot of people have left the sector and that it is sometimes even an obstacle to the organisation of events. I understand that these people have meanwhile gone looking for a job where they are at home a little earlier on weekends, but it is really important that we continue to invest in good professionals that make the events possible. That is why we have the next proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas during the corona pandemic, a lot of people who have made cultural performances possible behind the scenes, such as sound and stage builders, have left the sector;]] [[noting that without these people the cultural and creative sector has a major problem;]] [[calls on the government in the Cultural Sector Recovery Plan to also address the labour market for people in these facilitating positions and to work with the sector to address the shortages in these professions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Van Strien.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-481]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would like to stress here that it is not a question of the Secretary of State coming up with ideas on her own ministry. I think they're in the sector, too. Those discussions on the recovery plan are taking place. We would like to see this point taken on board. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Strien of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	Good morning, Madam President. It's good to see the rulers back together. We also noted in the committee debate that both are necessary to bring the cultural and creative sectors back to life. That is why I have a brief question for both of them in connection with the committee debate. First of all, my question to the Minister. We discussed the arrangement of the current guarantee fund in the committee debate. Mr Kwint has already referred to this: the three or six weeks, the 80% or the 100%. The Minister indicated that she would examine the concerns of the Chamber and the sector. She said that if events can't happen in the near future because the current arrangement doesn't fit, "we have the wrong arrangement." How's that exercise coming? Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber before the summer of the results of these talks and the possible solutions? Then my question to the Secretary of State. In the debate we talked a lot about the trickledown. That's what it was all about a moment ago. How did the corona aid payments via the BIS institutions, the funds, the municipalities and the guarantee schemes end up with subcontractors, creators and artists? Based on the conversations in and with the field, I conclude that there is enough information to make that analysis this summer. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. Can it promise that it will bundle all this information and provide a letter by Q3 at the latest, in which it appreciates and evaluates how that trickledown has run from the different flows and what can be done better? A second question to the Secretary of State is also about trickledown, about a concrete example that is now emerging. It concerns the free theater producers and theirzzp'ers who, because of the slow spending of the compensation money, are in danger of getting into liquidity problems. The applications are there. Can the Secretary of State, together with the Podium Arts Fund, order that, together with Culture+Entrepreneurship, this payment be speeded up quickly in order to avoid liquidity problems in this important sector? Finally, for me too, it is evidently a tradition today to pre-announcement. I wholeheartedly support the call in the Witten/Van Strien motion, which will shortly be proposed. I look forward to seeing all the beauty that we will be able to see in the Passage of the States in the near future and that will surprise us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, then, to the last speaker, Mrs Wuite of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. I also had to restrain myself from micromanaging, as was just whispered by the colleague, but we all get very excited about it at first. I also look back at a constructive debate with both the Minister and the Secretary of State, with an attitude which I hope will be applied more frequently. I think it is urgently necessary to place culture in a much broader perspective. I have one more question for the Minister. Indeed, it also has to do with the event sector and the international playing field. Could cultural entrepreneurs who work internationally also be entitled to the guarantee scheme? There are some hiccups there, I understand. Of course, it's about reopening. That has happened by now. We look forward to the recovery plan with great sorrow. One of my motions also refers to that appreciation, which I hope will be a little more palpable here in politics in The Hague. That's why two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas culture is an essential part of our society;]] [[Whereas the corona pandemic has affected novice creators and producers, thereby reducing their chances of showing their work to a wider audience;]] [[Whereas the cultural and creative sectors should be more involved in societal issues;]] [[calls on the Bureau to open the State Passage at least one meeting week this year as a stage for novice cultural and creative makers and producers, together with the Art Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wuite and Mr Van Strien.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas municipalities have received specific funding to support the cultural sector over the past two years but this does not always benefit the cultural sector and its creators;]] [[Whereas the cultural sector still has to deal with the effects of the coronapandemic, for example in the form of slow-moving visitors' flows;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with VNG and IPO to discuss how municipalities will ensure that cultural institutions and creators dependent on municipal funding should not close doors or end work due to the corona-related financial problems, and invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the outcome of these consultations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wuite.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	Then we have come to the end of the Chamber's term. I'll take a look at the directors and see if they need a short break. Five minutes? Then we'll be back in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	We're gonna start again. This brings us to the answer of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the contributions of the members of your Chamber. First of all, I should like to refer to the motion for a resolution on item No. 480. It is about increasing the rate of reimbursement of the guarantee fund. I'm gonna have to dissuade them anyway. I understand the sympathetic background to this motion. I certainly understand that, but it has really been a conscious choice of the cabinet to place a part of the risk of organizing events with the entrepreneur in the transition from a situation where corona is endemic. In the last letter sent to your Chamber by a number of directors, it is also really clear how we go from one stage to another and end the support packages. This is all part of the debate, as I explained in more detail. That's why we're sticking to the proposed 90% in Q1 and 80% in Q2 and Q3. However, we have promised to keep a very good finger on the wrist. I think that's very important. We are all very happy that this is not the case at the moment. I'd like to give your room this, too. It is said: if we do not need it, then we do not need it and we do not need to spend it. But it is about 120 million, and I have no cover for that either, quite simply. It's really quite a big amount. If you were gonna expand it, you'd have to have that amount, but it's not there. But the main argument is that it doesn't fit the strategy we have for this stage of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	Then I look at Mr Kwint for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	The Minister says that it becomes part of the ordinary entrepreneurial risk, but it is impossible to guarantee against it. It's not your fault. It happens to you, and the government decides to take this. In what way should an entrepreneur allow this to be part of his ordinary business, especially if he has not been able to use it in recent years to build up reserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	This is a challenge for a lot of entrepreneurs who have suffered from coronallock downs and restrictions, but there is also a possibility to organise more activities in summer or in periods where we know there is less risk, perhaps with a small price increase. There are possibilities. The sector is also considering this. There's just a limit to what we can compensate with each other. It is also taxpayers' money, and we must deal with it in a very sensible way, no matter how much sympathy I have for the motion you have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	Finally, Mr Kwint, because of course you have already had a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	There's no line at all. We can do this easy. The cabinet has decided not to do it. That's fine; that's a legitimate choice. I don't agree, but it's not like it can't. It's a reservation and you have a pretty good chance that the money won't even be spent. The moment it has to be spent, we are in such a situation that it could happen that the billions are flying around us again anyway, in terms of support packages. At least I would have said here that it is not true that it is not possible. It can even be very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	And at least you said that. Then I see an interruption by Mrs Wuite.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, perhaps also a question to the Minister. Of course, macroeconomic considerations have also been taken into account that the event sector has been an important driver of the economy in recent years. Is the Minister able to analyse the difference between 80% and 100% and what impact that will have on that form of security needed to take back that exciting feature of the event sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	What we'll do is keep our finger on the wrist. At the moment, it is not at issue to the extent that we really expect large claims on this guarantee fund and these schemes. But to think through all the scenarios now... We are talking to the sector to understand how recovery is going and where it is difficult. We want to keep a good feeling for that. The moment there was really going to be another lockdown, we're all back here. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	I do not want to repeat the debate. I really want to limit it to the motion and the response given by the Minister. Finally, Mrs Wuite.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	That is correct, Mr President, but I fear that this was not entirely an answer to my question. The question was whether the difference between 80% and 100% can contribute to the investment impulse you want to return to the event sector. That was the question, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think the question in the way it is being asked is rather complicated, but I would like to look at it. I know the amount you're talking about. It's about 120 million, so it's about the impact of 120 million on investment capital, because that's what you're talking about. That will be divided between different organisations, because that is how it is built. I'll look into how that'll work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	Then I see an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	The Minister calls it an entrepreneurial risk, but of course there is a difference, because we are talking about a sector with large and small players who depend to a large extent on a number of major events, often in the summer months. We have already had two summers in which many of these events, most of them, could not continue and were sometimes cancelled at the very last minute. They couldn't help it. A lot of these people have already invested heavily in their own wealth. That is why I would like to ask the Minister the following. If a number of events were to be cancelled next summer, wouldn't it be that if these entrepreneurs were to turn their backs on, the economic but also the social damage would be much greater than if they could claim support and hopefully make a start in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u29	Two answers to that. First of all, with the adjustment of the scheme for this year, we also have the addition that there is still a three-week grace period if something is cancelled when a lockdown is announced. So we've given that entrepreneur, the event organizer, a little more space to anticipate, so the costs can also be a little more limited. They've often been in the last few weeks. That doesn't quite cover it, but that does give a little more space. Well, that does something to your planning ability. With regard to bankruptcies, we have a general toolbox that also applies to these entrepreneurs, where we can help to clean up and prevent debt and give guarantees, guarantees and credits. There's an incredible amount in the repertoire right now. That is also described in detail in the letters. We're really gonna keep our finger on the wrist there. We also have casuistic tables where we try to understand where it wrings, so where the individual cases come on the table to see if the instruments are adequate. We believe that this is a good way to help entrepreneurs get through this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would suggest that the answer by the cabinet should continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u31	Then I come to Mrs Westerveld's question, who asked: what if Corona raises its head again? That is my translation of your question. Is that plan there yet? We are in close contact with the event sector and we are also in contact with the cultural sector, where the Secretary of State is intensively talking about the long term and the possible measures they can take themselves should a new lockdown threaten. They would like to come up with a proposal themselves. We are actually expecting their approach this month on how they could do that, with all the experience they have gained over the past period. Then we can tell you before the summer what that might look like. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Strien asked about the commitment I made earlier to see whether there is any hesitation in organising events because there is that risk and what it does to the market, so to speak. As has been said, we are always in intensive conversation with the sector. This is one of the good experiences we have gained in recent years. We sometimes see some restraint now, but we do not see any major obstacles to organising events or performances, so not to the extent that we are concerned. But we'll take care of that. I think that's important. He asked: can you tell me more about this, other than verbally? I would be happy to write a letter before the summer about the experiences in recent months, so that we are also forced to take a very close look at them. Mr. Chairman. Then we had Mrs Wuite's question about the international playing field. I'll leave the part about the State Passage to the Secretary of State. If an event takes place here, it is possible to claim the costs related to the Netherlands and the Caribbean Netherlands, i.e. the whole Kingdom, under the scheme. So it's possible. For the people who work internationally, what happens here, so in our Kingdom, the costs can be claimed. That would have brought me to the end of my reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you. Then the floor is for Secretary of State. I'm gonna see if I can get the speaker chair up a little bit. That might be more convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u33	First of all, Mrs Westerveld's question about institutions struggling: do I have an eye for that? Settings struggle with visitor numbers that don't get off to a good start. People have a lot to catch up on. There is a competition for leisure time. Part of the public is cautious, especially the vulnerable part. Luckily, young people are a little less cautious. There's a lot of no-shows, I hear and read. We miss the tourists, especially in museums. Institutions have to deal with personnel problems. Think of the breakdown of staff and a lack of technicians, interior builders and catering staff. Performances are cancelled by positive testing and isolation. But luckily, the culture is open. Of course, we should all be very happy about that, and we are. Rebooting, especially for some sectors, is difficult. In general, you can see it's tricky. But it's in full swing and moving. I can report that I'm keeping an eye on it. I'm on and I'm watching. Then there was a question regarding administrative arrangements and investigations around the trickledown. This was a question from Mrs Westerveld and also from Mr Van Strien. Appointments were made with the VVTP and the NAPK about the trickledown. In Q3, I will inform the Chamber in writing. Also the report of the Boekmanstichting (Boekmanstichting) which is in the process of research; that is specifically aimed at zzp'ers and the payment. Mr Van Strien also asked me about the payment of the compensation scheme. I can say that the submission of applications and their assessment take time. That must be done carefully. The Fonds Podiumkunsten makes every effort to do so very quickly, so to assess as quickly as possible and to make payments. The fund will be paid out in mid-May. People have been hired especially for this. The fund is therefore working very intensively on this. In the meantime, producers can take out a loan from Cultuur+Entrepreneurship to cover the time to pay out the grant. There is no need for an assignment, because the fund is willing and able to give an opinion on the applications, also towards Culture+Entrepreneurship. However, I am pleased with this question, because it addresses this issue. I share the observation and the concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u34	First, I'd like to continue, so that you've also discussed the judgments of the motions. Then at the end, let's see what's left of any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u35	Okay. The motion in part No. 481 belongs to Mr Kwint. May I interpret the motion as follows? We are committed to the cultural labour market in a broad, and we will include the facilitating, executive, workers in the sector. We will give further room for the plans from the sector. If I may take the motion that way, I can give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u36	I see Mr Kwint nodding, so the motion can be read in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u37	I come to the motion on the State Passage, in part No. 482. I think I need to find out. Let me come back to that. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u38	There's a point of request in the motion, but it's addressed to the Bureau. So you can leave this to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yeah, okay. Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u40	The final motion is the motion in part No. 483.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u41	Hasn't she been treated yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u42	Has he been treated by the Minister? Yes. That motion has received judgment from Chamber. Okay. Finally, a question from Mrs Westerveld remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u43	I had a short question. The Minister said she would inform the Chamber in the third quarter, so only after the summer, about the administrative arrangements. I would like to ask the Minister whether this can be done sooner, because perhaps she is making it far too big now. She also says: I want to wait for the Boekmanstichting's investigation. But this is something we have already asked the predecessor of the current minister, Minister Van Engelshoven. I am not asking for a very comprehensive and comprehensive package of explanations. We just want to know a few simple things. What's going on with these appointments? What exactly is the deal? What effect does that have on the sector? So I hope that information can come a little sooner than after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u44	I can report the appointments earlier. I thought Mrs Westerveld was also referring to the results of the report. I can inform the Chamber about the administrative arrangements earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate. Next Tuesday there will be votes on the motions tabled in the two-minute debate on the support package for the cultural and creative sectors. Now I see Mrs. Wuite sitting with her finger up. You can still interrupt. Walk to the interrupting microphone, Mrs. Wuite.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u46	I have one more question for you, Mr President, for clarity. Did that motion in part No. 483, on the consultation with the VNG and the IPO, did the State Secretary and the Minister give a ruling? Did that motion get that judgment from both of you? I'm just a little confused about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u47	I understand the Minister has given the motion judgment Chamber. And the minister does that on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u48	For the sake of clarity, I did not deal explicitly with this motion. So Mrs. Wuite is right. But I think it would be fine to give that motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u49	Good. Then we've got that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-3.u50	We have really come to the end of the discussions on this matter. We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I thank the rulers. We will continue with the next two-minute debate. I see a number of spokesmen are ready for that.
