ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	We proceed with the following legislative proposal: Change in the Constitution of the provision on changes in the Constitution (Review Constitutional Review Procedure) (35789).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	There are a number of speakers. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. The SP welcomes this bill. That is what we did at first reading. We have insisted that it is in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. What was the case? There was an initiative legislative proposal for a referendum. The Members who had tabled it did not want to re-subscribe it after the first reading after the elections. That's when Ronald van Raak did it. It was really an embarrassing performance, because you have to submit a legislative proposal that was adopted at first reading at second reading in order to achieve that two-thirds majority. That was picked up by another member. Now there is a procedure for it, and now it says in the Constitution that you need to do it quickly. Changing the Constitution is not easy. It can't be fast, and it's right. At the same time, you shouldn't let it go for years. For this reason, the SP is very pleased that we will shortly be discussing another constitutional amendment, which went through the Second and First Chambers at first reading, namely the right to the binding corrective referendum, something that the Remkes State Commission has embraced, because they say: that gives a voice to people who do not see themselves represented in the elections, for example, because they never get the representation in the government, or because they don't feel their voice heard in The Hague. By dealing with this bill here within one or two weeks, we hope to contribute to the whole discussion we are having in this Chamber about what we can do with out-of-date Dutch voters. I am, of course, counting on the warm support of a majority of more than two thirds to settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	Hope brings life, colleague Leijten. Mr. Chairman. I can be relatively brief on this proposal, which clarifies the review procedure. My group also supports the proposal to ensure that this review procedure is completed quickly and that there can be no more aimless or strategic waiting between two readings, but the new House of Representatives, which can take immediate action. It is also a good thing that we have now included a safety net in the Rules of Procedure for both own-initiative and non-initiative proposals. Mr. Chairman. Still, I have one more question. In the note on the basis of the report, the Government states that it is convinced that if a proposal is examined directly at second reading on the day of the first meeting and both the Government and the House of Representatives take up this treatment expeditiously, a timely and thorough legal procedure is possible in all cases, even if the House of Representatives is disbanded in the near future. We also discussed this at first reading, and I would like to believe that this is true. Yet tomorrow, this Chamber will be sitting for another year and Cabinets will have fallen before a year has passed. We have, of course, asked a number of times, either from the Committee on the Interior or from this place, to deal with it quickly. The question of whether this is the 'competent urgency' of the Rules of Procedure should be answered as a Chamber, but I would also like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this. So what is the guarantee and what is the possibility of further reducing this delay? The answer, also on the cabinet side, was delayed at some stages, while we continued to deal with this as a Chamber despite the outgoing status of the cabinet. Or does the Minister say that, in fact, it is also a good reason to review the whole constitutional review procedure once again? The idea that the electorate will vote on the constitutional reforms that are pending or adopted at first reading by the previous House of Representatives is, of course, just a bit of a fiction. We've been talking about that this morning. I couldn't find them all in our own election program either. That is, of course, something that is a bit out of date, as far as it has ever really existed. So I'm curious how the Minister looks at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna go see the minister and see if she can answer directly. That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Leijten gave a very correct account of how this provision was put into effect. In recent years, a number of questions have arisen concerning the application of the current procedure for amending the Constitution, including the question of which Second Chamber can and should deal with the second reading of a Constitutional proposal. There has been a lot of exchange of views between the Chamber and the government. The Council of State has also delivered the necessary opinions. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber has also given more clarity. This Constitutional proposal is there to ensure that there is clarity on all sides when the proposal is to be dealt with. It is nice to hear that this has given us a good follow-up to a careful examination of a constitutional proposal. Is the length of the parliamentary term sufficient to ensure that the second reading is done with care? I agree with Mr Sneller that it also asks a cabinet to react quickly if a note is to be drawn up in response to the report. That makes a large part of it whether or not a certain period is reached. Perhaps it is also good to say that after the start of a new parliamentary term in the Netherlands it is customary to conduct cabinet negotiations first. They can go fast, but usually take a little longer. That is a stage in which you can choose as a Chamber to deal with a constitutional proposal anyway. If it is politically controversial, there may be reasons not to, but that stage is there. If you do have a cabinet that falls quickly... that's not unthinkable. In 2002, I think it was a period of three months before the cabinet fell. Then you see that it often takes three months for new elections to be held. The minimum period you have is about eight months, I think: two or three months before there's a new cabinet, three months before a cabinet dies again and three months before you issue new elections. It asks a Chamber that is really willing to deal with a proposal and a cabinet that ensures that it also responds quickly. We can't do it without those two. So I am confident that we can achieve this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	I insist on this minister that the next cabinet formation lasts two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	I just want to raise the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	At the very minimum deadline, new elections will be held the day after the elections. So you always have three months to treat that. Of course, it would be very tragic if a House of Representatives wanted to kick ass, but a government, even if it was a missionary one, would not deliver. That situation is, of course, theoretical at best, but you have to think through it. Then what stick does this co-legislator have in hand to ensure that the government does respond at the stage of that written pre-consultation before we have the plenary debate here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	Of course, the Chamber always has different possibilities to call a minister to the Chamber and also to call for urgency, whether through a debate, an interplay debate or other possibilities. The Chamber can just call on a minister to do his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then I'd like to thank the Minister. I'll see if there's still a need for a second term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	We are also going to vote on this proposal next Tuesday. Then we start with the next proposal.
