ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	We continue with part two of treatment of the Socially Responsible Purchases Act Youth Act and Wmo 2015 (35816).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for his answer to the questions. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would very much like to begin by congratulating Mrs Sahla. What a beautiful maiden speech you have given, in which I think you have really spoken out of your heart about what you have been committed to for years in your ordinary life, outside this Chamber. Happy birthday. I wish you the best in your fine ministry. At the same time, I see it as a great privilege to be here to discuss this bill with you. I am, of course, committed to every child, particularly vulnerable children, families and the elderly. We have already talked about the Wmo and we are also going to talk about youth care, but today we are focusing specifically on the issue of the simplification of purchasing in the social domain in municipalities. What exactly do we do with that? We're actually doing three things in this bill, where I hope to make things even a little bit more accessible before you know who's watching this afternoon. The first thing we do is to delete the so-called EMFI criterion. This will enable us to achieve an easier, simpler way of contracting. Indeed, there is still a need to tender, but in this way there is much more room for dialogue and cooperation between municipalities and healthcare providers. The second thing we do is take into account that we can achieve real prices for purchasing youth care in the future. This will then have to be followed by an AMvB, which will be shared with your Room at a later date. This will enable us to determine much more carefully than hitherto what is actually a good price for which care. Thirdly, this bill makes it possible to impose due diligence requirements. At the moment, there is mainly self-regulation between municipalities. And they do so through the so-called Standard for Clientship. It is precisely because of the policy freedom of municipalities that we like to give this space. It also states that multi-annual contracts are important. However, if this NvO does not lead to sufficient change in practice, then this law will ultimately also allow us to regulate the due diligence requirements by means of a delegation clause, which is its technical side. But in the end it is all the law and the law is only practice when ultimately buyers from the municipalities organise it in a good and adequate way. This requires knowledge and skill. In this respect, too, I will give the municipality maximum support. Then I will move on to a number of blocks to finally give an appreciation of the amendments in my sixth block. First of all, I am going to say something about purchasing in general terms and in general terms. Since there have been many questions about it, I go into the open house constructions. Third, I'm gonna talk about the rates. Then I will deal with the monitoring and then I will answer the other questions. Finally, there is the appreciation of the amendments. First of all about procurement in a general sense, on which questions have been raised by various political groups. First of all, a question from Mrs Westerveld. Wouldn't it be better not to allow heavier care, such as youth protection, to run through a tendering procedure? First of all, I would like to say that the municipalities have no obligation to spend all these forms of care. For example, they can also choose the instrument of the grant. Mr. Hijink also gave a number of examples of what municipalities can do. In short, they can also opt for a different method. We are currently working from the Empire on the future of child and family protection. In the end, it is very important to reform the chain. In the end, we will have to answer the question as to which form of procurement is the most logical. Then Mrs Westerveld also asked whether suppliers in that enlightened regime would make an offer to municipalities, or whether municipalities would draw up the award criteria. We are going to deal with this enlightened regime as follows: no, there is no longer any award criteria for municipalities, but they are setting good minimum quality criteria and also more detailed selection criteria. On this basis, the best providers can ultimately be chosen. Mrs Westerveld also asked what exactly is being done with this bill for employees, for example for temporary contracts for employees linked to the temporary contracts the providers have with municipalities. I would like to say once again, as I indicated in my introduction, that I very much insist on long-term contracts with municipalities. This is also a starting point in the standard for clientship. I also see increasing numbers of municipalities opting for long-term contracts. So we can also make this even more legally through the third point in this law that I mentioned at last, if we adopt this law. Mr Hijink asked what is really going on with the home care worker and whether the client can actually count on the same care provider as another provider. He also asked whether something should not be arranged, for example in a hand-out. I would like to say that we have already dealt with this in the Wmo itself. Indeed, it already states that if there is a transfer of business, the new provider also takes over the staff of the old and that the client keeps as much as possible his own aid provider. In addition, this is also one of the due diligence requirements included in the VNG standard for clientship. Then there is a question from Mrs Maeijer on EU rules. That came back pretty broad, by the way. Why can't we make an exception now? One of the SP's amendments was on that too. At the moment, we are committed to obtaining maximum support from the Commission, from Parliament but also from the other Member States, in order to achieve an exemption from that procurement directive. But I also have to say, and to some extent dampen expectations, that there is little strong support at the moment for this to happen in the coming years. In the end, however, this will not affect the commitment of the cabinet and also of myself on this issue. And, of course, we will keep your Chamber as closely as possible in line with what we are already doing at EU level and also with how this procedure continues. Another question from the PVV about the administrative circus. Mrs Maeijer asked whether I actually have an insight into the obstructive rules and procedures and what we can delete from them during this cabinet period. For this I intend, like my predecessor, to introduce the model performance codes for young people and, what may be arranged here, an AMvB real price. And via the Ketenbureau we can finally take the step to standardize the execution variants in the choices that municipalities have. This will prevent the widening administrative burden area. Again, I encourage the municipalities to really opt for long-term contracts. Mrs Maeijer asked how this bill actually relates to the workload. In the end, isn't it going to increase the workload? The approach is the opposite: the workload should be reduced because of this proposal. That is what it is also aiming at: a lighter procurement regime, more clarity about prices and ultimately also due diligence requirements, which reduces administrative burden. We are actually going to do less work in setting up a whole bidding process, which leads to a lot of work and administrative burdens both on the supplier side and on the municipality side. At least the municipalities are given the opportunity to do so. Mrs Maeijer asked whether this would not be at the expense of the innovative providers or the small suppliers. Aren't they gonna disappear from the playing field, from the care landscape? I would like to say that I do not really have that concern, because still these small and very good providers can have the space to get a place in the care landscape. We're just deleting the extremely complicated purchasing process. Then there was a question from Mrs Van den Hil of the VVD. She asked whether the law actually gives control to the right care at the right time. I have to say that is not actually covered by this bill. Indeed, there is much more time available for good quality contract management to use the term "municipalities'. That gives room for much better conversation between the provider and the municipality, but eventually the municipality itself will have to think about what is actually the right care for and for whom it is needed. That is not what we are dealing with here, but perhaps in the future if it is useful or needs to be further developed. Mrs Van den Hil also asked whether this bill would mean that greater care, more complex care, would be given priority. The legislative proposal does indeed provide the tools to be more critical of procurement policy and therefore to better steer that heavier and more expensive care. It is precisely there that we saw, I would say, from our own experience that municipalities thought this was very expensive and were sending it to lower prices, while the complexity there is so high that the real prices probably show that it is not all possible for the prices that have been used so far. Mrs Van den Hil also had a question about the hand-out of the cabinet to municipalities. Can't municipalities support each other either? Does the VNG have a role in this? As I indicated in my introduction, there are indeed hand-outs available. There is also more and more exchange between municipalities about the ways in which you can do it best. The products that have been developed have been developed on the basis of the best practices we know today. So much for the first block about purchasing in general. I would then like to continue in the context of the procurement to the specific questions that have been asked about open house. I understand that you have questions about that, because I have some reservations about that myself. That is not new, because this too is a line that came from the previous cabinet and it remains. Let me start with Mrs Westerveld's question: what is the added value of open-house procedures? Can I make that clear again? Didn't it just lead to those high profits? I would first of all like to say that I also see that open house in too many places has led to an overload of suppliers who have been contracted. That's the first thing. But we must also be careful not to throw the child away with the bath water. Sometimes open house can be an administratively light choice if the municipality knows about who the providers are and if only a small number of providers want to enter into a contract. So there may be situations that I know of where buying through such an open-house construction does not lead to those huge numbers, but is a precise, light form of purchasing that is effective. Then there was another question about open house, namely: why don't I just choose to ban it completely? Mrs Westerveld's question was also in this line. Here I would like to emphasise that the Youth Act and the Wmo are decentralised legislation. In short, the municipalities have a role and a responsibility to choose for themselves which way of purchasing they consider right. If you ban open house and therefore take it completely out of the law, that is at very odd odds. You could even ask whether it is legally sustainable, precisely because it is a decentralised system. Then Mrs Sahla's question was why there was so clear the goal of reducing open house. So that's actually more about the other side of the open house discussion. I have already indicated that there may be circumstances where open house is desirable, wise and sensible. But we believe that this is the case in a very small number of cases and not in the numbers in which it has occurred over the past period. In short, therefore, the aim is explicitly to be cautious and to reduce the numbers. The one about open house, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to my next block about the rates. In addition, I am going to say something about profit. I shall start again with a question from Mrs Westerveld. It was also a question from the SP, from Mr. Hijink. Why don't I choose national rates? There is now a huge range of agencies in the process of setting these rates. Doesn't all that take too much time and money? I have to be cautious about this. I believe that national rates for the Youth Act are not the step forward we need. Why not? In fact, if you want to set a national rate, you also have to determine the forms of care nationwide. A tariff cannot be set without determining the form of care. And those forms of care are all about care close by. You don't want to go into detail and decide which forms of care there are and which rates are included. In short, it may be conceivable that you can arrange all these rates in one big sweep, but then you go so far in the principle of care in which the municipality, as the first government, best knows what type of care she wants where and where, that you have to be very reluctant about it. That's why I'm saying you shouldn't choose that nationwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	A question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	I do not find this story of the Secretary of State particularly convincing. He says: we now have a proliferation of all kinds of different providers and all kinds of different forms of care. We see on all sides that this leads to a lot of bureaucracy and an oversupply of all providers and forms of care, often questioning its effectiveness and its usefulness. Then it makes sense to see nationally what works well and what does not work well and to set one clear rate for it, so that everyone knows where he is going. Apart from the fact that you may not be able to make a different assessment in every municipality down to the smallest detail, does that ultimately make the big picture much clearer and much less bureaucratic? That argument has to be considered, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	That argument also certainly weighs heavily. That's exactly why we have the potential through that AMvB... Of course, that AMvB isn't there yet, but potentially we'll settle that in the future. We will say: we expect you to support more precisely what is actually a real rate. So that is actually what we find exactly the middle between not being so deeply involved in decentralised competence and at the same time wanting to implement a piece of standardisation. So I think it is the perfect middle between decentralisation on the one hand and some standardisation on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	And yet there are no more standards. In fact, the Secretary of State is actually going to complicate the complexity, the jungle that is already there for all kinds of different providers and forms of care, because every branch of the jungle will have to carry out a whole cost analysis. I think that the consultants in our country are looking at this debate, rubbing their hands, because they are already seeing future revenues flowing in. There will soon be endless discussions between the various youth care providers and Wmo providers, in order to arrive at a cost analysis with that municipality with cost elements. I remember it precisely from the discussion we had at the Wmo. It has become a proliferation of investigations and very expensive reports, because ultimately municipalities and providers have different interests. So it makes sense to organize that nationwide. Then you avoid the bureaucracy and then you also avoid the huge spending on expensive consultant investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'm not a fan of all kinds of expensive consultant studies that have to deal with all this. I recognize this. There has been too much talk of involving all kinds of agencies to organise this with each other. So I agree with you. There's no discussion about that. The question is whether this is necessarily necessary to meet the AMvB in a good way. I myself have experience with it as an alderman. I think there are other ways to find very good examples of it, without having to invest all that externally. In addition, I would like to mention another argument to be really reluctant with these national rates. I told you, you're gonna have to decide the form of care. If we want to stimulate innovation, we know that sometimes you do not have to say very precisely: this is this form of concern and that is this form of concern. You want to give some space to providers and municipalities to do what is necessary and not just do what is allowed within a particular form of care. Just that kind of innovation that you can also see and that takes place in some places in municipalities, I would really like to give the space. If we come up with these national tariffs, we will also remove that innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	The joke is that of course it doesn't necessarily have to go into the details; look at how it is organized in nursing care and in the Zvw, the Health Insurance Act. National rates are often set there too, but this is not done at all in detail. One nursing home isn't the other. They also work in different ways. They have a lot of space to decide what to do within that rate. I don't think it's gonna make sense what the Secretary of State says. He is setting up a very complicated circus here of new negotiations that will benefit the consultants in particular, while the alternative is exactly as we do in other areas of care. So I really want to press him once again to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	I fully agree with what Mr Hijink said. I understand very little of the Secretary of State's response. A number of functions, such as youth protection, youth rehabilitation, are not performed differently per municipality. These tasks are simply laid down nationwide. In my view, therefore, a national rate is desirable there. This also prevents consultants from taking considerable advantage of the rates that vary everywhere. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	I agree with Mrs Westerveld that there are a number of areas of care that are more similar. That's right, thank God. It has not become a total proliferation, because that would have made it much more administratively complicated. So no, it's true. However, I would also like to touch on the issue of innovation. You see precisely in the protection chain that when you make combinations of forms of care, in this case for the younger, the client, you often realize a greater innovation. Then you don't have to start recording exactly what one form of care is and what the other form of care is. Just by making very smart combinations, you sometimes create a new form of care that is often very effective. If we are going to determine exactly what these forms of care are, what performance they are, that is actually what we are doing then, and at the same time what rates are attached to them, then we are going to stop that innovation. This innovation is needed in the field, by providers and by municipalities to deal with the major problems that exist in youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	However, I think this is a shift of arguments. The initial argument was that municipalities have policy freedom and therefore municipalities decide what to do with the different rates. Mr Hijink rightly points out that this creates a proliferation of different consultancies and a great deal of administration around them. Now the Secretary of State comes up with the argument that we need to look at innovation. But you don't need different rates everywhere. That's why you can just agree on a national rate. That's clear to everyone. Of course, organisations can still differentiate in their own pay house. That's not the point at all here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	It's not a shift of arguments, but it's layered. First of all, I say that if you're going to have to determine the benefits, you won't get away with it if you're going to set national rates, then you're going to go into the decentralised jurisdiction of municipalities. That's one. The second thing we are talking about is that you could also touch on the innovation that is needed. Those are the two things. Firstly, I said that I think I am keeping the right balance between decentralised and standardisation. And the second is that I think that this is a service to innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mrs Westerveld about the standardization of top incomes. Is it now possible to apply a lower ceiling under the Standards Act? I must honestly say that we do not know exactly whether this could be done, because it is actually a legal question. I would like to ask the President if I can come back to that. That could be done in the second term, but it could be done very well on paper. This must be legally possible or not. I'll get back to you on that. If I don't do that in the second term, I'll do it on paper at a later date. Then Mr. Hijink. We were talking very briefly about the expensive agencies that are being hired. I told you, I recognize it. By the way, I also believe that we should be careful about this and that it should indeed be less. But I cannot tell you what amount has been or is being spent on it. I don't have that vision. That was your specific question. Then there was a question from Mrs Werner about the real prices: does this apply to the sub-providers rather than just to the main provider, the main contractor? It is my intention to extend the real prices to subcontractors in the AMvB. We will have to deal with this in the end. This means that the main contractor must also reflect the costs of the subcontractor, i.e. the cost elements of the AMvB, and, of course, pay a real price. I would like to assure you that I will return to that in the development of the AMvB. Mr. Hijink asked him to use a rather curious phrase, I believe: how is it that you are going to impose real rates and that does not have any financial effects? I think we really need to keep that line together. That is not opportunistic in the sense of: all this will remain exactly the same. It's not opportunism. That's what I see and those are the experiences I have. Indeed, the AMvB will have the effect of giving many municipalities much better insight into and insight into the price structure. So that can really be an instrument for municipalities on the basis of which they can make much better price agreements. I can give you examples of municipalities that said afterwards: boy, that might have been too high a rate for this form of care. There are also municipalities that have said: boy, that was a far too low rate when we see what has been needed for that. In short, there are effects, both positive and negative, through the understanding of price building. That is why we are conducting an investigation into the impact in practice to know what the actual impact is. But in general, I do not expect the AMvB to have a price-raising effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	Of course it could be. Only, my point was that the Secretary of State could say better: we do not know what the financial consequences will be of this bill or of the AMvB if it is introduced later. That would be fairer than saying that there will be no financial consequences. What the Secretary of State says is true: maybe municipalities in some places are paying way too much for all kinds of bullshit. That could happen. We also know that there are too low rates in some places, so that organisations do not come out at all. It can go both ways, so the honest story the Secretary of State has to tell is: we don't know what the consequences are. That is different from what he is saying now, namely that the consequences will be zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	I would like to go along with Mr Hijink. I cannot say that with exact science I have calculated exactly that this is indeed going to have no effect. I would like to go along with Mr Hijink in the sense that it is true that we do not know until the last decimal point whether it ultimately leads to a plus or a minus on the macro budget. Only, we have an estimate, an expectation, based on what we see and based on previous experiences, for example at the Wmo. The assessment we make on this basis is that there is no price increase effect. But we're doing that research to eventually measure the impact. Mrs Bikker had a question about the AMvB real price in the Wmo. She said: I think it would be a good idea to measure where we stand two years after the review in 2020. Following the evaluation, a structural consultation with the domes and the VNG was organised. That is where the bottlenecks can be discussed, but that also means that, yes, I have to say, although it sounds like a market, whatever it is sometimes, the calculation tools are worked out to finally determine what good, real prices are. The table meets periodically to see how things are going. During the last period, no additional bottlenecks were raised at this table in the functioning of the AMvB. At least they're not on the agenda. So maybe they're there, but then they didn't come to this table on the table, which should be. That's why, given the signals I'm getting right now, I don't think there's any need for a new evaluation. We are trying to limit what we are all researching, after all. Mrs Bikker asked: a cost-covering price is an important precondition, but for whom is it actually a cost-covering price? She asked if we are not going to get into an inefficient overhead business and how I look at it. Cost-covering actually has a pretty literal meaning. It means that the real price must in any case cover the costs normally incurred by providers. Therefore, this does not mean that a municipality has to cover all supplied cost elements blindly by all providers. Suppose a provider raises a high or very high absenteeism. Then the municipality can discuss this, especially if it turns out that absenteeism in other providers is much lower. This also applies to high overhead rates or travel costs. If there is then no plausible explanation for these high types of costs, then the municipality does not have to reimburse them either. But then the municipality will have to determine what is a real price.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	I'm almost touched. No, I'm not. Thank you for this answer. In that I listen that a municipality may indeed set a standard price, including with regard to the overhead, for example. At the same time, a municipality sometimes sits with its hands in it when a large provider says: we just have 40% overhead; you may think that it should be 30% or 20%, but we have 40%. What else can a council do? What does the Secretary of State have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	In that case, the municipalities with these cost elements really have something to say: best provider, we find that an overhead of an x-percentage for the forms of care you offer is the most real, so we compensate that part of the overhead on the total of the rate, not the vast majority. The municipality is ultimately the buyer and not the healthcare provider. The healthcare provider can indeed choose to provide care for the rate set by the municipality or the provider can say: I am going to the neighbors, to another municipality that does opt for that high overhead rate. Only then, I hope that the neighbors in that municipality have also agreed with each other on what they think is about real and that they learn from each other about real price building. The municipalities themselves therefore have a determining effect in what they consider to be a real price. They can tell providers: it's this or nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	I also hope that the municipalities will be in touch, for example in a region, so that they can learn from each other. At the same time, I get signals from large municipalities which can really put some weight in the way of such a healthcare provider that it is still difficult to be normal on this point, especially when you are dealing with a large ggz institution, for example, and you know that they are not in the best financial weather there. There's a lot of worry about that. The Secretary of State has just said that he has a consultation moment following the earlier evaluation. I would ask him to take this particular point into account and to check with municipalities whether the law is satisfactory. Can we really achieve this standard or do we need other things to prevent inefficiency from being paid by the taxpayer in the end? Then I'm talking about having too many properties and a lot of managers, when we all want the money to go to the help. We know that most organisations work in this way, but unfortunately that is not yet the case for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	Clear. I'm gonna take it with me in the consultation table I have on this. In this respect, we are, of course, a little further on at the Wmo than at the Youth Act. I am going to ask whether this also gives sufficient grip to larger suppliers on that table. If large providers offer something that is not an alternative in a large part of the care landscape, it is complicated to adopt that assertive attitude. We're gonna go see if there's anything else we need. I will tighten up the consultation with the providers on this point to see if it provides sufficient guidance for them. In fact, Mrs Bikker asked the same question: what added value does the AMvB have if it does not help the institutions sufficiently? I think I've already responded to that. I take it with me in the tightening up of the talks with the municipalities in this area. Mrs Sahla asked: how does this bill actually relate to the law on sound business management of healthcare providers? The legislative proposal now before us focuses primarily on the areas of social support and the areas of youth care. The proposal for an Integrity Business Care Providers, the Wibz, has two objectives. The first objective is to better ensure the integrity of the management of healthcare providers by tightening the public-law framework conditions. The second objective is to provide external supervision with additional tools to deal with non-intelligent business operations, for example where there is a conflict of interest. People who want to work with wrong intentions within the care should therefore also be able to be prevented. My intention is to extend the Wibz to providers in the youth care sector. That's basically the exchange here. The Wibz does not apply to Wmo providers. This is also mentioned earlier in a letter to your Chamber in February 2020. At the moment there is still talk of a bridge to my next subject.. decentralised supervision within the Wmo. Mr. Chairman. I told you, I'm going to my third block, about supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	But first, Mrs. Sahla.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	Before the Secretary of State continues: we had also asked for a good comparison of the regulatory burden between the open house procedure and the illuminated procurement regime. I do not think we have yet received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	I think I'll get back to that in my other block. If the question is not included, then I will return to it at another time, in the second term or in another way. But I think I'll get back to you in a minute. The surveillance. The SP and CDA groups have requested this. Should the IGJ oversee the Wmo and the youth domain? And what are we going to do to get control of order at all? First of all, I would like to include the youth domain in the answer to that question. I can, of course, say that the IGJ already monitors the quality and safety of the youth domain. Then the Wmo. In my outline letter, to which Mrs Werner referred, I indicated that, with the involvement of the VNG, the municipalities, local and regional WMO supervisors, the GGD, the IGJ and the Monitoring Social Domain, I am working on the joint ambition to better implement WMO supervision. In short, we see that in this full range of parties something really needs to be done to change supervision. In this process we look at various options how to strengthen the Wmo monitoring and, in my view, should be strengthened. But we also need to look at what is acceptable to all parties involved. The option that you yourself put forward here, namely how the IGJ can play a role in this, I am involved in the discussions on this in the wide range of parties I have mentioned to you. For this year's summer recess, I will finally inform you about the results of that conversation and about the follow-up. That was the question of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Hijink just a moment longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	A report from the Court of Auditors on the total failure of the fight against care fraud has been published this afternoon, which is currently under way. It is an unprecedentedly critical report by the Court of Auditors on the fight against fraud. The Court of Auditors also points to the fragmentation of care. There are many different funding flows: the municipality, the health insurance company, the health care office. These are all different supervisors, but no one has the exact picture yet and is doing something about the fight against fraud. In my view, the law we are discussing is also concerned with this, because municipalities should actually control themselves, they do not have an inspection, IGJ, and often they do not have a good view of exactly which providers are actually active in their own municipality. That is why my question: is it not even time to improve not only the supervision but also the reporting obligation proposed by the SP today, so that, even if you do not have a contract with a particular provider, you know that a particular provider is active in your municipality and comes across the floor with your own citizens to provide care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	I will come back to the obligation to report, because in the very last part of the first period I would like to welcome your amendment. So that's where I'd like to park it, if that's okay with you. As far as supervision is concerned, I note with you that there is indeed a need for an improvement. This applies not only to the field of care fraud but also to the domain of quality and the great differences in quality that you sometimes see. It also has to do with the question of whether it is actually arranged in a good way, even if you look at the roles that exist, where it is invested within the municipality itself rather than wanting it to be organized a bit more externally. In short, there are many aspects that need to be better regulated. It is also my ambition; it is a broad ambition that is shared. Only, how exactly does that have to be designed, we have not yet figured that out. I'll come to you for the summer with an image of what that might look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	Just on a day like today, when we deal with this kind of legislation, we need to talk about this type of issue. The Court of Auditors says that not a few million, no, billions, several billions a year, loses society to care fraud. This is because supervision is inadequate but also because the system is so intensely complicated that it is just very easy to make money in healthcare. I have mentioned the examples: in the case of protected living in municipal care and in the case of youth care, it is easy to make money, and in other places in care too it is too easy. That's because it's so complicated and because the cabinet doesn't want to cooperate in facilitating supervision and also not the supervisory authority I'd like to put it back in the law, so that you at least have a view of who works in your municipality and, if there's something going on, for example in another municipality, you get a signal from: hey, pay attention, it also does something in your municipality, take it on, make sure you get money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	I would nevertheless like to combat the idea that the cabinet would not want to cooperate in tackling care fraud or waste in healthcare. It's the opposite, I'd like to say. This is part of making the decentralised care domain manageable. So I'm sure of it. I just want to make it clear that supervision is only about care fraud. This is also about quality and about differences in quality. So it's about more things than care fraud. That's one. The second thing I would like to say is: yes, we will take your concerns with us and we will come back to that before the summer to see how that monitoring could be completed. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to my block with other questions. I will start with Mrs Westerveld's question as to what is actually going on with the reform agenda and whether we are still working on it. Yes, of course we'll see what we can do, even at the moment, when municipalities aren't sitting at the table, as you know. We'll see what we can do, of course. Today's bill, of course, also covers part of the Youth Act. That's what we're gonna do. I will, of course, come back to you later on how we proceed with the approach of youth care. Then the message Our youth deserves better. You asked me to respond to the providers, the client organisations and the professionals, who themselves initiated the reform agenda. I am actually glad that they themselves are now drawing up a sketch and putting a perspective on how they think youth care should be reformed. So I have seen with interest and interest the perspective they are laying down. In the end, hopefully, we will continue to talk about these structural reforms in the foreseeable future. It is now equally ripe and green, Mr President, because now I am going back to a very specific subject, namely the expertise that needs to be preserved in, among other things, specialist centres. It was said that this should not depend on municipalities. I do believe that a national scale of organisation is appropriate for a small part of the forms of care. There is also a nationwide transition arrangement in which the municipalities have agreed on the contracting of the most specialised youth aid. But the Committee of Wise Men, which you of course know as no other, has recommended that we look into this and, if necessary, extend this section. That's the rural part. Then, of course, we also have the upper regional part and the regional part. We will have to look into that in order to ensure that that expertise is maintained. In short, this is actually an issue that we need to go further in the reform of youth care and the package that goes with it. Then Mr Hijink asked how this bill relates... I see Mrs Westerveld has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	In my opinion, the Secretary of State sees the problems with national expertise, which must be preserved in particular. But he says, "We're gonna take a closer look at that." In itself, that is an understandable answer. At the same time, the impatience with me of course begins to come...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	Me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	...and several people, including the Secretary of State. I also have concerns about the national expertise, because I get back from some of these centres that they are now dependent on the different municipalities. That creates uncertainty in their financial position. That creates a lot of bureaucracy, because they have to make agreements with each municipality individually. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: what can we do in the short term to ensure that these centres have certainty, that there is certainty about survival? I would also like to ask him if he agrees with me that it is also a responsibility of the Secretary of State and of all of us to ensure that this expertise is preserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	I said it very briefly: I share that impatience. Reforms in the youth care sector will have to get really upset in the coming period. In fact, this is one of the subjects where we also need to better regulate the availability of care, of very complex specialist care, by organising it in a different way. This is also really an issue that belongs in the broader reform of youth care. That's what I stand for. I am also going to do everything I can to make this reform work. In the meantime, of course, we are also looking at the Youth Authority itself, of course, with its own role in this area, how we can prevent this from leading to the disruption of providers and to the already leaking of that expertise. So we are now looking at what is to be done. Moreover, I recognize that there are sometimes urgent questions. That could be waiting lists, for example. So these are just urgent questions for young people. But it can also be about the business perspective to prevent providers from being able to continue with the expertise they have. These urgent questions must also be dealt with as urgent questions. So we should not turn that into a whole legislative process or a whole new or changed procurement process. We simply need to take care of this as well as possible, and we also need to deal with it very precisely, by the way, with the observation that everyone should remain in their role and that everyone should not look at each other. You have an independent responsibility in this, but those bigger questions about the structure should not be dealt with on the basis of an incident but on the basis of a vision of the implementation. It really comes with the reform agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	With all due respect to this Secretary of State, because he can't do much about it, I'm a little tired of the answer 'that comes with the reform agenda'. For many years, we have been constantly associated, not only with this Secretary of State but also with the predecessor of this Secretary of State and with the predecessor of the predecessor of this Secretary of State, that matters are put forward and that they will come later. I would like to ask the very specific question whether it is possible, for example, to make agreements with the VNG on national centres of expertise, such as a centre such as Fier. This has expertise in issues of exploitation and sexual abuse and has an incredibly complex funding structure at the back. Shouldn't the Secretary of State and the UNG simply say to each other: we think it is so important that this centre is maintained that we simply agree together so that they can save a lot of bureaucracy and have certainty about their survival in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	Again, I share your impatience; no discussion whatsoever. I too believe that we should not push this forward beyond what is really necessary. So I am also prepared to do what we can, even as soon as possible. So I share this impatience with you, and I share with you that we should not wait endlessly. At the same time, there is, of course, also the rural transition arrangement at the moment. This also offers some opportunity to contract, in a number of areas, nationwide, from, in this case, in particular, specialist youth aid. So that's what's already there. At the same time, we are looking at what is needed in relation to those most pressing questions. For example, I have informed you about the handling of the waiting lists and the resources made available for them in the past period, which should eventually lead to a step-by-step reduction. And then I would like to make a triple: yes, in the end we will have to better regulate the structure. That really needs to go into the reform agenda. That's not something you do for a year. As far as I'm concerned, you're really doing that for the years to come, maybe for the next five to ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask a third question, because this is a relevant point, including with regard to procurement. It is really crazy that specialist centres, which we all think should be kept and preserved, sit at the back with such an incredibly complicated bureaucratic mill to rake in money. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me, looking at the future, that we should go to a system where a number of centres simply need to be regulated nationwide, because we feel that they are nationwide of added value and therefore serve young people from different municipalities and that funding should therefore not be dependent on contracts concluded with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	I'm not gonna guarantee it. So I still have to have that restraint, but I have read very carefully what the Committee of Wise Men has written about this. It actually says to all parties very clearly: look very closely at this; there will most likely have to be a larger part to the rural and the upper regional part than so far. So yes, that is the approach and the vision with which I look at the issue. In the end, I do not want to impose anything like a dictation from The Hague. So we need to continue the discussion with the sector about how this can be done and then not lead to any disruption again. Because it can also happen that with good intentions we eventually organise extra continuity. Once again, I have heard the Committee of Wise Men very well. She says: look critically at this; this should be extended. That's also the vision I'm using. Mr Hijink actually asked for a sidetrack on the same subject. He asked: what about the potential democratic deficit if you buy more above-regional, regional or national, because then the city council is very much behind? I would like to say that, first of all, there is a real need to take a step. In view of the Committee of Wise Men and the questions raised by Mrs Westerveld, I think we should look that way. Democratic control can still be secured very well in there. The municipal councils and local democracy have different possibilities for this. I would not like to mention, last but not least, the Law on common rules in which the municipalities can organise this democratically with each other. Then I come to a question from Mrs Maeijer. The approach is that a municipality with a smaller number of providers works, but of good quality. She asks: how does the Secretary of State ensure that the waiting lists do not increase further? I would like to give the very simple answer that fewer providers do not necessarily mean fewer places or fewer offers, but I hope that there will be a more targeted offer and appropriate care. Then I come to another question from Mrs Maeijer, namely whether there is standardisation of ICT in youth aid. Youth aid providers come from different parts of the care. This is reflected in the use of ICT systems. So at the moment you can say that there are still quite a few differences and diversity. Working with messaging forces standardisation of ICT systems. Compliance with the same standards has helped to streamline things in recent years. The essence of the guidance on how to control ICT in healthcare is therefore: set these standards well, but do not prescribe the system. That's the way we keep looking at it. Then I come to Mrs Sahla's question earlier, namely: what about the quantitative analysis on control pressure and how will it be evaluated? The difficulty of this is that it is complicated to measure administrative burdens objectively. That is why we are also talking about 'experienced regulatory pressure'. For youth support this was done in 2019 by a survey at SKJ for professionals. From this the rather important signal emerged that 88% of professionals experienced avoidable administrative burdens. That's quite a few! The experienced administrative burden depends, among other things, on what was used to the Wmo and the Youth Act, on the context in which they work and also on the choices made by providers themselves. Finally, I would like to address a question from Mrs Werner on the settlement of disputes. It's April now. Before 1 December last year it would be decided which types of disputes could be brought before the Disputes Committee and how the youth dispute settlement system would be organised. What does that actually look like, I think, was her question. Recently, together with the sector and the field parties, we have worked very hard on a regulation for independent dispute resolution for youth and the Wmo. The VNG and the trade associations have submitted this regulation to their supporters for consultation. On this basis, the field parties now identify the substantive issues. One strives for a determination, agreement, for the summer. Mr. Chairman. Then I shall go to the appreciation of the amendments. First of all, the amendment on item No. 8. Then I assume that that is also the amendment that you have in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	That was first of all the amendment to item No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	Yes, which used to be the amendment in part No. 7 was. That is the amendment of the procurement law so that services in the social domain no longer need to be tendered at European level. Although I have a great understanding of the enormous burden that comes with contracting, I myself, as an alderman, have unfortunately run into the barriers several times and I can fully share that frustration, at the same time I have to say with considerable certainty that I really must advise against this amendment. There is now, however you turn or turn, a real contradiction between this amendment and the European Procurement Directive. Mr. Hijink had indeed said himself that I would give this answer. Indeed, I have no choice but to give this answer. In short, it could even lead to delays and additional administrative burdens, because it leads to court proceedings, and eventually even leads to contracts and purchases being declared invalid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	It is, of course, more about the principle of how far you still have to go with the procurement of youth services and WMO care, when everyone, including in Europe, in Brussels, says that it is really nonsense that we do so in this way. Everyone understands that youth care is not a European market with Portuguese and Polish providers. So we're all here to maintain something. That is why I tabled this amendment, namely that you should simply do it as a matter of principle and then provoke the debate with Brussels and see what happens there. I think that is the right thing to do and that we are doing a service to municipalities in the meantime. My gut feeling is that they will not stand out at all in Brussels and that we can open up a discussion, not only in the Netherlands but also in our neighbouring countries, about the fact that we have to stop this nonsense of contracting in municipal care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	It is an argument which I would like to comment on in many ways. First of all, I have a very specific comment. You say that you would like to provoke a discussion with the European Commission and that we will see where they stand, but we are talking here about legislation and how municipalities ultimately interpret this legislation into regulation and procurement. Then we may be able to provoke a discussion, but we will eventually see whether procurement has been legitimate or not. So then we may have a very interesting discussion with the European Commission, but we simply cannot avoid existing European legislation if then a line is simply drawn by purchasing because the judge says: all is well and well, but you cannot do so if not, Municipality X, Y or Z. In short, it can even lead to additional administrative burdens, because it will, of course, lead to legal discussions. But it can even lead to, for example, a penalty payment or fines. In short, I cannot help but dissuade this amendment, although I understand you very well. I recognize the discussion about procurement very much and I have also asked myself as alderman: can I please get rid of this? Then the answer, however hard it may be, is no, not at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	The Secretary of State is now throwing a lot of bears on the road: threats, fines and everything. There is a directive, but at the end of the day, we ourselves determine the legislation and the way in which it leads to Dutch legislation. Legislation that we make here; we can also adapt it and municipalities have to comply with the Dutch law. That is why we made that amendment. Procurement out, and let the municipalities organise it in a different way well and in cooperation. Then they comply with the law and we make that law here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think it is a repeat of the discussion, so I would like to stick to my previous answers. Then there is the amendment to item No. 10 on the distribution of profits in the Youth Act and the Wmo. What is the state of play on this subject? In any case, I recognise the risk that profit-realisation will be given greater importance than the quality of care, which is extremely undesirable. Of course, it is also undesirable for this to happen. So I am also working along two tracks that help municipalities to get a better grip on these excessive profit payments in particular. First of all, of course, there is the AMvB about the real price to help achieve good contracting. Secondly, in the contracts and even in the regulations, municipalities can include cross-compliance and tough criteria to limit profits. But I believe with you that these two tracks may not be enough. I would first like to see whether this leads to sufficient understanding among municipalities. If that is not the case, I believe that we may also need to take further steps to resolve or limit this problem further. Then we might indeed have to take further steps. I would ask you to hold on to the amendment and first to see whether these steps we are now taking will ultimately lead to results. If that is not enough for you, because we are now using these two tracks, I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	The Secretary of State is asking for an amendment to be retained. That sounds like something I can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	No, you can't. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	I cannot help but dissuade the amendment. Then that's the simple situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr Hijink might withdraw it, but I do not feel that he is going to do so. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	I do not understand the Secretary of State's reasoning, because just now, in an interrupting debate when I said, with all due respect to this Secretary of State, that the reform agenda is being pushed forward all the time, I heard him say 'yes, I am impatient too'. Now Mr Hijink is tabling some very good amendments to this law, and I do not hear a substantive argument to vote against it, but above all a procedural argument. That's why I don't understand. An amendment is either a good idea, and then we have to be in favour of it, or it is not a good idea, and then there can be substantive reasons for it, but I say "it's going a little too fast," I contradict the words of the Secretary of State just ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	I know the impatience very well. It's just, it's not like nothing's been done. There are now also municipalities which, precisely because of this, take steps in their regulations. It has also happened that municipalities have not always been able to show exactly what a good price was for the form of care they have purchased. In short, in the meantime, efforts are being made to limit these excessive profits. I also do not want to continue to obstruct the choices made by municipalities with dictations under legislation. I'd like to give some room for that, too. So that's why I'm saying, help me carry on with those two tracks. Then we can always say, although it is not technically possible at this point, that these two tracks lead to insufficient results and we will also have to step up our action. Also, give municipalities what they do in adapting local regulations, space and time, exactly what we already regulate in this bill, in order to ultimately limit those excessive profit distributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	I believe that the frustration about excessive profit distributions has been widely shared in the Chamber, and for years too. The solutions differ a bit. We have also seen some own-initiative legislation, at least as a senator I have, which also took a very long time and is still somewhere. I can also see that this technical legislative proposal suddenly comes as an additional element because it is also a frustration that I think is alive and well. I am not dealing with Mr Hijink's amendment. But I do know that this cabinet is motivated to tackle excessive benefits in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	But, frankly, I do not have a clear idea of how the cabinet is going to follow up on this. This is also broader than that of this Secretary of State, because it also plays in the ggz, for example, with Minister Helder. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to tell the Chamber on this very point how further this is being followed up, because I think that our joint mission, that public money does not go into profit distributions, is broadly shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	Definitely. I also think, as I may have pointed out a little bit to Mr Hijink, that it might well be possible for us to move towards a next step. I can imagine that very well. Let us be very honest about it, it is also legislation that has been going on for a while. We can see that this problem has also increased in those years. We have put forward a number of leads, but I can imagine that in the coming period I do not mean the coming years, but the coming years, in which we are going to talk again, in particular about structural reforms in youth care, we should have this subject on the table again and we should also take a bigger step. That is why I said, but that is the technical side of the matter: stick to that idea now, rather than the amendment, and then we are going to talk about it more broadly. I can well imagine that we need to take a bigger step in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	But once again, an amendment cannot be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	No, I can't. I got it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mainly, you have to keep expressing a lot of ideas, I think. I have a feeling that it is complicated with this legislative proposal, even though, in order to express it less parliamentaryly and somewhat domestically, I have a great deal to say about these excessive profits. So I'm looking. The Secretary of State wants to take good steps, but when are we going to talk about this as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	Then let me just be very precise. I promised you that, for the debate on youth care in May, I would send you a main letter on how to deal with youth in the coming period. That's in over a month and a half, that order size. In that letter I come back specifically to this subject to see what further steps we need and should also take. Moreover, it could well be that legislation is needed for this. I will come back specifically to what we think is a good place and a good way to solve this really rotten problem further. Is that parliamentary practice, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yes, that's 100% parliamentary use. I should like to point out that the amendment to item No. 10 is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	I've already sensed that a little bit. Then we have the amendment to item No. Nine more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	I have here the amendment to item No. 2 and the amendment to item No. 4. I do not have an amendment on item No. 9. I have four amendments, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	We have 8, 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Look at this!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	That's very mysterious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	Pampam. Let's take a look, because the subject might as well make sense. I have an amendment on reporting obligations and one on multiannual contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	The multi-annual contracts concern the amendment to item No. 9. The notification requirement concerns the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	Then we're gonna change that right away. We'll start with the multi-annual contracts. Here, too, I think I can do quite a bit to accommodate the SP, but I must, in the end, advise against the amendment. Well, that's always annoying, isn't it? I'll come back to the introduction I gave. In the standard for clientship we now indeed regulate that municipalities eventually grow towards multi-annual contracts. They have, in part, dealt with this more and more often. Also in the round I have made over the past few weeks and months, I really see that more and more municipalities are on this trend. This trend has already been used several times. In short, it is indeed very good to go for these multi-annual contracts. Again, in the standard for clientship we also arrange this. That's important, too. There is self-regulation, but this legislative proposal will ultimately also be able to regulate it legally. In the end it may also be necessary to take the step to regulate legally what might not be reflected in self-regulation. Then the form is important, because if you were to regulate it now in the law, you would then have to organise exceptions afterwards. In fact, it is much more sensible to choose the track that we are now choosing with this legislation, namely by regulating it in the standard for commissioning. If this leads to insufficient results, it can ultimately lead to legal safeguards. Then we also know that exceptions are possible, as opposed to the track from above, where you regulate it in the law and then have to apply exceptions afterwards. That is why I must also advise against this amendment. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 11 on the obligation to notify subcontractors. In this area, too, there is restraint on my part. The SP's proposal to impose a reporting obligation on subcontractors is something that I can well imagine is necessary if there is indeed a proliferation of................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is precisely the art of local purchasing that you organise and regulate things in it with regard to subcontracting rather than trying to regulate that through law with a reporting obligation. Then you have a duty to report, but yes, what does it have for effect and result? In fact, it could lead to additional burdens in this case. We were just talking about 88% experienced load pressure. A subcontractor who does so because he happens to help one child in a particular place in a municipality and also provides good care for that, must also agree with the municipality before he can provide that care. What would I want to do? Because here too, as with the other amendments, I recognize where this comes from. I also recognize that we have to go on that trail. In any case, I can assure Mr Hijink that in the procurement hand-out we make for municipalities, we will give a number of clues and a precision ring on how they can properly make subcontracting possible and how they can prevent a proliferation of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	The reason for tabling this amendment is precisely to try to bring a little bit more into line with the chaotic way in which this cabinet and previous cabinets are setting up our healthcare system. A few years ago, we dealt with the Act of Accession of Healthcare Providers, the Wtza. It regulates the obligation to report in long-term care and medical care, including for subcontractors, in order to prevent healthcare providers from disappearing from the radar and so you have no idea exactly who is active in the various sectors of care. My fear is that, precisely as a result of this bill, fewer providers and fewer parties will conclude a contract with the municipality, but that the municipality will not know who is still active within the municipality. The Secretary of State gives one stupid example of a child care provider who has to report to one child immediately. Yes, in that case it is, but it is a rather hypothetical example; the Secretary of State himself knows that. In most cases, a provider will provide care to a larger number of people in a municipality. It's a little silly to say something about one child or one client. Of course, it's gonna happen occasionally. But in general it seems to me very sensible that every municipality and every alderman knows: these organizations are active in my municipality. I think that's also necessary if you want to supervise properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	Yeah, sure. You're now raising it to an abstraction level. You are actually asking: how do we prevent us from getting more sub-providers in the case of fewer suppliers or less "main contractors'? I recognise that problem and I want to prevent it from happening. The question then is: what instrument do we have in the bag to prevent this problem from arising? I think local authorities in local purchasing can give very good guidance on this. You can do this perfectly locally. But municipalities do not always have the handles and the details of how this can be designed. I recognize the problem you're describing. That is why I agree that through these hand-outs and through the help we offer to municipalities to do the best they can, we are going to offer inspiration, opportunities and tools to avoid this problem, which you are warning us about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	Fine, that seems clear to me. Can we go to the second term? Very briefly, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	What strikes me every time is that the Secretary of State says: we have to leave the municipalities how they're going to do it. Then I think: what's wrong with taking care of this country in a tight way, so that you know from every municipality that they're going to get that overview? Now we are again dependent on how this happens in the different municipalities. And read today's Court of Auditors' report: it is too much of a mess in many places. So then it's just very wise to arrange that in some areas tight and well, without interfering with the content of the care. I just don't see the objection. I think that the Secretary of State is stepping on the brakes unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	It's possible. I don't think I want to do that. I just want to respect that this is a decentralised policy, both under the WMO and under the Youth Act. We are trying to give direction to this more than we have done so far, but we cannot simply overthrow the decentralized nature of this Parliament, not even in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	Clear. I therefore note that the amendment to item No. 11 has also been dissuaded. Very good, so much for the first term. Do I understand the need for a five-minute suspension? I'd rather just keep going. We're just gonna get started and we'll find out who's gonna hook up. Okay, so the second term. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mr President, for managing this debate. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. I have an open question about the award criteria. My question in the first term was: if these award criteria were to be abolished, would the municipality, after negotiations with different providers, make an offer, which suppliers then choose or not to choose? Or does it turn out to be the other way around, namely that providers make an offer to municipalities? That is a relevant question, because it is about interpretation to the law. Mr. Chairman. Agreements are now concluded after offer and acceptance. But who will do the offer after this law has been introduced and who will accept it? If suppliers still have to make an offer, how can the municipality still accept offers without award criteria? I would like a very clear answer from the Secretary of State in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about the remuneration of directors and supervisors. Once again, I know that the Secretary of State is coming up with a response. So if there is a generous commitment, I will, of course, withdraw the motion. I'll read the motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a gap between the remuneration of directors and supervisors and the remuneration of youth workers in the workplace;]] [[noting that at a time of financial deficits the debt ratio is certainly undesirable that the directors and supervisors in the youth care sector should be at the top of the Standards Act;]] [[calls on the Government to allow municipalities to make additional agreements on the remuneration of directors and supervisors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are a number of specialised centres with a national function;]] [[noting that these centres have to make individual contracts with municipalities and that this leads to an increase in bureaucracy and an uncertain financial position;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to agree with the VNG on the maintenance of these centres of expertise with a national function,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one comment to make on Mr Hijink's amendments. I think it is very good that a Member of Parliament is not only looking at the own assessment of the law, but also at how we can improve that law. I cannot reconcile it with the impatience the Secretary of State has to really improve the system. We all know this is necessary. Each time evaluations and inspection reports show that the system is not well organised. Who is responsible for this? That's us, along with the Secretary of State. I do not understand, then, that the Secretary of State says of a number of amendments which improve the system: first we have to look at how the current law is working out. I would like to say to the Secretary of State: it has been too long; let us now speed up the improvement of youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	Very good. Mrs Maeijer from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there have been a number of questions left. How many municipalities are now going to make use of this simplified procedure? Can the Secretary of State give concrete examples when the open house procedure, which he does not consider desirable but which he does not want to prohibit, is desirable for more complex forms of care? That is not entirely clear to me. Let me now turn to my final question on administrative burdens. When can the Chamber see the model performance codes for youth? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to mention the European Procurement Directive. I simply think that the Secretary of State should say in Brussels: "We are not doing it anymore. We exclude the purchase of youth and social support, because it does not work for us." To give him a little support for that, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to state in Brussels that the Netherlands directly excludes the procurement of youth care and social support from the European Public Procurement Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	Very good. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In debates with the government, and certainly with other parties, we always hear the discussion about the level of healthcare costs, about how things are getting out of hand and how we should put the brakes on them. Then we have to get things out of the basic package again or we have to cut back on nursing care. The quality of care must always be saved and cut. If it is now about how we can save on care in a smarter way, then the cabinet closes all the doors, and that is not the first time. We've seen that before. See today that report from the General Court. This shows that every year billions, billions of care money are lost to outright fraud, to backdoor cleverness that handy boys have found to pull money out of our care. This is happening in the municipalities, in the youth care sector, and this is happening in long-term care. That happens in all kinds of places in the care. We have been trying every debate ever since the SP was in this Chamber to close commercial loopholes like that to make money. Every time we run into the unwillingness of successive Cabinets to do something about it. That's what we've seen at the Wtza, and that's what we're seeing today. We see that the cabinet is not open to simple ways of preventing profits, competition and the removal of money from care. That's not only very disappointing, but it's also an embarrassment to me. We must deliver good legislation here. We need to ensure that people who pay premium money, who pay tax money, can count on us to do everything we can to ensure that that money goes well, but unfortunately this is not often the case. The money ends up in the hands of bad guys who take advantage of care legally or illegally. In this respect, it is a pity that the Secretary of State is not going to deal with the four amendments that have been tabled. It would have been an ultimate opportunity to take the profits out of care and introduce the obligation to report, so that you know which organisations are active in the municipalities. None of that happened. I'm going to file a few more motions, Mr. Chairman. Then we hope for a follow-up to getting better. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the added value of national tariffs in the Youth Act and the Wmo, including the (possible) savings to be made on the bureaucracy of municipalities and healthcare providers that bring national tariffs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to better align procurement practice with the nature of the social domain and the practice of the Social Support Act and the Youth Act;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare a hand-out to inform municipalities about how procurement procedures can be prevented and replaced by subsidising municipal care and support or by setting up non-procurement public organisations, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the monitoring of the implementation of the Social Support Act by municipalities is still not in place;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether the Social Support Act can be brought under the supervision of the Health and Youth Inspectorate and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs. Sahla of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. For us, a number of points are important: freedom of choice, participation and quality. I have one motion of my own, and we'd like to join Mrs Werner's motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no client organisations involved in the consultation of this law;]] [[Whereas this law may affect the quality of care and the freedom of choice of the client;]] [[calls on the Government to involve client organisations proactively in the implementation of this bill and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sahla and Mr Raemakers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State and, of course, the President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this bill should facilitate the procurement of municipalities and healthcare providers through the inclusion of a can-determine in the Social Support Act and the Youth Aid Act;]] [[Whereas municipalities and healthcare providers need to spend less time on the entire paperwork of the contracting of youth aid or Wmo;]] [[Whereas it makes sense to examine the differences in regulatory pressure between different forms of procurement;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review to examine, four years after the entry into force of this law, whether the inclusion of the provision effectively leads to less paperwork in the contracting process for both municipalities and healthcare providers, and to inform the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Werner, Mr Sahla and Mr Van den Hil.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35816-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	I think the law is being evaluated, so my question is what this motion adds to that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	If you want to change a law, you want to know at some point what the effect of this law is, or who actually does what you want. Of course, you want to test that. That is why we are asking that in four years' time we look again at whether this amendment of the law is indeed doing its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	Makes sense. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your tight leadership again. And, of course, thanks to the Secretary of State for the detailed answer on a bill which I also understand does not create the paradise situation on earth. It is a very small step, but it will hopefully mean for municipalities that they really have less red tape and can easily choose ways of contracting that promote good care, whether it be Wmo or youth. I kept a single question after the first deadline. The Secretary of State himself presented this as a step. This bill will be reviewed in five years' time. If I listen to the Secretary of State in this way, it would be quite a long way away if the next step were to be taken. So I'm curious how he has the sequel in mind. That is the first question. That is in line with my follow-up question. A number of my colleagues and I have also been talking about the European Procurement Directive and what annoying consequences it has for this area. We all know that at the end of 2022 there is the evaluation of the procurement directive and that the government has been encouraged to exempt this area from those procurements. But I still don't have a clear idea how the cabinet is going to proceed with that. In my view, that is the ideal way to ensure that we get further away from the paperwork here. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what he is going to do as soon as that evaluation is available, how he will inform the Chamber and also whether we can talk about it somewhere at the beginning of 2023, so that we can really take new steps here, if possible with friendly countries within the EU. My second and final question is very brief and concerns the AMvB on real prices in the Youth Act. I still hear that there are trials going on because it is difficult to determine exactly which overhead you can ask from a healthcare institution. I would consider it very important that before the AMvB is established on real prices in the Youth Act, the conversation is sought with municipalities that already have experience with the AMvB real prices Wmo. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	Obviously. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van den Hil of the VVD. Then I'm gonna suspend for a while. The next debate is scheduled to begin at 2:45 p.m., and I would also like to say a few words in the direction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't feel any more pressure to do it fast, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	Absolutely not. Take all the time in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, then it's fine. First of all, of course, thanks to the Secretary of State, to the President, but also to all the support that is present. That's always impressive. It was a technical subject. We've had a lot of answers from the Secretary of State. Not everything was entirely to everyone's satisfaction, but that's how it works. I did have a question about the pilots that are running and need to be taught, in English the "best practices." I am pleased that the Secretary of State is going to look into this, but it has emerged from the field that confidence is not always there. I think it is important that this should come out well and that a finger should be kept on the wrist to see how this continues. Then you always hear beautiful things from colleagues in a debate. Those specialist centers also cause concern to the VVD. The Secretary of State has said something about this, but I want a firm commitment that it will remain possible to monitor closely, to see how we will proceed in the future and to keep them in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	Very good. I'm gonna suspend for five minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. I hope he'll be able to end it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	I call the Secretary of State. I hope we can go through it briefly and pointily and stand outside in a few minutes, because the next Secretary of State is already making his appearance and is ready in the wings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 12 calls on the government to allow municipalities to make additional agreements on directors' remuneration. Mrs Westerveld also said: make a good commitment and I can withdraw the motion. In my letter on the Youth Act before mid-May, I will come back explicitly to the question of whether this can be done and how it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (35816), No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	Sustained. Excellent. The motion in part No. 13 gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 14 is dissuaded, strongly dissuaded, I would almost say. The motion in part No. 15 is about national rates. With reference to the debate we have had, I advise against it. The motion in part No. 16. I understand very well what you want in that hand-off. That's what I want. There are also hand-outs. If I may include your question in the existing hand-out, I can give her a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	Does Mr Hijink agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	His yes nod was hard to observe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	It was a very careful yes nod, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 17. I made a commitment on this. I will come back to your Chamber before the summer to ask: how to proceed with the supervision of the Wmo? This further explication makes it difficult to talk about it, so I have to advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 18. I would like to make a commitment instead, but of course you are referring to your motion. Indeed, we should have done better. We're gonna do better in the future. We should have been more active in involving client organisations, young people, the target group itself. We are going to do the same in the implementation of this proposal, but I would not like to impose too much burden on the drafting of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	So judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	I would like to make a commitment that we will involve client organisations better, but that is not specifically linked to this bill. That's the promise I make. I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mrs. Sahla, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	Then I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	At the request of Mrs Sahla, I propose her motion (35816), No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	The motion Werner c.s. in piece No. 19 gets judgment Chamber. There were still a number of explicit demands for commitments. Mrs Westerveld asked about the situation after the award. Who actually accepts what offer? In the end, it is the municipality that concludes the contract. The municipality can say "we don't think this contract is good enough" and eventually refuse it. So much for the short answer to that question. Mrs Bikker asked a very clear question about the standardization of overhead. I'll come back to that when I've had the conversation with the field about how best to do this. We're gonna see if those signals come back. You mention a number of signals about court cases going on. We have noted in the very brief suspension that, however you turn or turn, municipalities can simply put that price on the table, but we will return to those signals once we have discussed the field at the table I mentioned. I'll come back to that in a letter for the summer. I can take care of that with you for the summer. Mrs Bikker also had a question about the evaluation after five years. She said, "Isn't that too far away?" I could do it sooner. She's asking for a three-year term. Then we can evaluate the law sooner. As far as the procurement directive is concerned, the Court remains explicitly involved. The government is also frustrated about this issue. I am happy to discuss this with you at the beginning of 2023, after the evaluation has been carried out, but that is what the Chamber itself is about. The VVD mentioned the specialist centers. I appreciated the motion for a resolution on this matter. We need to learn from the pilots. This will have to be further developed in the discussions with the VNG and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	Very briefly, Mrs Van den Hil, because we really have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	It's really short. I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to come forward with a letter before the summer of 2023. Then he still has this summer and the winter recess. I think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	You're talking about learning from each other through pilots?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	That's what we're gonna do. We can take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	Very good. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	On Tuesday we will vote on the law, the four amendments and the six remaining motions. I thank the Secretary of State for being here today.
