ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Education and Vocational Training Act (BES) in connection with the extension of the derogation to offer the education and examinations of MBO courses at Bonaire in the Papiaments (35893). This is the third term. I assume that the applicant for this third term, Mr El Yassini, will explain this further. It's a whole story, but it's spicy. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you found our humble little place again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u2	I am happy to give the floor to Mr El Yassini. And I would like to add that we have three participants in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, here we are in the third term. In my opinion, we had a debate about the possibility of offering MBO courses in Papiaments at Bonaire not so crazy a long time ago, I think about three weeks ago. That was a lively discussion, in which our objection was in particular that the MBO diploma did not grant admission to higher education. At least that was stated at the time, if I am correct, in the explanatory statement, and the Minister has also confirmed this on a number of occasions. And that was what the debate was about; that was actually the most important point. Well, I am glad that at least the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber in good time, before the votes, to indicate that that information was not correct, because the diploma that you do follow in the Papiaments and then obtain gives admission to higher education in the European Netherlands. That is why we in the VVD Group, but also with the support of the Chamber, have asked for the vote to be postponed and the debate to be reopened by a third deadline, so that we can at least ask a number of questions on the basis of the new and now correct information we have received. We are also directly in our third term, and that is the last, so I will also table a motion at the end of my contribution. But I am also very curious about the Minister's answers to our questions. The basic point is that we have said, at the beginning, with the old information: the MBO diploma in Papiaments does not give access to higher education, so that concludes. But that turns out to be different, and that basically means that in practice you get the situation that a student at Bonaire has an MBO degree in Papiaments, but is allowed to go on to Dutch, or at least European-Dutch, higher education. And then we read in the letter too, but that is also a logical conclusion that someone who has a bit more trouble with the Dutch language, also encounters huge obstacles. We all want to work on it together, from left to right, and are working to ensure that, if students want to study and grow, they get the chance to make it. And in practice we see that these students eventually have the chance that they just end up in the first year. So my question to the Minister, specifically with this new information, is: what are the consequences, what are the obstacles in practice? What does he see happen when more and more courses are offered in the Papiaments? And how else does he intend to ensure that someone who graduate from Bonaire with an MBO degree and wants to flow to higher education will be helped from that moment to the moment he starts his HBO for example in his first year? Of course, and I have already indicated this, I want to know how the Minister looks at this and how the practical problems created by this right of admission are solved. At the same time, I am going to table a motion, precisely because I have noticed that in the debate that we have had, from the left to the right, everyone feels that those, especially young people, but in any case students and people who want to develop and learn for a lifetime should have a little support on Bonaire, and that we want to help those people to get the best out of themselves. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, regardless of the language in which the education is offered, an MBO level 4 training in the BES islands still grants admission to higher education in the European Netherlands;]] [[noting that there is a language barrier for students who have completed MBO training in Papiaments when moving to higher education in the European Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for students from Bonaire to fall into higher education because Dutch language control appears to be a practical obstacle;]] [[Whereas each student should have the opportunity to obtain the best of himself;]] [[Calls on the Government to support MBO students in the BES Islands, at the request of the student, in learning the Dutch language, if they wish to pass on to higher education in the European Netherlands after a Papiament language training course;]] [[calls on the Government to provide this support from the resources for strengthening the education and labour market for the development of the Caribbean Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr El Yassini and Mr Hagen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35893-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u5	Perfect. A question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u6	However, there are a number of discrepancies in this. We have created these training courses in the Papiaments precisely to give those children, those young people, the opportunity to obtain a diploma there, because they do not speak Dutch. Now we get through this mistake that has been made, that this Higher Education Act still judges differently about the idea of the Minister's law, to a point where you say: well, okay, then we're going to give some extra Dutch. 'Cause that's basically what it's all about. But shouldn't we have done that all the way to the front door? Then this law would not have been necessary at all and then those young people could have just studied in Dutch. Then there would have been no problem with the influx to the Netherlands. It seems a bit like this is a trick to get the minister out of trouble and get that law going anyway. Then my second comment, if I may, Mr President. I share Mr El Yassini's warm feelings for young people, for their future, and so on. We all share them. But we must keep in mind that we are legislators. We are assessing a very messy law, which can have a lot of consequences that are legally simply out of place. I'd like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u7	Let me start with the first point. I should like to finish my note, so that I can give a good answer to Mr Beertema immediately. Mr Beertema is right when it comes to foundational education, further training and then the flow. If you see that the Dutch language is not going well, try to solve things in advance. I hear Mr Beertema says: you have to be careful not to use sticking and plastering to try to shove the place up and down while it collapses. In this I agree with him 100% when it comes to foundational education and the flow to, for example, MBO and higher education. But in this particular situation, especially in practice, we see something else. It is not so much about foundational education, but it is often about people who, for example, have not followed the foundational education on Bonaire, but are trying to get an MBO course through lifelong development. Then it's very simple for me. When I look at the practice, I choose to say: grant admissions anyway. I notice that there is a majority in the Lower House, with or without the VVD. Then, at some point, we say, "Let's just let it happen"? Or are we on the button, we come up with a motion and we say: for that life we want to develop and learn at some point to give adults who want to study in particular the opportunity to handle this? But I agree with Mr Beertema that there is an important role for the Minister for Fundamental Education in Bonaire and in Dutch. He also promised in the previous debate that he would look into this. The second point is that there were two questions: whether or not the legislation is in place. I note that the discussion last time was really about the value of the MBO diploma. At some point it was said that this could not be used to flow through, but now it turns out to be the case. So we are no longer talking about the value of the diploma, but about the practical problems you encounter in the first year of higher education. With this motion, we are trying to ensure that they are at least mitigated as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u8	It sounds like art and flying to me to pass a law, a law, not to mention a law. In addition, this legal process does not deserve the beauty prize. The main pillar of this law is that there would be no such access. He's here now. We will be informed much too late, not in the first period, not in the second period, but only after the second period, after which a third period will have to be opened without too much time to get through the law. I would like to point out once again that the main pillar has been withheld from the Chamber. There's been some misinformation. In fact, I do not think the Chamber can let that pass. My proposal would be to repeal the law and ask for the whole process to be reopened. I could live with that. But this way a law through coats I really can't find. We cannot allow that to happen as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr Beertema is right that as a Chamber we have a responsibility to deal with the legislative changes and legislative processes properly. We are also dependent on information that we get from the Ministry in particular. It seems to me that this new minister has learned the lesson that the debate on legislative changes and other matters must be conducted purely, with the right information, which we have at our disposal. As far as this care is concerned, I would point out that we, as a VVD, have requested reopening for a third period. Of course, we could have said: we are doing nothing else and we are dealing with it in a different way in the votes. So I think it is right that we are here to talk about it. Moreover, I think that Mr Beertema will be able to hear the criticism he has made in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u10	You're making it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mrs Hagen from the D66 Group has waived her speaking time. I call the last speaker, Mr Bertema, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the interrupting debate, the whole history has actually passed. So I can proceed immediately to the motion. Oh, now I forgot to bring the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u14	We'll take a minute. Are you sure you're taking the right motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u15	Okay, that was my old man's moment of the day, let's just say, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, after the first and second term of plenary legal proceedings, the Chamber was late in publishing the fact that MBO students of level 3 and level 4 graduating in the Papiaments did not receive access to higher education in the European Netherlands, the Minister said, on the basis of the Higher Education Act;]] [[whereas the Court has thus been informed in the first and second stages and in the second stage (only for the third period, in which there is no room for debate) at least too late;]] [[Whereas it removes the main pillar of this legislative amendment;]] [[considers that the Court cannot accept this practice;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the amendment of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35893-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u16	"Old man moment" is much worse. So let's delete it from the Acts, Mr. Chairman. I'm pulling it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u17	Here's to it. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by apologizing. I regret that I have provided you with incorrect information in the previous part-session. Not only did it make it difficult to have the right discussion, but the elements that I have brought in there, I think, also to a large extent coloured the debate. I wrongly informed the Chamber about the right of students with a Papiamentian MBO 4 degree programme to be admitted to HBO in the European Netherlands. In retrospect, I had to look at this and again I apologize for the fact that it is true that training in Papiaments gives access to HBO, including in the European Netherlands, and that this has eliminated the civil effect, which was a kind of A- and B-version of the MBO diploma. To be honest, I find this surprising, but also gratifying. This means that the path of the students involved is passable to HBO institutions, but it is a difficult path. So I apologize again for that. I would also like to thank you for your warm interest in the MBO. Then I am really speaking to everyone who has had the debate here, even on previous occasions. I think that what connects us here is that we all want to work for the development opportunities of all our students, including those on Bonaire. We are also aware of the barriers and know that it is our job to remove them as much as possible. That is absolutely the case. That is why I think it is right to thank Mr El Yassini for his cooperation on how to make the path from MBO in Caribbean Netherlands to HBO in the European Netherlands possible. That path is in principle passable and will only be relevant to a small number of students; we are talking about no more than ten MBO students who annually flow from Bonaire to an HBO programme in the European Netherlands. But from our general principles, it is important that that path is passable. As already mentioned, the target group we are talking about here often consists of side-instromers who are not powerful in Dutch. For them we develop this special variant. To make that path passable, something extra must be done; I fully agree with that. I also agree that we need to provide additional support to ensure that the civil impact is effective in practice. That is why I am certainly willing to support additional Dutch language teaching at the request of these students. The funding for this could indeed be covered by the appointed funds in the government agreement to strengthen the education and labour market in the Caribbean Netherlands. I therefore thank Mr El Yassini for his cooperation and for his motion. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 8 please leave it to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u19	First, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u20	It is very nice to hear that the Minister also thinks that this commitment is important. I have a short question. When we talk about support, it is important whether it is very small support that they have nothing on, or more support that really provides a basis for moving to higher education. Can the Minister indicate about what the budget, when applying for support to be powerful in the Dutch language, is then per student? Because of course there is a difference between €900 or €9.000.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u21	That's an important question. Of course, this only has effect if it is substantial support. The kind of amount we are thinking about is indeed in the order of about €9,500 per student. I think that would be a typical budget to offer this language help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u22	I see in the motion, and the Minister stressed that in his appreciation, it says "at the request of the student." The Minister translates that into "at the request of the student." So it's a very non-binding construction. There's no obligation whatsoever. Those students don't speak Dutch. That's why they're taking this Papiament training. I can imagine that these students are now thinking: I will get access to that higher education in the European Netherlands, because the law says that it will all work out. In my opinion it can never be enough that they take an extra course in Dutch, and I do know a bit about foreign language education. I'm just afraid that these students are now tempted by the law to make the big crossing to the Netherlands, to invest in living space and in plane tickets and so on, while they're almost doomed to fail, even if they take an extra course in Dutch. I therefore find it regrettable that the Minister gives this motion 'judgement chamber'. This is gonna be a lot of trouble. Maybe we'll come back to that, but then it's too late for a lot of those boys and girls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u23	I think we're really having the conversation. We really do customization. Again, we are talking about a group of students who do this in their first approach as they really do. This training will enable them to better position themselves on the local labour market. That's the problem we're dealing with here. At the same time, we're also having the other conversation. If these students decide to take the path to a European-Dutch HBO institution, it should be possible, for reasons of principle, to provide them with this support and make it a substantial support. Of course, they have Dutch in their education anyway. It's not like they don't get Dutch at all. On the previous occasion, we also discussed whether that level is high enough to make a successful transition to HBO. Anyway, it's about very small numbers. I think it is important to have proper information, but if we were to carry out this motion, there would of course also be the support needed for the individual case. In addition, of course, we have a broader conversation with each other, which we have also discussed here in the Chamber: what can we do now to support the students from the Caribbean part of the Netherlands here in the Netherlands? We know they often have specific problems. There's a directing group that's got a lot of attention for that. It is something that is high on my agenda anyway to accompany this special group, which we have extra concerns about. I think that we now have the tools with this package to deal with what is actually the question of these students themselves in a good way. Then there is my response to Mr Beertema's remark and motion. Again, I apologize to him too, because we had an exciting debate on the previous occasion. I feel like we've done that on the wrong base, and it's touching me deeply. As a result, part of our discussion was irrelevant, but I am glad that we now have an opportunity to correct that. I have already stressed that the whole legislative proposal is intended to focus mainly on this group of students on the labour market in Bonaire in order to improve their position and strengthen the local labour market. We have already said that in the end there is such a path to HBO training in Europe. That's why I dressed this up. You point out that this actually lost the ground under the bill and that a general review would be necessary. On that aspect, I differ from you. The debate does not deserve a beauty prize, as Mr El Yassini has already said. That's on my side, because I didn't give you the right information. But I feel that we have made customisation here and that we are going to do something in the whole process, from the debate we have had among ourselves to the additional facilities that we are going to make in this way, which really improves the labour market position but also the opportunities for these students to grow on Bonaire. That's what brings us together here. I know you all, I say from the bottom of my heart, as a true warm friend of the MBO. I also know that some of you know this well from your own experience. In the end, I think that this legislative proposal has really strengthened both their personal development and their labour market position and potential growth opportunities for a number of students. That is why we are having this debate together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u24	Very good. So far. I am a little concerned that the point that Mr Beertema is raising is actually that parliamentary control has not been sufficient. The Minister has apologized, and that is appreciated. It is important that we do not have this as a Lower House too often, I suggest. But it is appreciated that the Minister has been here; his frankness and his words are also appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-25-tweedekamer-10.u25	We are voting on Tuesday on the law and on the motions. I shall suspend until 3 p.m. and thank the Minister once again for his presence here.
