ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u1	I'm reopening. The mood's a little bleak for Thursday night. Out of the question, that's the word. But that ended immediately! The next item is the debate on the Start note. A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for joining us. We have no less than nineteen speakers in the first term. Nineteen! We don't go through that every day. As you know, everyone has four minutes' speaking time. I think that four interruptions per group are sufficient in this period. I really think we should be able to make it through that. Mr Van Dijck has been ready for 20 minutes, but I am now going to turn on the sound. I don't know if that's gonna make a huge difference, but... I call Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Four minutes is very little for this debate, because it is about the Start note and about nearly 200 billion. That's 50 billion a minute. So I'll talk soon. Mr. Chairman. It was a moth, a forced marriage. And then what do you get? A coalition agreement full of concessions and gifts. Counterfeitings were paid off. The VVD got some money for the DOD. The CDA got the basic grant. D66 got a huge bag of money for climate, nitrogen, education, childcare and culture. And the Christian Union was allowed to invent the title: Seeing each other. How beautiful is that? Mr. Chairman. This Start note makes a false start on this cabinet. It started with a coalition agreement that had not been passed on. The purchasing power plates turned out to be far too rosy. Not everyone was getting better, but nobody was getting better. In fact, with current inflation, the whole of the Netherlands is likely to go deep in the minus. Half of the measures have not yet been worked out in the Start note. It's a big blank check. The billions for nitrogen, climate, research, infra, the financing of co-governments, the abolition of social funds and surcharges, the allowance for students: everything has yet to be worked out and completed. My first question to this Minister is: when will we get the real starting note? Because today we are actually debating a piece of shit. But one thing is clear: this cabinet is going to throw money. It conducts a very pro-cyclically expansionary fiscal policy. This Minister of Finance is opening all the locks wide open. Don't cut back, don't weigh any burdens. Spend is the adage, this cabinet alone 75 billion. And as if it is not enough, we are introducing all kinds of blurry funds to move forward until 2035: a climate fund, a nitrogen fund, a science fund, a growth fund. And that adds up to nearly 100 billion. Many economists are therefore warning of waste - the efficiency is at risk - and for labour shortages. Are all these plans feasible, because we already have too few people? They also warn of the poor timing of high inflation. Now spending billions is oil on the fire of inflation and can lead to overheating of our economy. Can the Minister respond to this? So many questions and many open ends. Hopefully, the Spring Paper will provide more clarity, because the Spring Note will actually be the actual Start Note. Mr. Chairman. And then the purchasing power. As has already been said, the cabinet is scattering billions, but forgetting the citizen. With an inflation rate of 7.6%, the water is on the lips of many families. And this minister is just looking the other way. She doesn't intend to intervene. More and more people can't pay their bills anymore. The prices are skyhigh. The gas, the energy bill, the groceries, a rental house: it's all impossible to pay anymore. And this minister gives up to 4 billion dollars to Italy, so that they can grow their homes from our money there. But she does not have a penny left for our pensioners, who have been on the line with their pension for 12 years. This minister puts billions of funds in place for climate and nitrogen, but leaves entire families in the cold because they cannot pay their energy bills. Mr. Chairman. The crucial question today is therefore: what is the Minister going to do to repair purchasing power? Now, today, because this cannot wait until the Spring Paper, and certainly not until 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you. You have 20 seconds left. And then complain about the time! Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u4	I am a little surprised by Mr Van Dijck's criticism. He says, "It's not all worn out yet." But we have had debates in this house over the last two years about, for example, 'Clamp between desk and policy' by former colleague Bosman. He said, "Before you fill something out completely in detail, you also have to look at what's executable from time to time." He said, "Converse with the execution." Now there is a coalition agreement that occasionally does something in an open way. And now Mr Van Dijck's line is: it is a pity that you have not discussed it with each other until the end of the day. I do not think that is entirely consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u5	It also gives a lot of uncertainty. It says, for example, that the funding system of municipalities must be different. There is even talk of a private tax domain for municipalities. There will be municipal elections soon. Those municipalities want to make plans until 2026, but they can't do that now because there's something about a vague, shadowy plan that we all don't know about, a little plan to change the funding system of municipalities. And since we don't know it, municipalities can't plan and everything is actually locked. I'd like to avoid that. Of course, everything doesn't have to be worn out. However, there is just 60 billion for nitrogen and a climate fund, but we do not know how they get that amount at all. Is that enough? Isn't that too little? How much CO emissions do we want to avoid? How's the Chamber gonna do all these plans, check all these targets? We have the budget right. How are we going to justify this? Economists also have a lot of comments on this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u6	I think all the economists at the round table, in which we were both present, said how good it was that this cabinet is investing big in climate, education and nitrogen. I really understand that we still have things to work out and that there is also a need for haste at times; I fully agree with Mr Van Dijck. But what I find so weird is that he's actually saying, it's a shame you didn't slam it up to 23 digits behind the comma in the back room. I almost get the impression that Mr Van Dijck misses the old administrative culture more than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u7	It doesn't have to be worked out to three digits behind the decimal point, but it can give a little more direction. Now there's something about 3 billion relief, but we don't even know how to fill it out. A preposition was made because of the CPB, but it can change with the spring note. At least that's how I understood it. So in other words, this is very vague and is about a lot of money. That's not a start note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you. I call Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, we started a mission, namely to put public finances in order. That's what we did in the midst of a massive crisis. It sucked, but it had to, and it did. After difficult years, the Netherlands was back on track and there was room to invest. But those investments had to move away right away, this time because of the corona crisis. Many tens of billions were needed to keep entrepreneurs alive. Fortunately, this was also possible, thanks to the economy in previous years. That is why, even after these massive packages of aid, public debt remained below the 60% European standard. What a contrast with those many other European countries where public debt exploded into unsustainable proportions during the same period. And to make the contrast even greater: if we didn't do something, our public debt would eventually even fall to 28%. Mr. Chairman. This is not in proportion to the major societal challenges we face today. I call late maintenance on our infrastructure. I call it strengthening the position of middle incomes. I mention necessary investments in security and defence. I refer to the sustainability of our industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u10	I know Mr Heinen as a very realistic man. He rightly notes that public debt is below the SGP standards. Does he agree with me that this is certainly not the case for other countries in the euro area, and that we must therefore at all times prevent debt from being spread over all Member States via Eurobonds and all kinds of other funds? 'Cause then, of course, we're staying in the monkey. So is Mr Heinen really against Eurobonds and actually sharing European debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u11	I can be very brief about that; I very much agree with that. I'm against Eurobonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u12	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. Blind staring at debt repayment, you don't transfer accounts to future generations, but pass on your problems. As a result, the account will be much higher in the future. So now it's really time to invest. But where the criticism during the first Rutte Cabinets was that there was too little investment, the criticism is that too much investment is being made. So it could be. This does not mean, however, that we can simply spend money and allow public debt to grow infinitely. That's what the Central Planning Bureau warned about recently. This criticism is quite noticeable. The CPB assumes that the new nitrogen and climate funds will last forever, so that all Cabinets will continue to spend on climate and nitrogen forever after Rutte IV. That won't be necessary. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is not going to happen either. However, I do take this criticism to heart, because people need to be able to trust that we handle taxpayers' money properly. That is why it seems sensible to me that we should legally anchor the fact that the nitrogen and climate funds are temporary, that they therefore cease to exist and that we should make proper cost-benefit analyses, just as we do with the infrastructure projects within the Mobility Fund. If it doesn't solve the problems, we're not going to spend the money as far as I'm concerned. Period. The same goes for how we deal with setbacks. Politics must really get out of the cramp that it is looking directly at where taxes can be further increased in every setback. Because instead of always looking at where extra taxes can be levied, we can of course also decide with each other to simply spend less. High inflation is already making everything expensive. Then the answer can't be: let's make people's lives miserable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u14	That's gonna trigger me anyway. This morning, I read De Telegraaf. That is when I saw Mr Heinen's contribution. And then I thought, "I'm sure he's gonna tell us what we're gonna spend less on tonight if it's not so bad." We already have the first setback: box 3. That setback's already in there. Something is also coming from Europe. But I'm actually very curious about that. Perhaps Mr Heinen cannot say exactly, but can he at least indicate what he is thinking about and what he might think about in the coalition together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u15	That is a fair question, and it is also somewhat predictable. The tradition that we have here, and whatever fits in with the trendary fiscal policy, is that we look at it in the spring. That's the time to look at how to compensate for certain setbacks. As far as I am concerned, we are looking at expenditure. Which ones exactly, I can't say yet, because I don't know exactly what the setbacks are either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u16	There is, of course, one thing in the country that lives hugely. That's box 3; I just mentioned it. There are people who really think, "What's it gonna be paid out of?" We've got that setback. Let us wait for the Spring note for the setbacks that we do not yet know, but I would like an answer for this one. What is Mr Heinen thinking when it comes to eliminating this setback in spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u17	The same applies to this. For this, it is important that we first see the extent of the problem. We don't even know that. We do know there's a setback in box 3. That depends on what your perspective is, by the way. It's a setback for the government, for the state budget. The people themselves who catch it back say: it should never have been given up. But it's a setback for the state budget. We don't know what the size is. So you can't speculate where you're gonna get it and how you're gonna compensate. It always has to be in that order. First, you take stock of what the setbacks are. You also know that in the performance there are always windfalls. Maybe you can cross them out against each other. Maybe they're not in proportion. You'll see that in the spring. Only then can you decide. I'm not gonna speculate about that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u18	Of course, it's not about speculating. Let's just name it. If you look at it retroactively, you can see that it could end up at about 20 billion. Let's just say that's it. If Mr Heinen says he's assuming half or a quarter, that's okay. But then I would like to know: is this taken away from people by, for example, taxing property more heavily or are we actually going to spend less as a government, as Mr Heinen says? I hear Mr Heinen say that now. That is what I hear Mr Heinen say to De Telegraaf. I'm assuming it's true what's in there. So I would like to know what we are going to spend less on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u19	Mr Stoffer can ask the question three times, but then he gets the same answer three times. Mr Stoffer mentions a figure of 20 billion. I don't know if it's 20 billion. Maybe it's 10 billion. Maybe it's a billion. Maybe it's 500 million. With which you cover the setback, of course depends on the extent of the problem. Again, as long as we don't know the extent of the problem, you really can't anticipate its coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u20	Your last interruption, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u21	Yeah, I'm gonna try one more time anyway. Let's assume it's 10 billion, but another amount is also good. When it comes, are we going to cover it by spending less or are we going to cover it by generating more revenue, or by taxing more?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u22	That is the fourth time that the question has been asked. I'm gonna give the same answer for the fourth time. It's all speculation. You don't know the extent of the problem yet and then you don't know where you're gonna get it from. The general principle within the budgetary rules is that you also cover the revenue side of your failures on the revenue side. At the same time, it says in the Start note that we can review the frameworks in spring, that we will keep a close eye on revenue and expenditure, precisely because the cabinet is at the beginning of a government period. We don't know exactly how all the purchasing power works yet. That is what we now see with inflation. It is only then that you can decide on it, but the general principle that you can also look at expenditure is standing for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u23	Do you know the proverb "a cat in a tight spot makes weird jumps"? That is what Mr Heinen's contribution reminds me of. He starts by saying that we've made a lot of cuts. Now that pendulum goes all the way to the other side. Then he blames the CPB and Mr Stoffer a bit, while he says in an interview in De Telegraaf that we have to cut back. In it, he gives all the evasive answers. I'm asking the VVD what she actually stands for. Isn't the cause of the huge rising public debt, which I'm very concerned about, that debt is being transferred to a next generation of debt holders, that there is no substantial tax review in which polluters pay and wealthy pay? We've presented credit transfers to show you how else to do it. Then there's no need. Then you can make the investments. Then there is no need for the government deficit to rise so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u24	I will try to summarize Mr Nijboer's question. I think this is what he's saying. In the coalition agreement, we set up a Climate Fund and a Transition Fund to help industry, but also ordinary people in normal homes, to make that transition. When I freely translate Mr Nijboer's question, he actually says: don't spend so much money, but force people to make it more sustainable, normalize it and burden it. I looked at Mr Nijboer's bill. There's a tax increase of 20 billion. This is the way of Mr Nijboer, of the PvdA, to use the sustainability transition. That wouldn't be my choice. In fact, I think it is very damaging to the support for this sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u25	I repeat the proverb once more: a cat in the tights makes weird jumps. In our accounts we give extra money to the low and middle incomes to stimulate, to experience it. We leave the climate funds untouched. It is true that we are not spending 5 billion on nuclear power stations. So we opt for some other use. Mr Heinen's explanation is incorrect. He knows better, too. My point is that in the coalition a lot of political differences have been paid off with money. The fundamental review that is needed in our country is a tax reform. This also allows you to raise money; among the most wealthy, among the polluters. That choice wasn't made. The result is that accounts will be transferred to a next generation. This is diametrically opposed to what the VVD normally stands for in terms of public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u26	I think it is a lot to talk about shifting accounts when you present yourself a plan in which you raise the burden for EUR 20 billion in this cabinet period. I find that really shocking. We're dealing with inflation. People's purchasing power is under pressure. That is precisely what the PvdA is concerned about, the purchasing power of very normal people. And then you come up with an account of 20 billion euros and you're gonna blame the VVD for saying we're gonna compensate for that and help people make a transition for the next few years. I think that's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u27	I find this really below the level of a financial spokesman of the largest party in the Netherlands. We presented accounts together with GroenLinks yesterday. They're all calculated on purchasing power. That's much better than the cabinet. It was just about cutting middle incomes. That's just zero. With inflation, that's going to be below zero. Those are all choices. But just stand in front of it and don't spread lies about other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u28	Mr Nijboer is right. The amount of 20 billion doesn't add up. The burden will be increased by 28.7 billion. It can just be read back in the CPB overdrafts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u29	I have a question somewhat along the lines of Mr Nijboer's. The public debt is about to rise enormously. But it's not just that. There's tens of billions being thrown. I wonder how the VVD can take care of that? The VVD has always been the party of "small government, small state." Shouldn't you acknowledge that with this Start note the State is going to grow much further? How can the VVD take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u30	On the contrary, I very much support this coalition agreement and I will tell you why. In this cabinet period, the government debt is falling. I think that's a pretty nice VVD point. Government debt is falling, and we're leaving it lower than it is at the moment in this cabinet period. You can just check that in the CPB transfer account. Then you have the question: how does the government debt develop in the long term? That is what we said in the coalition agreement: we need to invest to make the Netherlands more sustainable, so that the Netherlands can grow again and we create new jobs and generate new revenue. At the same time, you can't spend the rest of your life doing that. So that's what we're doing with the funds. Those funds are finite, so the public debt doesn't rise. If you have read the CPB transfer correctly, then you also know that the CPB says: if these funds last forever, then the public debt increases, but if they are temporary, then the public debt will be much lower. Then the CPB also said: there are not many measures in our accounts, including the measures we take on care, to make cost increases manageable there. Then you see that if you take all that, you just have a manageable sovereign debt. Then you do two things. Then you do late maintenance: you invest in important matters such as security, defence, education and sustainability of your economy. And you do it in a way that makes financial sense. I strongly support this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u31	So this is not really an answer to my question. My question was about the tens of billions that are being spent extra. This means, on balance, that the state is growing further and further, and that the inflation rate which is the highest in 40 years, we have read this morning, is being fueled even further. You have to agree with me, don't you? So how can the VVD take care of that huge expenditure impulse?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u32	That's a fair question. You can have a whole philosophical discussion about the size of the State and whether or not it increases, but let's bring it back to a household. Childcare is one of the things we spend more on. You'll only be a hard-working family with two kids in child care, which is incredibly expensive. It'll just make that child care cheaper for you. So your purchasing power will increase. I guess you won't tell your wife at the kitchen table: well, honey, gut, gut, gut, that government gets bigger. You think: wow, fantastic, what a beautiful coalition chord, those burdens go down for us, finally air in the housekeeping book.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u33	I have one more follow-up question. "Purchasing power is increasing." Inflation has never been so high. Families in the Netherlands are on the lips. Of the energy price, of the fuel price, for example, 65% is excise duty, tax. So how can you say that purchasing power is increasing? We see that purchasing power is falling on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u34	Then we'll have to get back to the facts. As a result of the coalition agreement, purchasing power is increasing, balanced across all groups. We can now see that inflation is hard hitting that purchasing power. We saw that coming last year, of course. That is why we have also compensated the energy bill by billions. That really is a huge help for all those people who are dealing with that high energy bill. But we can see that inflation is continuing. Then we will see again in the spring what we can do about it. Then, I say through the chairman, you can have a very philosophical discussion about the size of the State, but in the end I am simply looking at the size of the household booklet. We gotta get some air in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u35	I'm kind of banging my ears, too. I saw in the technical briefing we received from the CPB that Mr Heinen and a number of other coalition spokesmen Finance took a bit white, because the figures were very hard. I don't understand this play. Mr Heinen says here that in recent years... Actually he says: we have not invested enough in infrastructure, we have not done anything about education, we have actually made a mess of it. Now we're gonna open that wallet so much that it's affecting the next generation. And then he says: but this is really good policy. For the past ten years, it's been a mess, and now we're pulling that wallet, uncovered. How does Mr Heinen explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u36	First, a personal fact. There is a reference to a technical briefing where we would have gone white. I wasn't there myself. I had other obligations. So that's not quite the correct representation of the facts. If we are talking about the facts, then we must also look at the past ten years, at what an incredible decade this has been. We started, I started my contribution to a huge job: a huge economic crisis. It seems far behind us, but it is not so long ago that we really had a huge economic blow in Europe. For this, public finances had to be put in order. You'll have to cut back. Then you can't invest. Then it's in order, you can invest and we'll face a global pandemic that'll wipe out all the countries. That was another economic blow. There are huge support packages that you can then invest, but we gave them to entrepreneurs to guide them through that corona crisis. Now we have put that economic crisis behind us, and that pandemic is on its way. Now you have the financial space. Then you have to invest. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u37	This is really rewriting history. In 2012, 2013, when the cabinet decided to take 52 billion from the hardworking Dutch, this was not necessary for the sovereign debt. That's what economists said. In fact, when 150 economists were asked what was the biggest threat to economic growth, they were number two: government policy. There was almost no economist who said we had to cut back. The result was that we were in a recession longer. Later than America, we only started to grow again in 2016, 2017. Suddenly it went great, because of the attracting foreign trade, the global economy. So if Mr Heinen is saying here that we then came up with some very clever things that saved the economy, then that really is rewriting history. But there's a point I really want to make. I have seen colleagues from Mr Heinen here. They have been defending austerity here, always under the title: public debt. I have spoken about the 3% and the 60%. They said, "What have I done in recent years? What have I done?" The conclusion I draw is that even the Den Uyl cabinet would turn around and see that this cabinet overtakes the expenses of that time on the left. What this cabinet is doing, I say through you, Mr President, is really burdening the next generations with a huge debt. It's a cowardly policy somewhere, too, because they don't dare to choose. They'll spend the money, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u38	Are you going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u39	My question is: why does Mr Heinen choose not to make the choice of cover for this too? I understand that he has the ambition to solve big problems. I understand the expenses, too. I can go along with that in a way. But the cover for that expenditure is really not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u40	I can't suppress a little smile because it can't be both true. If we cut back, Mr. Azarkan calls it "difficulty." If we invest, then it is "billions to be thrown over the bar," I say in Mr Azarkan's words. And if we now put down a package with which we both invest and reduce the financial burden on very normal people, then it is 'uncovered'. It can't all be true. It's cheating, it's throwing over the beam and now it's uncovered. I wouldn't really know what Mr Azarkan I'm dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u41	It's not so much what I think. It's just the Central Planning Agency saying it's uncovered. Then Mr Heinen can tell a trick by saying: at the end of the cabinet period, which fortunately lasts only three years, then the public debt is lower. But in the base path it would have been a lot lower. The increase that Mr Heinen is applying through this coalition agreement and which he is defending here means, on balance, that we will be burdening next generations with two things in the future. That is to say, with greater debt and it is only a question of whether this will lead to solving the problems as they are today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u42	The problems we have now are clear. We're dealing with late maintenance. We are dealing with necessary investments in security, infrastructure and defence. And you need to make your economy more sustainable. If you don't make those investments, in my opinion, you're gonna pass on problems. That account is going to be much higher. It is better to maintain a bridge than to have to replace it altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u43	I wholeheartedly endorse Mr Heinen's last words. The sooner you start, the cheaper it is. Unfortunately, these necessary investments in climate, in the biodiversity crisis and in the nitrogen crisis under Rutte I, II and III have all been avoided. Or they didn't work out right, which made it worse. My question to Mr Heinen is as follows. We agree that investing is fine. It just shifts a debt to the future. We agree on that, too. Investments must be repaid. That doesn't have to be a big deal, as long as we're sure it's the right investment. What can I do with Mr Heinen to measure the accuracy of these investments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u44	This is a good question, because in the end it is a political question as to what the right investments are. I think that may be different along political lines, but we have here as a common denominator that we see that a number of investments are really needed. One of these is the sustainability of your economy and the nitrogen that we need to solve with each other. That's what you need to invest in, if you want to fix it. Mr Van Raan is right to ask how do you do this effectively and effectively, if I may sum it up in this way. So I think it is important that we do so as we do with the other funds. For example, with the Mobility Fund: you simply count on cost-benefit analyses. I think it would be good if we also applied this within the climate and transition fund, and in the nitrogen fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u45	We agree on that. I am curious to see how Mr Heinen will be able to deal with the nitrogen crisis, for example, once again. Should we not have another fundamental discussion about this? This is a start note debate, so we have time and space to have that fundamental debate here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u46	It is right to say that we are dealing here with the Start note. With this we discuss the financial frameworks and give the cabinet a number of frameworks within which it can act, both legally and financially. We wait and see what the cabinet comes up with when it comes to the nitrogen plans. I'll be able to judge them, too. I haven't seen any plans yet. The fact that they are under discussion is a fairly quick conclusion if the plans have not even been sent to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u47	The coalition agreement is called Seeing each other. I have just heard Mr Heinen say that he is very proud of the coalition agreement, because it says and has been achieved that no one is going down in terms of purchasing power. Now I think I remember that in the declaration of government, we really talked about a very large group of people, namely pensioners, who are getting worse. That's what I see in the Nibud's accounts. Now it may be that there is now a plan, which you know about and which now makes you say 'no one is going backwards'. Or was it a slip?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u48	Mevouw Den Haan refers to the purchasing power of the elderly. I think that is a valid point. We often talk about workers in this house. There is also a group that also participates in society, but that does not always have to be with a paid job. Then we're talking about the group AOW'ers. We see that measures have been taken in the coalition agreement to increase the purchasing power of the elderly. That's a good thing. But there, too, inflation is, of course, hitting hard. We have had this very debate during the debate on the government statement. The VVD, together with others, has tabled a motion to monitor and compensate for the purchasing power of older people. We don't know exactly what that's about. You can look both ways. At first we had a nice debate on whether it should be through revenue or through expenditure. It can be both. If you do it through the AOW button, you do it through the expenses. If you do it through the tax, through the revenue. You should really look at that in the spring. Then you should also see how to do it in a targeted way. The tax may not always be the best way to compensate every group. That effect will come in the spring. Then we have a better idea of inflation, of purchasing power and of how to compensate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u49	Clear. Then I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u51	But I was very curious, because you indicated that everyone is not going backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u52	Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u53	To add, of course, we are aiming for a positive purchasing power picture. You can't make promises in advance how that works out for every group in the Netherlands and for every individual. You don't know that. You strive that purchasing power is maximum for all groups in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u54	Thank you for having a moment to talk until Mrs Maatoug arrives at the microphone. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u55	I have a personal fact to share first. Like Mr Heinen, I like facts and I think it is important that what we say here in the Chamber is true. The personal fact is that the purchasing power in our counter-budget is improving for all groups, unlike in the cabinet. But then my question, Mr. Chairman, through you. I'm really a little confused, because first I read in an election program of the VVD that the costs of profit and capital go up by 3.6 billion. Then there was a coalition agreement and nothing happened on profit and capital, on the expense side. Then we had the government declaration debate and there was a Prime Minister here who said: we have no problem at all. It's okay. It's okay. Then, a few weeks later, the Secretary of State himself said: the ink is not dry yet and we have a huge problem with box 3. What did the coalition say? Nice motion, we're going to look into the same domain to solve this problem. So we're going to look at capital at the expense side, in line with budgetary rules. A week later, we're in a debate and I hear the financial spokesman of the VVD say: you know what else we can do? and forget what you heard last week? We're just going to cut spending. Then my question is: whose interest are you defending? Why is it so important that we can't do anything about one of the biggest problems we have in this country? The burden on capital and profits, the burden on capital, has fallen over the last 20 years. Why do the VVD's have to keep falling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u56	The question is, who am I standing here for? I'm standing here for every normal Dutchman who's really trying to make something out of his life. I am now making a bridge to the purchasing power you referred to, I say through the chairman. I saw in your program that it's rising in this cabinet period. I also saw that the account for this is after that cabinet period, for example by abolishing the mortgage interest rate deduction. So that's a bit of a cigar out of your own box when we're talking facts. Then the question about box 3. It is true, according to the budgetary rules, you have to look within the burden framework. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the Start note which states that the Spring Note can still be placed within these frameworks. That is important, because several problems are now piling up. We have box 3, we have setbacks from Europe and we are dealing with inflation. In spring we have to see how they all relate to each other, what the size is and how you're going to compensate them. Then you have to look at both the expenditure framework and the revenue framework. What strikes me in this debate in this house is the greedyness to raise taxes. I wonder what problem we're solving. It seems to me to be an ideological battle. We have to look at the household books of very normal people and I think they benefit from lower burdens, not higher ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u57	We want to increase charges, because some Cabinets have constantly lowered them. We ignore report after report and then there's a spokesperson here, a week after his fellow spokesperson says: maybe we should stay in the same domain. I'm starting to feel some kind of arbitrariness about when you apply the budget rule. On the one hand, we hear a financial spokesman talking about strict frameworks, an opening in this contribution, and we have to go back to that ship... When it comes to a CPB that says "hey, your income effects are actually different," I don't see that in the Start note. If a CPB says "hey, your implementation of these measures is not so clear that they are popping out," they are still included in the financial frameworks. I feel a kind of selective shopping here. The same applies to budgetary rules. I have often stood here with similar words as my predecessor, Mr Snels, who said: here we have a motion and we cover it from the burden side. It was then always the VVD that said: dear people, the budgetary rules! But when it suits them, I say, through you, Mr President, these budgetary rules suddenly do not matter anymore. So my question is: why are we not going to solve the box 3 problem, as your colleague said in the debate last week, in the same area, namely on the burden side, on the assets and profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u58	That is precisely the debate we have had before, because you do not know the extent of the problem. I heard Mr Stoffer mention a figure of 20 billion. It is simply not a question of covering that within the same domain, as Mrs Maatoug knows. It starts with clarifying the problem and the extent of the problem. Then you can take a look at cover. It is true that the general principle is that you cover within frameworks, but if you read the Start note, you will also see that you can review the frameworks. The coalition agreement says that we are simply following up on the entire Budget Space Study Group. So it's not selective shopping. So we are simply taking over the entire study group on budgetary space, with all the underlying budgetary rules. But because you are at the beginning of a cabinet period, you see, for example, how purchasing power develops and what problems accumulate. You'll see that in the spring, and then you'll see how to fix it. If such a problem is indeed 20 billion, then it is quite something to say that you are going to cover it through the burden side too, because then that account will be much higher at a time of inflation. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u59	I have a question for Mr Heinen. I think he looked at Buitenhof last Sunday, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u60	No, I was playing with my kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u61	That's his right, too. I think a lot of people here in the Chamber have looked. Mr Klaas Knot was very clear, just as so many economists are very clear. In principle, I am not opposed to a lot of proposals from this cabinet, but this cabinet is using only one of the three instruments, namely expenditure. There are no tax reforms. Pricing and standardisation is not taking place either. Mr Klaas Knot said that in the end, I paraphrase: if you take only one instrument out of the toolbox, then you are not effectively trying to organize the national economy properly. I would nevertheless like Mr Heine to reflect on these words from the President of De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u62	I did not see the broadcast, but I looked back in part; so I know about what Mrs Gündoğan is referring to. I'm really fighting the idea that we wouldn't do enough. In fact, the criticism that this coalition is getting is: beware, are you not too ambitious and can you live up to it all? That in the first place. When it comes to fiscal reforms, I think this is a coalition agreement that puts down the most ambitious plan, for example when it comes to the surcharges. We abolish a whole supplement and simplify other fees. That has not yet worked, and we are just going to do it with each other. We do this in a way that makes it good in purchasing power. The child care allowance is going to bring enormous benefits to entire families, working families. So I think we have a lot of ambition there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u63	I am glad that Mr Heinen is laughing and that he is so happy with a part of it, but that is not enough. There is simply not enough work being done on the fact that we have become the country, and have been for a long time, with the greatest lack of ability. The first 50% in this country has nothing or debts. Then Mr Heinen can say very nicely that he does not want a burden increase, but I do not think that anyone in the Chamber wants that. It is also possible to obtain the national budget in different ways through different forms of taxation. One could be that you're less labour-intensive, leaving us away from the interest-rate economy that Mr Knot is talking about, and that we're taking more away from the feeling of swiss life, so that hard work actually pays off. I think that's something the VVD is in favour of. Through the President, I say that I think it is a bit of a selective answer to take only one thing out and then abandon the rest of the possible fiscal reforms that are urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u64	Of course, it is not the case that a coalition agreement is not complete as one part of it that you stand for. I can imagine you saying that, but that's not how it's supposed to be. On the issue of power inequality, however, I would like to point out that power inequality is decreasing. A CBS report from last December also pointed that out. When it comes to the difference between wealth and labour, the story is always: we increase taxes on wealth and then we can reduce taxes on labour. That's actually nice. What the hell did we see? Two left-wing parties who have been proclaiming this adage for a long time present a plan. What do we see happening? The taxes are both going up. Well, that's striking, isn't it? So it's easy to talk. Two left-wing parties who preach the adage that the load on power needs to be raised and the burden on labour needs to be reduced, join hands to make that happen. But if this doesn't even work for them, then you can see how very difficult that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u65	Luckily, we have other people for that. I have often referred to Mr Cnosse and Mr Jacobs' draft for a better tax system. This draft is known to the Ministry of Finance. It's okay. It's okay. As a result, we can charge about 9% less tax on labour on average. That's just gonna help everybody, especially the working poor. So, through the President, I would like to ask you once again if you really want to do something about it, so that we can get rid of this low-interest economy and make business and work actually pay in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u66	I am referring to an interrupting debate that I had with another colleague on container concepts and a very philosophical concept as an interest-rate economy. Let's go back to what this is all about. We're talking about savings from perfectly normal people. The wealth is in the Netherlands in pensions and in houses. If you say we have to tax wealth, you're actually saying we're going to make living more expensive and tax pensions more heavily. That's a big deal. You'll just stand in front of your AOW with a little supplementary pension and you'll hear politics say they're gonna tax the pension fund. You'll only be in one house. I've also seen your plan, I say through the chairman and you're moving out. Then it's said, "Hey, you're selling it, you've made a profit, that's capital, so that's what I'm going to tax. That kind of removal fines doesn't help the housing market run smoothly. I think we can find each other on general concepts such as what you should and should not tax, but if you look at the concrete effects, then you are talking about very normal people sitting in a house and having a pension, which is what politics says we should tax. I'm just not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u67	I wasn't going to spend my fourth interruption on you, but there it goes anyway. It's just not right what you're saying. There are a lot of people who have invested very cleverly in the last corona period. Apparently, they call themselves visionary. That will be broadcast at Sander's and the rift. They simply have tons of wealth income and pay zero euros on it. And there are people in this country who clean our hospitals and have to choose which of their two children can go to sports class. There are people who can't give breakfast to their children. I'm gonna ask you nicely again. If we want to move from a low-interest economy to an economy in which the setting of your alarm clock is actually going to pay, then it is high time to look at fair taxes with a blank sheet. It can't be when there are sacred houses and dogmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u68	No, we totally agree on that. There was just a reference to the cleaner. According to the coalition agreement, it benefits enormously from an increase in the minimum wage and the reduction of the burden. That is exactly what Mrs Güntoğan says. That direction is being pursued with this coalition agreement. The charges at the bottom of the payroll building are going down. Because not all taxes are there, we also raise the minimum wage. And assets are taxed more heavily in the coalition agreement. We're going to make a real return. If you have a lot of capital and you make a lot of returns, that means you're going to pay a fair tax on it. There are many other measures in it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u69	We're gonna talk about that some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u70	...but I hear the chairman isn't interested in hearing it. That may have something to do with the political colour. No, he's independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u71	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u72	I would like to return to Mrs Den Haan's reaction on the AOW. I heard a very technocratic story. We are going to see how we can solve that... I said it in the previous debate as well. The VVD has twice in the election programme that there is no interference with the AOW. Then that happens. Then everything must be rigged to ensure that you retain that purchasing power. What the party, and I think the whole coalition, completely ignores, is that piece of appreciation. It is always such a technocratic story, but it is forgotten that we are actually raising the middle finger to all those people who have worked for decades to provide the prosperity we now have. They're actually just being pushed aside. My question is: does the VVD want to think about getting the AOW back to normal and not rigging everything up? By the way, I wonder what it's gonna cost again. Just stick to the plan: don't disconnect the AOW and we'll be done with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u73	Here, Mrs Van der Plas and I are in complete agreement. With Mrs Den Haan I had an interrupting debate in which I indicated that the appreciation for the elderly should really be there. When we talk about workers in this house, I imagine you'll feel a little out of the question if you follow this debate. People think: I no longer work, but I do participate in society; where is my appreciation? When presenting the coalition agreement, it really hit me to see that we are not unplugging the AOW. That AOW stays prosperous. However, an image was created here as if this decoupling were happening. You might want to look at a debate and think: I'm already feeling lonely, I may not always be appreciated, I'm worried about my income and politics is going to disconnect it. It's a technical term, but in fact it's structurally impoverished, because you don't go along with wages. It would scare me. At the same time, we are sitting here with financial spokesmen and we all know that this link is maintained. We've all read the coalition agreement. There's no decoupling at all. What we do alone is raise the minimum wage once. That doesn't raise the AOW. But the clutch an sich stays in place. In fact, the coalition agreement also includes measures to boost the purchasing power of people with AOW. The coalition agreement includes an elderly discount and a general tax rebate. There are several measures in it. The appreciation Mrs van der Plas seeks for the elderly is reflected in this coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u74	Well, I don't think the AOWs would agree with that at all. Is the VVD aware that the decoupling is simply laid down by law? So there just needs to be a new bill to the Chamber to achieve this. Then it has to be dealt with again by the House of Representatives and then it has to be dealt with by the House of Representatives, where the coalition has no majority. As soon as the minimum wage goes up and the AOW doesn't, in this case, I think AOW'ers can go straight to court because of legal inequality. Is the coalition even aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u75	I'm gonna take one step back. We started this debate by saying that we should not talk in technocratic terms. Then we are talking about links in this debate. But if you're sitting at home with an AOW and following this debate, you just have one interest: I want my income to be safe and I'm not going backwards. That is what we are trying to do here. That can be via coupling, that can also be through tax reduction, that can also be a headline on the AOW. These are all technical terms, but the general principle is that we agree that this group should not be forgotten and that the purchasing power for this group should be maintained. In the debate on the declaration of government, we even tabled a motion on this subject, which I believe was unanimously adopted in order to take account of the purchasing power of the elderly, which is also to be maintained and sought together. So I think we're pulling on the same side of the rope here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u76	But that's not an answer to my question. I'll give you the profit warning that we need a new bill for this. If that does not happen, the elderly can simply go to court because we do not comply with the law. My question is: is the coalition aware of this? This is going to be a big problem; I can give it to you on a note right now. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u77	I'll give you that right away. Of course, there must be a law, and we must discuss this with each other. I believe that this law should include all the measures that are seen on the AOW, as well as on the minimum wage and benefits. We have to debate this whole package together. There must be a proper legal basis. We are simply going to discuss this with each other, where we have to test: is it working well at the bottom of the line for the groups that we are trying to move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u78	So you can guarantee the elderly with AOW in the Netherlands that there are about 3.5 million people in the Netherlands that there will be no increase in the minimum wage without the AOW rising for the time being? You can guarantee that? So that doesn't happen until after the House of Representatives has debated this matter and it went to the Upper House? Then it may also take a very long time before that minimum wage can be raised. That could take a long time. Does the VVD realize that that's just gonna take a lot of time? Isn't it better to say, "You know, we're just gonna cut out on this miserable plan, because that's way too much hassle?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u79	For all the policy changes we make here, you have to change the law. This means that you have a debate on this in the Lower House and in the Upper House. In all honesty, I don't quite understand the question. I'm really trying to understand what you're trying to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u80	I think I was clear, but, yes, some of the other people don't understand me. Of course, every policy change requires a legislative change, but it is so easy to disconnect the AOW. Personally, I do not think there has been any thought at all as to what consequences it actually has, what it brings about, if you let minimum wages go up. That is what I want to give the coalition as a whole. Too easy to think about: we're gonna do this, we're gonna do it or we're gonna do it like this. But it can't be done at all, because the law says it can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u81	I'm gonna stick with it: you can change laws, too. This must be done democratically and by majority, and that is why you are holding debates with each other here. But again, I very much agreed with the start of your interruption. Let us communicate not only in technical terms, but also in terms of the general principle that we stand for all groups in society, workers but also older people, and let us strive together to maintain purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u82	It is really scandalous how this VVD person here pretends to care about the elderly. Since the VVD came into power, you have completely abandoned the elderly, the pensioners, in this country. For 12 years, supplementary pensions have not been indexed. This means a 25% loss of purchasing power on their pensions. In addition, you have indeed indexed the AOW. Now there is a bonus under the statutory minimum wage and you say that pensioners do not participate. We do index for the welfare recipients, who do nothing, namely the minimum wage for hardworking Netherlands, but not for the elderly who have worked their whole lives. They're not in. Because of the VVD you have left the elderly in the cold for ten or twelve years and they have only fallen backward in their income. And if that is not enough, you have also broken down the care of the elderly; the nursing homes, shelters and so on. You should be ashamed of the way the VVD has dealt with our elders. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u83	That's a nice speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u84	I welcome the affirmative answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u85	I heard Mr Tony van Dijck laughing and I actually thought that he was not taking his own interruption very seriously. But let me give you a serious answer. You can blame me for everything, which is also part of the debate in this House. You may address me to all kinds of problems that we may be directly or indirectly responsible for, even if there is nothing we can do about them, because of course we are not talking about indexing and second pillar pensions. Mr Van Dijck knows that too. You may address me to that. But what I am sorry about is that everyone who is watching the debate gets the impression that nothing is being done about their retirement. Tony van Dijck knows that. I know Mr. Tony van Dijck. He reads through all those pieces, he loves the Central Planning Bureau, he goes through all those tables, he looks at details. So he knows we're doing more with the AOW than just the clutch. We're also lowering taxes on those groups. If I make it very technical: it is in the general tax rebate and in the old-age discount. That also helps increase purchasing power. And if I'm an AOW'er myself, I don't really care what button I turn, as long as my wallet stays safe. Mr Van Dijck raises a picture here as if all these elderly people were being cut short. That's just not true. I don't mind you putting me away, but I'm sorry you're pulling all these people's wool over your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u86	I was talking about ten years of VVD in power. For ten years, the elderly have checked. Their pensions are not indexed and you have something to do with that, because you determine the calculation of the ftk and the calculation rate. Because of the VVD, these pensions are not indexed, while the pension pots are up to 2,000 billion full. There's a lot of money in the pension jars. In other words, you are consistently abandoning the elderly. And now we also have an inflation rate of 7.3%. The elderly are also in the CPB's pass-through of your plans at zero, with an inflation rate of less than 3%. Inflation is more than double. In other words, the elderly are going backwards and you are not compensating for it. If you say, "I'm gonna make up for that, I'm gonna hold you to it and we'll talk about it in the spring paper."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u87	We are going to have this debate in the spring paper anyway. In fact, in the debate on the declaration of government, we tabled a motion together, and I believe that the PVV has also voted in favour of looking closely at the purchasing power of older people and how we can compensate for purchasing power. We agree on that here. So I do not quite understand why Mr Van Dijck is trying to evoke the image here as if we disagree. We have tabled a motion as a whole Chamber, and voted in favour, to guard that purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u89	It is not to be miserable, but I would like to read out the statement by Mrs Hermans, the chairman of Mr Heinen's group. I want to understand whether he fully agrees with that or whether he has just come back to that in the little debate with Mrs Den Haan. Mrs Hermans said: "In the coalition agreement we made agreements to give everyone a plus, a positive and balanced purchasing power picture. I instruct the Cabinet to come forward with proposals to achieve this." Everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u90	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u91	Does Mr Heinen fully support this, or is it, as you have just discussed with Mrs Den Haan, that it cannot apply to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u92	Of course I support that. In fact, it should be up to all of us to protect people's wallets and strive for a higher purchasing power. The question of how we get there, of course, is always a political debate. Do you do that through extra economic growth, or through redistribution? These are fine political debates that we can have with each other, but at the bottom of the line we agree that purchasing power must remain unchanged. This applies both to the elderly and to the workers, to all groups. That is what we call a balanced, positive purchasing power picture. We have tabled a motion on this, and we are all in favour of it. Of course I still support that. The debate with Mrs Den Haan dealt with the following. You also know the purchasing power plates and the thousands of point clouds. Of course, you can never guarantee that you will always be right on top of every point. But you're aiming for that balanced purchasing power picture. However, Mr Alkaya also knows that you count with medians and income groups, and approximate. We can't, thank God, call 17 million people and ask: can I see your housekeeping book to make sure it's at the bottom of the line in the plus? As a government, you always have to see that approximate. You always want that to be a good thing, of course. That's how we've been working here for years. Mr Alkaya is always here, every year, behind these purchasing power calculations and behind that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u93	Well, that's clear. Of course, we can agree on the technique quite quickly. But "everyone" means all groups in society. Older people must therefore also improve, even if inflation continues to rise as it does now. So we can make sure that this cabinet, if it is right, together with the VVD, also improves the purchasing power of older people. It is, of course, ridiculous that the AOW should be disconnected from the minimum wage. Mr Heinen talks about rhetoric all the time. But it is true that my final question to Mr Heinen is that if a new general old age law is sent to the Chamber, the AOW will not be 70% of the minimum wage, but much lower? Surely that law will mean that it will be structurally less than 70%? There's no other way, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u94	Mr Alkaya is now asking for an appreciation of a law to come to the Chamber. I just can't give it to you yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u95	I think it's still a matter of communication. You're just saying that the AOW isn't being disconnected. In my view, there will be a legislative change in which the AOW will be disconnected once, and then re-connected. That is not to grant the increase in the minimum wage to the AOWs. That can indeed be done in our country, but the question is whether that law will be passed. Of course, that's a second. Now you say that we have tabled a motion together and that we all support the idea that pensioners should not lose their purchasing power. Quite frankly, I don't really care how you handle it, as long as you take care of it. But I would like to give you one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u96	Give it to Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u97	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Give it to Mr. Heinen. Communication is really very important. There is an incredible unrest among pensioners. I would like to ask you next time, when you have plans like this again, I really hope that you will not have them anymore to make sure that communication is simply clear. This gives rise to a great deal of unnecessary unrest. In addition, I would like to ask Mr Heinen one more time. As a financial spokesman, I really expect you to be very hard on this group, especially this group, which has been lagging behind for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u98	Once again, we agree, especially with regard to the part about communication. I would like to point out, however, that communication always comes from two sides. If things are not going well on our side, then we really must strive to do better next time. But I would also point out that if other parties point to something which is not right, and is very full of the ether, there is, of course, a responsibility there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u99	Mr President, Mr Heinen is quite right. That's why I want to make that statement here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u100	Fine. You're all in agreement. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u101	Mr President, a personal fact and perhaps a misunderstanding. Mr Heinen indicated that he had not been to the technical briefing at the CBP. But he is now asking whether the public debt is 75% or 92%. Technical briefing, transfer of government agreement: it just says "present" to me. Was this you or was this another Eelco Heinen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u102	We have a lot of technical briefings. I thought you were referring to the technical briefing on Monday and I was not present. If this was another technical briefing, I'd probably be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u103	No, no. I referred to the technical briefing of the Central Planning Bureau on the transfer of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u104	I would like to ask you, through the President, whether you can indicate a date for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u105	That was January 11th and this is about the...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u106	If you look like this gentleman, then... But for the record, it seemed like I was seeing something that wasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u107	We're gonna get the agendas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u108	Maybe he looked a little less tired there. Find the differences. But I think I was there. What I referred to was last Monday's meeting, because I was not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u109	So you had an alibi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u110	You don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u111	I note that with his speaking time Mr Heinen has moved up to 2 minutes 37, but he has been standing here for 50 minutes. Mrs Maatoug, you can't get enough of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u112	And we've got to go all night. We'll take our time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u113	Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u114	Mr President, I have a question on behalf of the ordinary hard-working people who set the alarm at 5 p.m. and sometimes even at 4 p.m. Often they can't take it and have to take the car to work. Some of those ordinary hardworking people are watching this debate and they apprehend me: can you ask the VVD what they think of box 2 and the fact that so many people use the space we all allow to pay as little tax as possible? For example, they also ask why we do not restrict the BOR every time. Isn't that one of the solutions to cover it within the same domain? The hardworking people would be very happy about that, because that means that they will contribute as much as those hardworking ordinary Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u115	Mr President, I do like the format that people can look at this debate and ask questions. Mrs Maatoug will read it and I will answer it. It's gonna be a really long night. I'll tell you what. But I answer those questions with love. Mrs Maatoug refers to the BOR. It just says in the coalition agreement that we're gonna... That BOR is just about family businesses. I know that a number of parties want to tax more heavily. I'm not from that line. I don't think you should burden it any more. You have to deal with abuse. That is also the point of departure in the coalition agreement, and these plans must be sent to the Chamber. Then we have to look at it. In box 2 there are also very normal entrepreneurs. Hardworking Dutch are not only employed. It is also entrepreneurs who create jobs, income and jobs. They're also in box 2. If I had to sum up this debate, I would do so as follows. There is actually too easy in generic terms to talk about groups, without looking at what's under the hood. We talk about wealth, while there's just people in it with a house and a pension. We're talking about purchasing power groups, when it's just older people with no income. You're talking now, Mrs Maatoug, about box 2. I think a lot of Dutch people have no idea what that is, but in the end they are just entrepreneurs who provide jobs and income here. Then when we see what time we're coming from, it's a very difficult time. I'm rounding up, Mr. Chairman! We are coming out of the corona crisis, and the cost of it has been really hard on all those entrepreneurs. I understand from Mrs Maatoug that we need to burden these entrepreneurs more heavily and then she will not find me on her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u116	And I, too, am going to give my final interruption to Mr Heinen, Mr President. We are getting somewhere now, and I am serious about this: we do this very often in politics. You have done this a few times over the last hour, I say to you through the President. You take a fact and say: the whole group is a small entrepreneur. And then you create a false contradiction to something else. And in this case you say to me: oh, you are creating a false contradiction. I will choose my words more precisely. I think it's good feedback. It would perhaps make the rest of the hours of this debate more beautiful. Let's see where we can take the level. My question is just like last week in the debate: when we look at the burden on wealth and profits, we have seen it fall over the last 20 years. We also see the expansion in box 2 and the BOR. Deductions are increasingly being used. We're seeing an increase in savings, for example. We're even seeing baby bv's. It's all used. Yeah, you should google that, Mr. Chairman, and the people at home. Then you will see that they are offered. I'm going to a conclusion, Mr. Chairman. We see reports from our own officials about abroad and they say: we see an enormous amount of arbitration, limit that. When I ask that question, I get back: working people. My question is: why are you fighting so hard to ensure that we all allow people who have a lot of power not to contribute as much as ordinary people? Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask: are you willing to look at that box 3 problem to box 2 and the BOR in the restriction? That is my question to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u117	I agree with the first part, with the second part not. The condition is that it is a restriction. When you look at taxation, I think it always starts with the question: where are problems? If there's abuse, you have to deal with it. There are also many proposals in the coalition agreement to tackle abuse. But now I'm being asked if I'm willing to look at something when the condition is a pre-limit. Then you're not seriously looking at a problem. Shall I start my speech, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u118	Well, you've been on for two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u119	Oh, well, then I'm almost at the end of my speech, because we only have four minutes to speak. So I've only got a minute and a half left. I was also going towards the rounding. This brings me to my last point. How will we decide this spring on all the windfalls and setbacks? We've talked a lot about this. The Council of State recommended that the Chamber be more actively involved in the main decision-making process. I very much agree with that, especially now that the setbacks seem to be piling up as well. Last year I also tabled a motion calling on the cabinet to provide more insight into the budgetary considerations made by the cabinet. I am therefore concerned not only with where the money is going, i.e. the financial claims granted, but also with where the money is not going, i.e. the rejected financial claims. The latter is just as important to have a good debate here, as we are doing now, namely a debate on the political choices made by the cabinet. I am therefore curious to see what is going on with the previous cabinet's commitment to send proposals to the Chamber to make this more transparent. Spring note's coming up. This will be a very important spring note, also in view of all the issues that have been raised here in the debate and which come back to it. I think it is a good thing that we are discussing this well and transparently with each other. And of course all the dilemmas must also be outlined, because of course you cannot compensate for everything. I think it is good that we discuss this with each other in all transparency. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I said earlier that it is a good thing that we are a thrifty country, but also that we should not be stingy, especially in view of the great challenge facing the Netherlands. After years of crisis, we now have a chance to invest heavily in an even safer, prosperous and cleaner country, in a fine neighbourhood that stays good and gets better. With this coalition agreement in hand, I want to work on it over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u120	Fine. Thank you. You stood here for 56 minutes and we still have 17 speakers to go. Mr Alkaya of the SP speaks. The people who still have to catch the last train, I would like to consider something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u121	Mr. Chairman. The Rutte IV cabinet had a false start for several reasons. That is not surprising if you want to spend tens of billions and manage to harm the whole country at the same time. The whole country's turning in. Does the Minister of Finance not think it reasonable that, if the government spends so much community money, people expect them to make financial progress? And doesn't she think it's reasonable that people expect the bill to be shared fairly, with a fair contribution from people who can miss it? So neither of this is happening. Only in 2025 can our Tax Administration introduce a tax that we all want, namely a tax on return on capital. This is true, while the Chamber has been demanding such a tax since 2015. All over the public sector there is a lack of maintenance, too few people, too old computer systems. So that is also the case with the Tax Administration. The irony is that Rutte IV runs into obstacles that caused Rutte I and Rutte II. There have been cuts for years and too little investment in what is all of us. Against this backdrop, the government has chosen to continue to cut back on a number of important provisions, for example in the care of the elderly and in the care of young people. If nothing has been learned from the past, I ask the Minister. Or is the Cabinet prepared to refrain from these cuts? Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, billions of Community money are put into funds, to transfer the money from it to companies in the coming years. It is so much money that a new budget ceiling is being set, a budget ceiling for investment, in addition to the ceilings we already had. The polluter pays principle therefore seems to be permanently abandoned. The polluter gets money. The polluter gets a subsidy. That's the new credo of Rutte IV. Does the cabinet consider this new policy fair? The SP doesn't think so. Does the government think it is fair that future generations should be burdened with the account of this perverse policy, even though they are not even compensated for the failed neoliberal experiment of the debt system? The SP has always been against this debt system and now wants fair compensation to prevent a generation of debt. 1 billion is simply much and far too little for that. Is the government going to be generously compensating these young people instead of giving them the cheap tip that is now in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u122	Just on the point that we do not allow the polluter to pay and that large companies only get money. I really do not think that is enough of what has been agreed and how European climate policy works. Does Mr Alkaya, for example, know how high the CO price is at the moment when he looks outside? Does he know that we, the Netherlands, have already put a head on the European CO levy in recent years with a marginal tax, so that companies have to pay even more in the Netherlands if they emit too much? Does Mr Alkaya know how incredibly complicated it is at this time for, for example, greenhouse growers, I am just saying what to electrify? And does he know that if they then electrify, so switch from natural gas to more electricity and sustainable heat, they will have to pay extra storage on renewable energy? I don't know how much. In short, we allow companies and certainly SMEs to contribute a lot to making our country more sustainable at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u123	I am not concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises either. I am concerned about the large, polluting industry, which is faced with a tax that exists on paper, but which does not generate any money at all. It's not in the budget either. It gets zero, because if companies become sustainable and they get a lot of funding to make them more sustainable, then they're not going to pay anything. Nor do I doubt that it can have the desired effect, namely that companies will become more sustainable. Only, I think it is unfair that you do not impose a flat CO tax on them, because everyone agrees that the polluter must pay. In addition, experts agree that it is also more cost-effective. It'll pay more if you price it. In addition, you can subsidise, but it is more profitable if you price it than if you only subsidise it. This cabinet only subsidises it and it doesn't price it, because it yields zero euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u124	I know that the SP is not a big fan of the European Union, but to lock you up like this and to impose a national flat CO price in the country, on top of a European system... That European CO prize is really biting right now. It really hurts in companies. The fact that the SP prefers to have the employment of Tata Steel, Chemelot or Dow Chemical in Zeeland just over the border in Flanders or in Germany in the Ruhr area is disappointing. Because that's what happens when you put a flat carbon price on top of this. Please let us conduct smart, just climate policy. Then it is very wise to give companies in the Netherlands the chance to take that step in the coming years and, of course, to give them an incentive to go hard enough with this marginal CO levy. But please, in the way the cabinet proposes, you keep the jobs in the Netherlands and give our industry a head start from big to small. Moreover, large-scale users are going to pay more, as the coalition agreement also states.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u125	It cannot be both true what Mr Grinwis says. First of all, he says they're already paying and second of all, if we're gonna make them pay, they're gonna cross the border. So it can't be both true. I say to Mr Grinwis: if you want to pursue fair and just climate policy, look at the SP programme. That's just fine. We do not have as many subsidies as this coalition stands, but we also have targeted subsidies to help companies sustainably. Besides, they have to pay for it themselves. So this cabinet doesn't do that. It does not place the bill on the polluters. It only gives Community money to the polluters and will charge future generations. I think that's unfair. Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday I walked with thousands of young people in Amsterdam claiming their rights. Then I'm back to my plea for fair compensation for the debt generation. On Saturday I will demonstrate with thousands of elderly people against leaving the AOW at the minimum wage. Young and old are therefore connected in the distrust in this cabinet, in the distrust in Rutte-IV. But the most serious things for our country will not even come from this cabinet, because they come from the European Union. The European Central Bank provides negative interest rates in our country and inflation. These are also forms of taxation, but unfocused and undemocratic. Does this new Minister of Finance of the Netherlands dare to speak on this, unlike her predecessor? In addition, the European Central Bank is developing a digital euro that is going to have immense consequences for all of us. Will the new cabinet be committed to good democratic control of this? Or are these far-reaching decisions still being made behind closed doors? Mr. Chairman. These are just a few examples. We have many debates here as democratically elected representatives of the Netherlands, but how relevant are these debates when more and more decisions about us, about our lives and our country are taken outside our borders, and our government is fine with that? I therefore call on the new cabinet and this new finance minister to make a much more active effort to strengthen our national democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u126	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about the opening note of this cabinet. It actually contains all the financial frameworks and a lot of tables, but ultimately it is about, at least as far as D66 is concerned, how we achieve the ambitions of the government agreement in a good way. Last Monday we had a round table, which I think was the confusion, because Mr Heinen was not there with economists at the time. They actually said this. We believe that the government is investing heavily in combating climate change and nitrogen, education and defence. Of course, you can discuss the exact design, but it is good that you draw the wallet for these kinds of major societal challenges, which often extend beyond one cabinet period. If you look at what that does for the state finances, see that that is also justified. Yes, the government debt in the sums increases to 2060, but you do deal with the climate debt, which is not in those sums. And the returns on investment in education, which we all know is making you more productive, are not in those sums. I would like to ask the Minister once again to talk to the Central Planning Office about this. I think that's a loss. Mr President, I see that Mr Azarkan has something to say. Of course, that raises the question of how to make sure that you also spend that money well, that you get value for money. That's what I want to talk about, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u128	Mr Azarkan, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u129	Mr President, I understand that very well, because that will probably be a little easier for Mr Van Weyenberg. I have another question for Mr Van Weyenberg. In the passing on of his plan, which served as a basis for the elections, I must congratulate him, because they have done a great job. Yet there were great ambitions: wealth and profits, 15.3 billion. There were 21 points that D66 wanted to enter. The political leader then spoke at a meeting and said: we need to be more honest about it; in particular, we need to be fair about money; people with wealth must also pay more, above 1 million so much, above 2 million 2%... Anyway, 21 proposals. Can Mr Van Weyenberg indicate how many of these 21 proposals from his election programme have been implemented in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u130	That's a long introduction, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna give you two answers. The first concerns Mr Azarkan's underlying question: do I find wealth inequality a problem? The answer to that question is: yes, I do. His second question is: have you realized everything you would like to do yourself in this coalition agreement? I come to your question, Mr. Azarkan. You needed an even longer introduction. I'll tell you through you, Mr. Chairman. I see we're doing a few things. A number of things have already been done by the previous cabinet. The BIK is gone. I do not hear anyone here anymore about that, but you were all fiercely opposed to it and it has been deleted. Corporate tax has already risen in September. Tax avoidance has been tackled. More tax avoidance is being addressed in this cabinet. There will be a tax based on real return. That's why you're gonna pay more if you make a lot of returns with a lot of money. So it's a big asset that invests very actively. We're abolishing the jubelton. But Mr Azarkan is right. I would have liked to move on, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u131	I really would have asked another question. I'll just repeat it without any introduction. My question was: how many of those 21 points in the election programme, where D66 wanted to tax the assets and profits by 15.3 billion, and the promise made by the political leader, were realised in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u132	Well, let's get a little philosophical at first. I always find it fascinating that if you go into the elections with something and then realize a part of it, you obviously haven't kept your promise. No, we have fought for our commitment, including in the composition of the coalition, which I am very proud of: very pro-European, a lot of money for education, a lot of money for the climate, but also, above all, a very ambitious goal to go to 60% reduction in CO. Of course I didn't achieve everything. I am going to disappoint you or perhaps surprise you: we will tell you more about what we stand for here, including in coalition talks, and we will often come back to the fact that we have not achieved everything that we have said we are fighting for here. Then your question on the number of points. I did not count them, but something tells me that Mr Azarkan prepared this quiz well today and knows the answer himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u133	This is your last interruption, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u134	No, I'm just really asking a question. Voters of course also voted for D66 through that story of new leadership, more fair praise of people with an income from wealth, and fairer sharing. I just have a really simple question. It's not prepared. It's not a quiz. I see 21 proposals in the taxation of capital and profits at 15.3 billion. I see in the coalition agreement that there is 100 million less, so there is exactly 100 million less burdens. My question isn't a quiz. How many of those 21 points that Mr Van Weyenberg has taken up, has he realised? Does he know that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u135	I told you, I didn't count them. But you say 21. I can see, for example, that we are tackling abuse in the BOR. That's what it says, because that's one of those points. It's got the jubelton in it. The Vpb's in there. I admit immediately: more than what happened last September. It says tax avoidance. We have already done things in September, and now it is in the coalition agreement. I would like to say one thing about that amount. You're right. I would have liked to get more out of that domain to reduce the burden on labour. If I had 76 seats, or if I had 76 seats with Mr Azarkan's party, we would have done so. I can see, for example, that we are tackling constructions in this company's succession facility and using its proceeds for things that I am not against for entrepreneurs. In that sense, therefore, I think we should be a little careful just to look at the number below the line. This includes a number of measures which are also included in the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u136	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u137	I was talking about these major investments in education and in the major transitions in the areas of climate and nitrogen. They need to be properly spent. We've been talking a lot about the funds lately. A motion has also been adopted which says that it must be spent efficiently and effectively. That's what I'm for, because that's the only way you're gonna achieve what you're doing: less CO, less nitrogen, so we can restore nature and we can build again. But I would like to ask the Cabinet to be swift and effective. These ambitions must be met quickly. The climate does not wait for us to think about fund systems for two years. I therefore have the same question for this Minister. If the Minister for Climate and Energy wants to make good tailor-made arrangements before now, then it is not necessary to wait for the debate on funds. Of course, there will have to be proper parliamentary control. That's absolutely necessary. But there's gotta be another way. I would also like to ask the Minister to look more broadly at the role of the Ministry of Finance. The people who have been around The Hague for a while know that sometimes the joke is that they answer the phone with "no" to say that something cannot be done. When you read the Start note, sometimes there is a bit of thinking in that every euro that leaves the treasury is a bit melancholy checked by the Ministry of Finance: another euro gone! But if you spend that euro well on education, defence and combating climate change, it is important. So this minister, in her role and with her ministry, should not only be the neat treasurer that is important, and it is a good thing that we have it, but also the driver. So not only say no, but also call and say: is it getting any better, and can I still help to make sure that we do it efficiently, strikingly, quickly and decisively? The ambitions of this cabinet are great, and we do not even have very much time to live up to them. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the spring note. Many of the ambitions are still in the 'additional post', as it is technically called. The money is in the Ministry of Finance, waiting for the plans to be drawn up. It will probably not work, but in my dream world, as much as possible will soon be transferred to the budgets of the ministries that are really working on it in the Spring Paper. If it is right, they have submitted good plans, so that the Ministry of Finance can also transfer them those budgets. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how we are going to ensure that as much of that money as possible is properly spent on all the important goals of the coalition agreement as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Of course we must talk about the burden side, about inflation, about Mr Heerma's motion on pensioners and purchasing power and about box 3. There the Secretary of State for Finance spoke earlier about the fact that in principle charges are covered by charges. He named box 3 and referred a bit to box 2. Furthermore, we also have Mrs Marijnissen's motion for a broader reflection on property inequality, which I believe the whole Chamber has voted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u139	May I have one more sentence, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u140	One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u141	I would like to draw attention to the municipal finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u143	This one I provoked. Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Is the cabinet prepared to see how we can achieve more stability? We are going to have another debate on, for example, youth care, but the point is that it is also stable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u144	Very good. Thank you. Mr Alkaya has one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u145	Last Saturday, thousands of young people were protesting at the Museumplein in Amsterdam for fair compensation, because they belong to the unlucky generation, to one generation that has not received a basic grant. The great absentee there was D66. The other coalition parties were there and faced with a lot of booing. But at least they were there. They were able to answer the question whether they were prepared to offer fair compensation to these young people. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg is therefore exactly that: is Mr Van Weyenberg prepared to offer a fair compensation to that unlucky generation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u146	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u147	For starters, my party was there. Our spokesperson Jeanet van der Laan was at that demonstration and spoke to many students there. Maybe not on stage, but she was on the field to have a conversation there. Furthermore, this is indeed the search for good compensation for all of us. In doing so, we must also take account of the fact that the care of students is much wider than just the financial system of the loan system, which I do not want to change. That concern is also about finding a house and a job and about the skipped flex contracts. This generation gets much more for her choosing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u148	Yes. Mr Alkaya's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u149	It's fine that D66 is also thinking about all the other things. Of course, with fair compensation, you have not solved all the problems of all young people. But it remains to be seen that they have been greatly overwhelmed by an experiment that they could not do anything about and that they now have extra high debts. They are right to demand fair compensation. No compensation, just a compensation for what they'd received otherwise. If D66 isn't prepared to offer that, if the D66 spokesperson here thinks so, just say so! Say: We are not prepared to offer a fair compensation. Then all these kids know exactly what D66 is going to do for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u150	I didn't say I wasn't willing to do that at all. I just said that money was made available for that. If there's anyone I have faith in to have that conversation with students properly, it's Robbert Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u151	D66 is very concerned with the climate and the nitrogen event, but we all remember the nightmare with the Mitsubishi Outlander. We've given 6 billion grants. We have actually paid 20 times too much for every tonne of CO emissions that has been generated. At that time, I think you were a tax spokesman, so you know these debates. Now billions of subsidies are being sprinkled again, or at least they are being put in place to scatter. Does D66 actually know how much is already available in the climate budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u152	First of all, what was the problem with the Mitsubishi Outlander? We were funding it like it was an electric car. People with a tank pass then fueled gasoline or diesel. Well, then, of course, it doesn't make any sense at all. What we're doing now, and I'm a little proud of it, is much more focused on stimulating smaller electric cars. That's what I'm saying, looking back at a little trip I was allowed to take myself. You can't refuel it anymore. I think we solved that problem. Furthermore, Mr Van Dijck said that we are already spending a lot of money on it, but we are not yet achieving the goals. We want to achieve a target of 60%, and more is needed for that. That is not just money for companies, which Mr Alkaya is talking about. It is certainly also money for energy infrastructure, for example. Now I hear that everywhere like a giant bottleneck. I'm kind of worried about that. We all want to go to electricity from solar panels and from windmills at sea. But we still need the power lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u153	Clear. Then Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u155	I am your servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a somewhat harsh statement from Willem Drees. "Not everything can and certainly not all at once." That seemed appropriate to me for this Start note. I would like to address three issues in my speech. The first theme is the choices that are being made, the political direction. Yesterday, together with Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks, we presented a counter-budget. The second issue is whether the pendule here in The Hague and budgetary policy is going a little too far. The third concerns the efficiency of public expenditure. Is the money well spent? First of all, the political view. We have shown that if you really make fundamentally different choices and dare to make than this cabinet does, then this coalition does, you can achieve a lot of goals better. Indeed, you can substantially increase the purchasing power that many people are concerned about at this time of high inflation. The cabinet has an increase of zero. This is because a tax reform is not being chosen in which you allow the polluters to pay more rather than pay more and the wealthy to contribute more. We show that you can and that you can really achieve substantial purchasing power gains. You can then link the minimum wage to the AOW and raise the minimum wage to €14. If, as the Prime Minister said in the debate, you put aside some ideological differences when you talk about living and add an amount to it, it is very good that the landlord's tax is abolished, and if you then disagree on the direction, it costs a lot of money, without ensuring that the rents remain affordable or that you opt for a spatial setting with affordable start-up homes and elderly homes. If you buy off ideology a little bit in all areas, then the bill goes very high and gives you too little political direction. That is my main criticism of the coalition agreement. We show in our progressive opposition agreement that it can be more social, fairer and greener. Mr. Chairman. The second theme is the pendulum. When I came into the Chamber, there was a lot of discussion about sustainability. There was an ageing population. "Are public finances still sustainable?" In the long run, a figure of 29 billion became sacred. That had to be cut back. I thought that was an exaggeration at the time. Why do you have to cut that 29 billion in one period? But now we seem to have landed all the way on the other side. That's why I started with that quote. It doesn't matter how much you spend anymore. It just doesn't matter anymore. The interest rate is low and the 92% of the CPB is all bullshit. Of course it is not exactly 92% in 2060, but the direction does matter. The sustainability is completely out of control with these measures taken by the cabinet. This is because they do not want to make the choices in the tax system. This is not because there is no need for additional expenditure. That's because they're not covered. The bill is passed on to other generations. I ask the Minister to respond to the Council of State, which says: where are the budget anchors? The previous minister made.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. There was nothing he could do about corona, but there was no other way to tie it up. I call on this Minister to pursue sound budgetary policy and also to be clear about when it derails. You can say that it is only temporary expenditure now and that the CPB is not doing it honestly, I do not think that is such a strong argument anyway, but it is not the case that there will never be a temporary expenditure for the next 40 years. Then what do you want to do with it? Mr. Chairman. Then there's efficiency. A simple question to illustrate: was the Wopke-Wiebes fund such a huge success that two new funds need to be set up? Is that really the best way to use the money? I think it is a good thing that money is being spent on these targets, but the real problem with nitrogen lies with a number of farmers who have a lot of emissions. Buy that one right out. Aren't you much cheaper than the 25 billion? If, for example, you do not allocate EUR 5 billion for a nuclear power plant and still tax the polluters a little more, can it not be for much less money than the EUR 35 billion that is earmarked? That's what we're supposed to be looking out for, isn't it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u157	Thank you. Then Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u158	Mr. Chairman. Over the past ten months, I have regularly asked myself the question of what is financially sensible policy in today's reality and in the future. Do you choose substantial incidental expenditure to be able to take major steps towards societally relevant challenges? Or do you choose to bury risk-avoiding and maybe stick your head in the sand for what's happening outside? We chose the first one. If you choose, you'll inevitably get comments. It's always too much or too little. But if you don't choose, what do you do in politics? By the way, it turns out how you look at choices, also a matter of perspective. If you take the CPB overcalculation, you can see it for the CDA unthinkable scenario of a 92% long-term sovereign debt. If you look at other research reports, such as Rabobank's, then investments lead to wealth growth with a government debt of around 5% to 6% in the long term. We are alert to all these signals, but we have also decided to adopt an attitude of 'the shoulders underneath, we have problems to solve'. Pots of money don't solve problems yet. As a group, we will be very critical of how we are going to spend that money. That requires discipline and we expect it from this minister. Having a lot of resources could lead to the reflex "money-seeking project." We need to show something to the outside world, so let's move the first billions quickly. The CDA wants clear spending proposals with parliamentary approval before the money is spent. We expect the Minister to play an active, cross-domain supervisory role in this. A role that we have often called attention to, but in which we have been told each time that each department itself is responsible. As far as we are concerned, that does not apply to these huge amounts of incidental resources. What is the Minister's view of this role? Within spending proposals, sufficient attention should be paid to where the work is to be done, often in municipalities and provinces. We have to offer them financial security in front, not tasks without money. I would also like to draw attention to local authorities in a broader financial context. It has been a discussion for decades and now it is finally in an agreement: long-term financial security. The Minister for the Interior, in consultation with these authorities, indicated without prejudice where to look at the issue. My question is whether this Minister has the same attitude. Mr. Chairman. We are also faced with an extra challenging financial context: unprecedented inflation. The cost to citizens is rising. Some say it's wiser to spend it here and now instead of putting money into future challenges. In our view, this is a little too easy, because avoiding problems is an increase in the number of problems. The current context means, above all, that we have to play chess on several boards at the same time and that makes it more complicated. In the government's plans, residents improved in purchasing power. We're not gonna make it now. In the spring paper, we will have to make serious efforts to put forward proposals to prevent families from getting into financial difficulties. And we're not gonna make it with just money from the government. More buttons will have to be turned. For example, how does the Minister look at "taking the foot off the gas pedal" in ECB buy-back programmes, which DNB talks about? Then there is the development of interest rates. How does the Minister view the role of employers in relation to wages? I'd like a reflection. Mr. Chairman. Financial uncertainty also involves financial awareness. Financially exciting times mean even better handling your money. This principle applies in particular to the public authorities, but also to residents. We are concerned about the low buffers of many households in relation to high indebtedness. There is often no room for setbacks. A lot of energy is already being put into financial awareness, for example by the Nibud, but my question to the Minister is whether this is enough. Are we helping people in this area enough to get through difficult financial periods? Then we see a number of sturdy posts unforeseen. Supplements and Groningen were already there, but we now also have box 3 and we see FSV coming at us. They are justified claims, but it is also budgetary disaster. On Accountability Day, we asked for a protocol to improve the provision of information on crisis spending. The CDA also wants such a protocol for dealing responsibly with unforeseen expenditure, with the proper involvement of the Chamber. Can the Minister include this in the evaluation of the accountability system? Mr President, quite frankly. Big planned expenses combined with high inflation make it an exciting chess game. Courage, trust and cooperation are needed to get over the fear that things are going wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u159	Thank you. Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks. We've got 12 more speakers to go. This goes away from your speaking time, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u160	What's money, Mr. Chairman? That is my first question to the new finance minister. Aristotle had a somewhat gloomy answer to this question. He said: "In principle money is a means to pursue good life, but in practice money quickly becomes an end in itself." Mr. Chairman. 2,300 years after that, Aristotle's interpretation still puts the finger on the sore spot, because even with this coalition it is still too often: first the money and then the content. I see too often that this coalition is throwing a lot of money at a problem, without being clear about the content behind that money. And where the cabinet is thrifty, too often the financial targets are put down before the substantive objective is clear. If I had to summarize it very well, the cabinet would be in a transition of not much money and not a vision of a lot of money, but still not a vision. Mr. Chairman. That's very risky, because then you can throw a lot of money into something, but you risk wasting taxpayers' money. For example, in the case of climate, the mix between spending, standards and pricing is not good. You also risk underexhaustment, because with a tight labour market you can't get the money spent. My question is: how is this minister going to ensure that this is prevented under Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u161	Mr Van Weyenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u162	Each party will change the balance sheet, but I find it remarkable. There is now at last a cabinet that is going for 60% CO2 reduction, but all Mrs Maatoug says is that it is all wrong. I don't really know her like that. I have a very specific question. Of course, you can always price more, but the ETS price is €100; Mr Grinwis just said that. We're doing something about the CO2 taxes. Large consumers are finally going to pay more energy taxes. We're gonna do somethin' there. You really can't say we're doing nothing there. For example, spending money goes to the energy infrastructure. Or does Mrs Maatoug say that I would like to hear that we should not spend investments in infrastructure or tailor-made arrangements for the greening of businesses? If GroenLinks does not want to invest in energy infrastructure, I would be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u163	Thank you for this question from my colleague. I have some answers. The first answer is: I am not taking it out of the coalition agreement. That was the criticism I was trying to make. If you're talking about spending, also on customization, then it's unclear where the money is going. The risk I'm drawing is the risk if you are going to subsidise without making a price. Then I'll mention a few things, because I'm just being very honest about that. We think you can do more pricing, so in that combination of measures. You can do that at the flight tax. We're seeing an expenditure on nuclear subsidies. That is a subsidy for something that we believe is not profitable. I therefore support the direction in a mix of measures. But the risk that I mark is that with such pots of money I don't see that mix well in the coalition agreement on main lines, as I read it. I fear that there will be a lot of subsidies and less pricing and standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u164	That's true. This coalition agreement is not my electoral programme either, but I am standing here with an agreement that is going to achieve 60% CO2 reduction and for which I have to make agreements with parties that may be very different. I always find it a bit easy from parties along the side to just say: it's all wrong. I'd almost say, "Where were you?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u165	I really like this. I see it as follows. We are in the middle of a debate here. This is my first debate on a very important Start note, namely on this coalition agreement. I was just working on my first question about the Compliance Act. My question is: how is this finance minister going to ensure that our taxpayers' money pursues these goals well? I hope that there will be a tightening of targets, that broad prosperity will be taken into account in these goals, and that we will be more priced and standardised in the main expenditures, i.e. in the mix, and not just in the subsidy side. So I think this could be a very nice outcome to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u166	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u167	I'm always in favour of efficiency. We can always say that things should have been a little different. Well, that's just the way it is. But here I see a cabinet without GroenLinks, but with 60% CO2 reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u168	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u169	Mr. Chairman. The challenges on the Minister's sign are considerable. Her own Start note was blown up by the CPB within a day and there are still a lot of people who fall far through zero in purchasing power. This coalition has recently been stuck with a box of 3-debacle that is going to cost billions. The tendency I see now is to talk about the shifting of money. But money isn't the problem. The underlying content is the problem. That is why I want to have this debate with the Minister. Because what does the Minister think about the fact that a lot of people in purchasing power are falling? If that's a problem, why is it being pushed forward to spring? How is it that we still have no purchasing power figures of 2022, when we asked for them last autumn? And what does the Minister think of the problems in child care? If you think it is a problem, how is it that there is no goal, development or direction of reform? If the CPB says it doesn't grant the cut, why is it in the Start note? Why is this cut in the books still on the books? What does this Minister think of us having low capital charges in the Netherlands, compared to other countries? If that is a problem, why is it being pushed forward until after a study to be carried out, when there are already many reports? And if you say it's a problem, how do you intend to tax the assets after the 3-debacle box? Finally, Mr President. First the money, then the contents. In the spring decision-making process, this has to be the other way around: first set targets, then set targets, then steer them, possibly with a budget, and then take responsibility for them. Is the Minister prepared to implement the integration of broad prosperity into the budgetary cycle in this way, including this spring? I'd like a comment on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u170	And if, of course, she also includes Aristotle in the answer, otherwise it would be incomplete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u171	Well, let's add it to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u172	Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u173	Mr. Chairman. Prima Startnota, says Marieke Blom. Ascending government debt to 91.9% or 75.3% is not a problem, says Wimar Bolhuis. Investing through these funds is wise. It has to be, otherwise future generations will pay the bill, says Arjen van Witteloostuijn. Doing nothing is much and much more precious than doing something, says Sandra Phlippen. Those were just some economists' qualifications about the Start note from last Monday's round table, in preparation for this debate. The round table meeting came by earlier. So these aren't statements from "we of toilet duck." As Minister of Finance, you would almost be shy of such qualifications on your own Start note, which is part of the coalition agreement Seeing each other, looking forward to the future. That is what the Christian Union Group wanted to do during the final coalition negotiations: look after each other. Surrounded by that single mother with a minimum income in a drafty and humid house in an old folk district, such as Moerwijk, a few kilometers away. That picture was in my mind in the negotiations. That is why my group has fought for more security of life, for more affordable housing, for the removal of the landlord's tax, for raising the minimum wage, for a multi-billion-dollar national isolation programme to help residents who can no longer pay the energy bill first to a comfortable and healthy house, whose energy bill can be paid back. Look forward to the future, to a fragile earth that we're going to take good care of again. To the countryside, where we reduce natural and nitrogen problems and give farmers clarity and perspective. To housing, where we will build communities affordable again, to neighbourhoods where young and old, poor and rich, find a home. Towards a surcharge system that disappears, so that people who depend on government are no longer ground. To a country where we value life and ensure safety. Of course, not everything that shines is gold. The first financial setbacks are already on the table. The load on power needs to be better, and fast. And inflation, imported from abroad, is sky high. In short, on her way to her first Spring note, the Minister has a number of sturdy chunks on her plate. With what commitment does she intend to meet them? Of course, there's still a lot to work out. How, for example, is the ambition to abolish the surcharges designed? How do we ensure that people who need income support no longer get lost in the future, no longer end up in debt and no longer suffer injustice? I read about first steps. What do they look like and what are the follow-up steps going to be like? We all know that the tax authorities are squeaking and cracking, but that's when it helps to put a dot on the horizon early. Is the government prepared to outline in broad terms how the tax system will be simplified and the surcharges abolished between now and 2030? Mr. Chairman. One criticism of the coalition agreement was better placed than the other. That these funds would be 60 billion euros of large grain barns that anyone could pry out of, without proper control by the House of Representatives, was of course a caricature. On the contrary, a budget fund can be monitored very well, both in terms of decision-making and in terms of efficiency, provided that we agree on good rules of the game. The Segers/Hermann motion saw that. In the agreements on page 43 of the coalition agreement, my group had the emphasis on the MIRT and the Delta Fund. Before the Delta Act, the institution law for, among other things, the Delta Fund, came into force, the then cabinet offered a dummy Delta Fund budget in 2011 so that the Chamber knew what such a budget was going to be and could look like. That was the idea behind the Segers/Herman motion. I assume the cabinet will be happy to respond to this later this year. The method of working in the Delta programme, and rather in programmes such as Space for the River, with cooperation between and joint fact finding by governments, knowledge institutions and social partners and long-term programming on the basis of clear objectives and criteria and objective analyses, also seems to me to be an inspiration for both the climate and transition fund and for the nitrogen fund. Does the Minister agree with me? And how is she gonna give her hands and feet with her colleagues? And another thing. Now that the price for energy and CO is high, the energy transition will automatically become cheaper for the taxpayer. In other words, the occasional EUR 35 billion does not, of course, have to be used up completely. Is that how the Minister sees it? In any case, spending the billions will be a major task with the current tight labour market. How does the Minister intend to prevent the threat of under-exhaustment in, for example, Rijkswaterstaat and Defense? And crucial in investing all that money well: how does it want to ensure more execution power, so that we can actually do what we have written down? My last question. How does the Minister intend to respond to risks to public finances if interest rates increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u174	I have not heard Mr Grinwis at all about something that concerns people at home, namely purchasing power concerns; that you have almost nothing to spend at the end of each month. Of course, the coalition agreement already had a big zero, and with inflation it is a total misery. What is Mr Grinwis going to propose to turn the tide? You know that I am in favour of higher capital taxes, and of polluters who have to pay. That's what you're here for. Are you going to point that in the direction of today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u175	Firstly, the Christian Union Group's signature is under the coalition agreement. Secondly, we will soon have a discussion on capital taxes. The minister's gonna work on the spring note. In addition, the various challenges will have to be met by increasing inflation, capital taxes and compensation which will still have to be paid and be covered in an orderly manner. It does not seem logical to me that such a huge task in terms of purchasing power and inflation should simply be written off in the rising public debt. In short, this is going to be a big discussion. But there is another aspect. It's inflation that comes from outside. You import natural gas. It's gonna be more expensive. How can you do something about that? By better isolating houses. That is an emphasis in this coalition agreement. So as far as I'm concerned, we're talking two words here. We have to pay close attention to the Spring paper, but we also have to work, as the weather goes, to better isolate houses, so that less energy is consumed and therefore a lower energy bill has to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u176	Mr Grinwis is right about that. I do not want to create the illusion that you can compensate for all inflation from the outside. Mrs Hermans has tabled that motion, well, I wish her every success in doing so. What is true is that if unemployment is low, the economy is growing and business profits are growing, while people are left with nothing, then that is also politically determined. You really need to move the beacons there, I think. So getting more from box 3, at power, and from the polluters, you want to get a little close to that at all. Does Mr Grinwis agree with this macroeconomic analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u177	I cannot entirely disagree with this analysis, because this analysis is partly in our own electoral programme. So I think if Mr Nijboer and I had sat at the table, a little more of this would have landed in the coalition agreement. At the same time, we have rowed with joy with the belts we had. I am standing here with a cheerful mind to defend the coalition agreement. At the same time, I also see the challenges for the Spring Note. I wish the Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u178	Wouldn't that have been a much nicer title for the coalition agreement? "Happy rowing with the belts we have." Maybe next time. We are going to listen to Mr Van Raan. Once he's laid his egg, we're gonna listen to Mr. Van Houwelingen. Then I'm gonna suspend for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't lay an egg, but I'll make a contribution, if you don't mind. Mr. Chairman. We are here today to debate the framework conditions, why the cabinet is allowed to spend money in the years to come and about the terms and conditions for drawing the wallet, or budgetary policy. There, as in other areas of the Animal Party, there must be a system change. Many preparations have been made in recent years so that the Minister can make a fresh start and make history with innovative fiscal policies. For example, the good-looking heads of the CBS publish the Monitor Brede Prosperity every year. This document, with its indicators of everything that is important, has now become an adult report and it has proved important as a track and trace of the state of the country. The Minister can imagine that we have high expectations of the Start note, because the broad concept of prosperity has now been embraced by this Chamber. These expectations are partly met. Where they can't be realized, we can push them in the back. The latter is my contribution tonight. Mr. Chairman. We read that Rutte III's old fiscal policy was directed towards the EMU balance, expenditure ceilings and that a further funding of state finances is being sustained. That's what the vast wealth is sighing under. The broad prosperity benefits from millions of notes and budgets with ceilings that really matter, such as a CO and nitrogen emission ceiling, a resource ceiling and the ambition to drop World Overshoot Day in our country later instead of earlier. Every next euro should therefore not go to human rights criminals, polluters, sick people and animal executioners. That should also be the conditions. Mr. Chairman. This Minister is on the eve of her first budget preparation. Under the old fiscal policy, this led to broad prosperity being the culmination, the resultant, of the budgetary negotiations. Now is the time when the Minister can choose to allow broad prosperity to be the starting point. Mr. Chairman. I recently got to meet this minister. It does indeed want to further the broad concept of prosperity, in conjunction with the Sustainable Development Goals, or the SDGs. I have some suggestions for this minister. Create within the Ministry of Finance a department that sets concrete multi-annual broad prosperity targets for the policy and budgetary cycle established and shared by the Council of Ministers and with the Chamber, as a kind of start-up note broad prosperity in connection with SDGs. Key any relevant policy proposal submitted to Finance not only to the budgetary frameworks, but also to the broad welfare objectives. Adjust the fiscal rules and the Sustainable Public Finance Act. Plans which do fit within the budgetary frameworks and the budgetary frameworks but do not contribute to the broad prosperity should actually go into the trash. And fourthly, to ensure that ministries properly underpin the broad prosperity of their proposals: apply Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act to this too, so that this becomes mandatory. Mrs Maatoug mentioned that as well. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is it prepared to take over one or more of these suggestions and see what can happen to them? Or is she willing to at least experiment with it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u180	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Van Houwelingen. He's the tenth speaker and the last before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u181	Mr. Chairman. From World War II until last year, the Netherlands followed a clear financial policy. The state didn't have to spend more than it got in. A budget deficit was undesirable in normal times and public debt had to be contained so that we could intervene in times of need. In the election campaign, the citizens were not asked whether this policy should be reviewed. But during the formation it appears to have turned 180 degrees. The cabinet is going to spend more money than it comes in and it's going to borrow extra, so that the government debt can rise above 90%. Why? Not to support the economy. When the economy collapsed due to the corona measures, the government started spending money to stimulate the economy. The EU was also going to do this. Now the government is going to spend extra money again, while inflation is already sky high and the labour market is tighter than ever. Meanwhile, people can't buy or rent a house and purchasing power is falling due to price increases in energy, raw materials and municipal taxes. Mr. Chairman. We really don't understand this. Why is the cabinet going to scatter tens of billions again and thus fuel inflation even further? What's going on? We believe that the new policy is a logical consequence of what you get when you mess with countries with totally different budgetary cultures in a single currency union. The ECB must keep interest rates artificially low, far too low for the Netherlands, to prevent the countries of southern Europe from going bankrupt with their colossal sovereign debt. This far too low interest rate not only creates a huge bubble in our housing market, high inflation and low pensions, but also makes it attractive for our State to build up large debts like the southern European countries. These debts have come to an end, and we have seen that, in the end, they are European debts, because all EU countries have to pay for them. The ECB will not let euro countries go bankrupt, because that means the end of the euro. For years, for example, we have been in a downward spiral of ever-increasing debt and Southern European countries that are enriching at our expense. In other words, thanks to the euro you have an expensive mortgage. Thanks to the euro there is inflation. Thanks to the euro, your pension goes up in smoke. In short, the bomb is bursting. We have been trapped for years: trapped in a currency union. For the whole of Europe, it would be best if all euro countries handled their public finances prudently. However, since the ECB and the other euro area countries guarantee each other, it is most advantageous for each individual country to incur huge debts and bleed the rest of them. We suspect that the government thinks: then we spend a lot of money and we will borrow as much as possible. However, in the Start note we could not find a clear reason for this 180 degree turn in financial policy. That is why we are asking the Minister very strongly whether there might have been another reason for the seven decades' effort to achieve a balanced budget. And if so, which one? We cannot think of it. I'm kidding. Of course we can think of it. This huge amount of debt is necessary to implement a financial reset. By putting us into debt as big as the US and southern European countries, there will only be one way out: the cancellation of all debts and the introduction of a new currency, a European digital currency. Rutte will say: we have no choice. But that's not all. All these billions are badly spent. In fact, they're being wasted and thrown over the beam. The government also wants to do this through unclear funds so that this Chamber, and therefore democracy, is largely out of play, as the General Court has already warned. That's not a good plan. We have two questions for the Minister. One. When drawing up all the plans, has the option of giving citizens more purchasing power by reducing taxes on income and expenditure rather than increasing public spending been considered? Two. If not, would the government still want to do so? Finally, Mr President. People can spend their own money better than the government can. If we are pursuing Italian financial policy, then let us be as smart as the Italians. So let us reduce the tax burden. Instead of being a relatively rich state with a lot of private poverty, as the Netherlands is, we need to build a society with rich families and a poor state, as it is in southern Europe. Because poor citizens are our own problem, but a poor state is the problem of the whole of Europe. That is how the European currency union works, and that is why we are in favour of a new one. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u182	Thank you. This was the first half of the first term of the Chamber. I'll suspend for dinner and at 8:20 p.m. we'll continue with the next speaker of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u183	I call Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already quoted the previous Liberal Prime Minister Cort van der Linden. I shall do so again because, as far as I am concerned, this statement by him has not lost any topicality. I quote: "Everyone who thinks about the proportions of man to the good of the earth will be affected by the fact that often he who works is poor, while he who goes through life empty bathes himself in abundance." In the meantime, no one can deny the gap. This one is so big that Sander Schimmelpenninck feels called and needs to point out that gap. But if, as a Chamber, we do not take the statistics of the IMF, the World Bank and the OECD to heart and do not turn them into policies, Sander can continue to make such programmes up to his retirement. For we, the two Chambers of the States-General, are in motion. We've become a walhalla of people who want to retire. Klaas Knot called us an entrepreneurial economy for a reason. Shortly and economists can write books about us how not to tax as in the Netherlands, because then the hardworking Dutchman works to bring his salary to the tax office, while the rentier here can enjoy his swissing life, because even in Switzerland you pay more taxes on wealth income than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u185	The last figures of the CBS indicate that the wealth inequality and income inequality, when taking pensions, are not at all so great. So I don't understand the gap. Sander Schimmelpenninck gets to turn me into programs until he's 80, but a retirement paradis? I don't see all those Nederbelgen coming back at all. Nor do I see any tax refugees who want to settle here because of our fantastic fiscal climate. Perhaps you could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u186	The fact that this gap is not even seen fairly is because the income that comes from wealth is not even included in the income differences. I don't know if Mr Ephraim knows that, but several economists... That's actually in my contribution later. That part won't be taken. That is one aspect. The second aspect is... It may have become a little less, but then it still seems to me handsome that the World Bank, which now describes our country as the country with the greatest wealth inequality in the world... I can't believe he just walked in on it. So I'm a little less positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u187	It makes a big difference whether to take the pensions or not. The latest figures say that the Netherlands is in the middle of the world with its gini coefficient. I understand that left-wing parties are keen to level out and take advantage of everything to keep up the fairy tale of all these gorges, but I really have to remind Mrs Gündoğan of the facts. And yes, well, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u188	I'd like to respond to that. The facts. First of all, we are not a leftist party. We are a modern centrist party. I referred to the previous Liberal Prime Minister. I don't do that for nothing, because once it was normal in the Netherlands to stand up as a liberal for those who have it less well. For example, think of the Housing Act and the Children's Act. It was Mr Treub who talked about more progressive inheritance tax and about the difference between earned income and unearned income. I can go on here for a very long time, but I have just said that in Switzerland you pay more taxes than in the Netherlands on capital. I see you looking, but yes, those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u189	Maybe in other countries, too. You pick one out, but I don't see the Nederbelgen coming back. They're just gonna sit there. Anyway, we're not gonna agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u190	Let me get the numbers. Mr. Ephraim is very keen on facts. I'll get them. They're from Eurostat. I'll check my folder in preparation for today. Let me get it. Eurostat. I can share it like this. Maybe Ali would like to share it with everyone. Belgium, overall implied tax rate on capital 2007 to 2019 35.1 percent. That's 35.1 percent. The Netherlands stands at 15.9%. I will also mention other countries: Denmark 41.9%, Germany 31.2%, France 54.2%. Will you just tell me from now on that I have my facts in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u191	Point of order, Mr President. Let's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u192	Easy, easy, easy. Otherwise, we're all gonna be mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u193	I'm getting a little... I shall go back to my speech, Mr President. Thank you. Or, as Mr Knot said, every government needs a certain amount of tax resources in order to carry out its tasks. You can lift them in different ways. The way you handle them also says something about the type of economy and the type of country you want to be. That is why Volt believes that the debate on a fair tax should be conducted. The pain is not only in the non-taxation of income from wealth. This income is also not taken into account in the statistics in order to reflect fairly the differences in income. Many economists therefore think that our income inequality is greater than we think. We must dare to investigate, we must dare to reform and we must dare to cut into our own meat if we are to get rid of the low-income economy. Entrepreneurship and labour must return to wages. I think I know why there is resistance to taxes on property income: every month you are confronted with your pay slip and with what has been deducted from social contributions and income tax. It is a logical pavlov reaction to think that taxes on wealth income will be high. They're not. In the Netherlands it is less than 16%. I just mentioned figures from a table. That's about half as compared to most countries in Europe. That is what Mr Cnossen and Mr Jacobs' tax proposals are about: taxing more fairly. Their proposal could lead to a 9% reduction in taxes on labour income. I ask the Minister whether she agrees with me that income from work and business should be paid more again and that property income should be taxed more. Is she, like me, upset that reforms are taking so long? Do we dare to stick our necks out as politicians and engage in the debate on sensitive issues? Do we dare to say to our own supporters: "We're going to cut your meat too? This is the only way to create a resilient, future-proof, fair economy." At the moment you need 12 times the gross annual annual income to be able to pay an average house of €440,000. So you can never buy a house again on your own. We're all people's representatives. We have to make choices for 17 million people and for their children. We all know that having fair taxes is a good choice. So let us all put our hands on it and work towards a fairer world with less chasm. Then Sander can stop his program after one season instead of working on it until his retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u194	Thank you. Then Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u195	Mr. Chairman. Does the Start note start with a false start? I am reading a document with many figures and statistics, for which I am grateful, but I am missing the most important environmental factor: rising inflation. This rose by 7.6% last month. The word "inflation" does not even appear in the document. 7.6% has been the highest score since 1982; that was exactly 40 years ago. Whole generations are not familiar with the phenomenon of "inflation." It sounds like a breeze passing by, but it doesn't. According to the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Mr Knot, inflation will continue for some time. Until recently, he said it was temporary. We are dealing with a document covering the period 2022-2026. That will soon be necessary for a "start-up note." Probably gonna be the spring note. I'll ask the Minister if she shares my observation. Personally, I can remember the inflation waves in the 1970s. They weren't pleasant. Two oil crises pushed up prices and wages. The government didn't know how to cut back. Ordinary citizens were the victims. Purchasing power fell, because inflation is the common man's thief and very persistent, moreover. Mr. Chairman. In the end, the Lubbers I cabinet did not really succeed, not even the Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet. The government also had to tighten up the tummy room itself. Lubbers I was therefore a good cabinet. Inflation was curbed and economic growth continued. The Start note shows that Rutte IV, unlike Lubbers I, spends too much money in the current circumstances. Moreover, interest rates are too low. In particular, the climate fund and the nitrogen fund, with EUR 60 billion, are bombers. This is a lot of money, my group thinks JA21; without clear purposes, management methods and constitutional embedding, as far as I can see. Can we actually afford these funds? That will be the big question for the years to come. Can the Minister give more insight into the structure and management of the funds, and into the relationship between the two funds and the budgetary law of the House of Representatives? Additional climate taxes will push inflation further, and the ghost continues. And the purchasing power is also being eroded further. Is the Minister aware of this? Mr. Chairman. JA21 sees a wider problem. Current government policy is "polluting" the investment climate, if I may put it that way. Companies are getting into trouble with more and more regulation and NGOs act as political activists. Unilever's gone. Shell's leaving. KLM is getting into trouble and the position of Schiphol is threatened to be demoted. What remains of our strong economic base? Dutch companies feel abandoned by the cabinet. KLM has to change its business model because, as the Minister said, "the societal view of climate change." May I ask the Minister to clarify that? And how does the Minister himself see the current investment climate? Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with one final fact. The word "climate" appears sixteen times in the Start note, the word "investment climate" zero times. That says enough. But everyone knows that the money we're going to spend has to be earned first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u196	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party. In the meantime, I'm just sharing with the Chamber a little problem we have, which is that it's getting very late. We have seven more speakers to speak on the side of the Chamber. After that, the Minister will have to give some thought to the answers. Then we also have a deadline that is going to take about the same amount of time. It is about a lot of subjects and there will be a lot of interruptions. So maybe it's a thought to just stop after the first term of the Chamber and move on another day. I'll let you think about it. I'm just sharing with you. I've been sitting with one eye on the clock for a couple of hours, and I find it's gonna be later and later. And I also note that, for example, in the Presidium, Mr Nijboer, my witness is very much on the line to be outside at 11 p.m. We're not gonna make it this way. You may think about it for a moment, but Mr Omtzigt has another opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u197	Mr. Chairman. We're paid to have opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u198	Yeah, that's our core business, but you have a lot more than other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u199	That's right. But as chairman, you cannot have an opinion, and you find that very difficult; I can see that in your face. Your proposal seems to me to be a good one, if only because the last train leaves for Enschede at 10:55 p.m. But this is only personal. I hear the last train leaves for Groningen at 10:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u200	Is it a feeling that's being shared more widely? I see people nodding yes. I'm even getting applause. You'll never get that as president. The Minister may not vote, but I see what her opinion is. Would Mr Heinen like to say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u201	As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna keep going. We started a debate here. The debate also ends, of course, because there were many interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u202	Yeah, one speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u203	I've been there an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u204	If you'd just stayed home, we'd be home by now. Now you don't have to blame us, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u205	Unfortunately, we have won the election. All the interruptions of all parties are now exhausted, so I think we can move on quickly now. And, of course, it also depends on the extent to which we include ourselves in the Minister's term. Let's just try that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u206	Yeah, but I know my pappenheimers. And I also think that MPs simply have the right to interrupt a minister. This is a debate with the minister, so people also want to interrupt. I can try to narrow that down a little bit. I just did that by allowing four interruptions. I find that very annoying and very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u207	Mr President, you are now giving your own opinion. It is good that you are raising this issue. It is up to us to form an opinion on this. I do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u208	Hey. Mr. Azarkan, I need your help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u209	Certainly I'm going to help you, Mr. Chairman. I think you made a sensible proposal, if only because I got out very early this morning and started early. I think it is a good proposal to continue this debate at a different time after the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u210	I also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u211	It wasn't even really a proposal yet, but okay. Mrs. Van der Plas, perhaps. Anyone can say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u212	Now nineteen groups are all going to say things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u213	Yeah, now they all want!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u214	I do have a request. Let us bear in mind that farmers and many other professional groups continue to work until nightfall, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u215	They start early!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u216	I would like to support the request in itself, but I would ask the other groups for the next week, so that if, for example, this means a request for a postponement of a committee debate, because debates coincide, the groups do not say very rigidly: we do not do that. Because the small groups in particular will be in a bit of trouble next week with all the plenary debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u217	I understand. That's what I'll pass on to the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u218	As far as I'm concerned, we can continue. If you say 'I'm acting as Bureau rules on the end times of debates', then I'm really looking at you for that. I'm ready to move on. I can go to bed late and still get up early, I say to Mrs Van der Plas. That's no problem at all. At the same time, if you say that we have a final deadline, I do not think there is any point in suspending the Minister's term halfway through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u219	No, I agree. In the case of budgets, of course, we often do it in the same way that we do the first time in one day and the rest on another day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u220	Four interruptions weren't many. If we are also allowed to intervene four times with the Minister, it will indeed end enormously. I'd back it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u221	I don't feel good about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u222	On behalf of the Den Haan Group, I support your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u223	We're on the same page. That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u224	As far as I'm concerned, we can finish today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u225	Well, let's finish it off, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u226	Mr President, support for your proposal, also on behalf of Mr van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u227	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u228	I think your proposal would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u229	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u230	Yes. Very good. Mr. Eppink. I didn't hear you, but I saw you. You have to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u231	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u232	Look, now I hear you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u233	Support from Teun.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u234	Support from Teun. Well, then we're good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u235	I'm fine with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u236	You're very accommodating. Does the Minister have a preference, even in view of her own schedule? Do I hear you now? You need to hold the microphone down. No. Then do it outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u237	Thank you. I am, of course, at the disposal of the Chamber. My own preference would have been, should it have mattered, to complete and complete this, also in view of the schedules... Next week, I'm expected to be in the Upper House as well. There is also a two-day G20 meeting. I think it is important that this is completed in good time, also in the interests of the Spring Paper and its preparation. But the Chamber decides. I live in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u238	Then we'll just have to... I'll establish that we'll stop after the first term. Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u239	Mr President, I can hear you. I think we all feel the inconvenience. I'm watching the clock, too. May I ask you a question, Mr. Chairman? Then I can really appeal to you, but also to the Presidium, this time with "you." What's the line in here? 'Cause it looks like we're doing it a little ad hoc right now. This debate was scheduled for 5 p.m. Then I knew, with all due respect, that we'd be around here by now. Then we could have planned it differently. I would therefore also like to make a request to the Presidium. What are the rules of the game, even for setting up the debate? To be honest, I find it uncomfortable that we now have to decide on an ad hoc basis. I think you have a role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u240	Of course, it went wrong. We'd start much sooner. We were supposed to start at 4:00 or 4:30. That's when the other little debate got in the way. There's no hard law of Meden and Persians to strike at 11:00, Mr. Van Weyenberg. That would be really weird. Then you should just stop halfway through a debate. So it is not that clear, but there is a very strong desire, also from Madam President, to think a little about our health and not always to meet in the middle of the night. If we just keep going, it's gonna be real night work, then it's gonna be after midnight. That's why. After the first term, we'll call it quits.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u241	Clear, Mr. Chairman. My request remains in order to get a good grip on that for a while. I simply find it uncomfortable that we should discuss this in inter-ruption debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u242	Absolutely. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u243	I want to prevent the coalition from forcing anything here when part of the Chamber says: we are getting tired and we would like to continue on another day. I would point out, however, that the agendas are running out. If you put this debate in for next week, you have a very good chance that it will be held again in the evening. If we follow the line that we don't meet in this house after 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u244	11:00, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u245	Yeah, 11:00. That is possible, but a lot of debates go on afterwards. I therefore agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that we must draw a general line in this regard. Personally, I'd like to continue. We started the debate. Motions are still being tabled. They're up-to-date. We have problems with inflation; we may want to send a message about it. So I'd say "we're going ahead," but if some members in the Chamber say, "Oh, I'm getting really tired and health is important," then I'll settle for that and then we'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u246	That's highly appreciated. Mr Nijboer, the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u247	You know, we're tired and we can't... of course it's not. There's quite a health problem in the Chamber. There are people with something in the family; there are people overwhelmed. The President has sent a letter: we will stop at 11 p.m. Now this chairman states: we are far from getting there; we are going to suspend until 9:45 p.m. And then a little bit of pretending... I don't like that. I have to go to Groningen myself, preferably tonight, but I can do that in the morning. But then you miss half the day again and then you're completely done... That can all be fine...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u248	Let us continue with Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u249	...but I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u250	I have a personal fact. There's nothing suggested here. I care about health. If that's a signal, we'll just stop. But what I am making a point of is that there is a very good chance that this debate will be held in the evening next week and that we will have the same problem. The agendas are filling up. So I do not know if this is a solution to the problem. That is why I joined Mr Van Weyenberg: let us agree on a general line in the light of health. But doing this ad hoc is just as unexpected and unforeseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u251	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u252	Mr. Chairman. Whether this is good for my health I don't know, but I've kept up pretty well. Okay, Mr. Chairman. On 10 January we received the Start note from the Rutte IV cabinet. It contains, as usual at the beginning of a new period, many good intentions. But yes, as is often the case with good intentions, the question is: what are they worth at the end of a period? In any case, I believe that the cabinet is shifting the bill to the next generation. I also really wonder to what extent public finances are controlled. That's what I'm questioning. Mr. Chairman. Let me also start with some positive notes. The SGP welcomes the fact that money is being allocated to defence and security. Mr Van Weyenberg (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I think it is very good that extra money should be put into roads, canals, bridges and locks. "And in the trail," I hear him shouting. Yeah, he's very fond of that, and so am I. However, there are, of course, a number of other things, because so far I have not been able to read any valid arguments for the way in which the state finances are handled. But perhaps the minister will appoint them in her first term. I have the impression that quite conveniently quite a lot of money is being spent. The passing on of the CPB also seems to be losing value, because after years of great confidence in the science of the CPB we take the analyses if I may put it a little bit with a grain of salt. I haven't heard how the cabinet is going to comply with those good intentions either. What, for example, is the public debt target? Is the government going to cut back if the interest rate actually goes up, as the previous speaker said, or are we going to get back to the period when Lubbers-I started? And how is the cabinet going to comply with European budgetary rules? Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned it in an interruption debate with the VVD: the first gaps in the budget are already visible. There will be a billion-dollar compensation for the 3-debacle box and from Europe we have a setback of EUR 1.3 billion. My question to the Minister is how she's going to fill these holes. And what does it say that we don't have solid buffers right now, and that in relation to the state of the government's finances? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State and the Court of Auditors also crack critical notes. The cabinet contradicts the opinions of the CPB, De Nederlandsche Bank and the Study Group on Budgetary Space. My question is very clear: is the cabinet receptive to the criticism that comes from these sections? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the billions of funds. They are occasional, but the question is how realistic that is. Others have also put that question on the table. In fact, the cabinet will undertake commitments on paper until 2050, but will finance them until 2030. My specific questions are as follows. Can the Minister justify how these amounts of 25 and 35 billion have been allocated to the funds? How can this money be spent efficiently and effectively if the budget is already fixed and it almost cries out to be spent? So how do we prevent political arbitrariness and unwanted lobbying forces from filling that out? How is the Court's budget law respected and what precedent do we set with these funds? Mr. Chairman. I should just like to refer to the law on the establishment of the Growth Fund. We haven't had that through the Chamber yet, but the first changes have already been made by, for example, removing a third of the fund from the infratak. I do not think that is wrong at all. Anyway, my question is: how can we use a fund properly when we see time and time again that it doesn't work? Because there is still very little clarity about the design of the new funds. I assume that this will be done through a sound institutional law and that no real expenditure will be incurred until that law is in place. Finally, Mr President. Criticism also includes counter-proposals. That is why yesterday the SGP presented a budget neutral proposal to replace the three child schemes, including the childcare allowance, with one child contribution. It is an understandable, simple and feasible plan with freedom of choice and additional support for low and middle incomes. Of course, we are open to further improvements, but I think it is a better plan than the cabinet is now presenting. I'd like to hand it over to the minister through the messenger. I am very curious to hear a written response from the Minister to this SGP proposal. Of course, I hope that this handout from outside the coalition will also be taken seriously into account in the revision of the surcharge system. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u253	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. We'll hand over this letter to the minister. We are now going to listen to Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It won't be me. If we can have a good and efficient debate on content with each other soon, then we can indeed get home quickly. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate on the Start note, the financial translation of the coalition agreement. We are talking about expenditure ceilings and budgetary rules. I understand that if we do not withdraw from that in a motion, the rules of the game will also be for the next three years. There is a lot of discussion about this financial translation of the coalition agreement, but there is one thing we all agree on: this coalition agreement has ended a period of decades of responsible fiscal policy, sensible fiscal policy. In addition to the 85 billion earmarked for the fight against corona and the measures, this Minister of Finance is going to increase public debt by some 75 billion. That does not mean a sovereign debt that falls to 28% in 2060, but a sovereign debt that goes up to between 75% and 92%. With this expansionary and uncovered policy, this Minister of Finance is creating a new phase in the way in which we deal with public money. As economist Wilma Bolhuis said on Monday in the round table, this is the most expansive cabinet of all time. Actually, you can also speak of a puff budget. The Rutte IV cabinet overtakes the Den Uyl cabinet on the left. And that's not for ideological reasons. I see Mr Nijboer laughing. He forgot to go to Groningen later, but he heard "Den Uyl"! But the mutual distrust and the great differences in content are actually the reason. They were bought off with a huge bucket of money, at the expense of future generations. The second observation is that this cabinet rules until far after its end. Much of the expenditure is due to expire well after March 2025, when this cabinet comes to an end, at least missionary. We read: 2031 the climate money, 2033 the housing impulse, 2036 the nitrogen fund. Can the Minister state what is the distinction between occasional and structural expenditure? 'Cause I'm not getting it out of the Start note. The third observation is that this does not lead to an increase in purchasing power. What do all these plans mean if the Dutchman doesn't feel this in his wallet? Mr Heinen said it very nicely. He said, "We've had a great pass-through of our plans, and suddenly inflation went booming. Well, governing is far-sighted, taking into account circumstances. Indeed, inflation was 7.6% compared to January a year ago. That's absurdly high. We haven't seen it in this size for 40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u255	This is almost entrapment. It is suggested here that inflation could actually be foreseen. I actually have one simple question. What inflation has Mr Azarkan included in his election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u256	This is not so much about the electoral programme, because when we look at it, we actually see a completely different programme from that presented by the parties. This is because I have already indicated it here in the budget on Princess Day. I warned him myself. I indicated that inflation was going towards 4% or 5%. I indicated that this meant that we had to compensate Dutch people at some point. So that was already told in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u257	That's not an answer to my question. I asked what inflation rate you included in your election programme. Apparently, you're a visionary: you can see everything coming. Your plans seem to have been based on these higher inflation rates. What inflation rate did you calculate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u258	Of course, this is just a silly trick. I will remind Mr Heinen that it took his party about a year to form this cabinet. Mr Heinen's party, in particular Mr Rutte, was under enormous pressure. That has led to a year's delay. It is, of course, a very strange comparison to ask: what inflation rate did you calculate a few years ago? At the time of the coalition agreement, we immediately asked for a transfer of funds; that was left to this cabinet, especially Mr Heinen's party. We used to get them all the time. That's what we had to ask for right now. It was too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u259	Finally, Mr President. We base all our plans on the medium term path of the CPB, the mlt path. That is what we base our electoral programmes on, as well as the points we are negotiating for the government agreement. Nothing's changed. New estimates will be added later. That's what we're dealing with right now. So now we have to deal with that too. You're suggesting that you've seen everything and that I haven't seen it all. I'll try to pierce that fairy tale here, because we didn't see all this coming and we have to deal with it now. It is just too easy to say: I have always warned of it and it is not in your plans; if only you would have listened to me. I think that's too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u260	That's not true. Just after Princess Day, a number of people have already said here: inflation is really starting to rise; this will mean that people will be able to get fewer messages and pay less, especially if they earn little money. So it's not like I predicted that. I believe that this cabinet has waited too long for the coalition agreement to be passed on to the CPB on its own. When the bill came, it was suddenly a surprise that the numbers turned out very differently. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. We have an inflation rate that is absurdly high. We haven't seen such a high grade in 40 years. This leads to a decline in purchasing power in 2022: on average €40 per month, with outliers to €200 per month. I would like to know what the Minister is going to do now and how she is going to implement a positive and balanced purchasing power policy. I would like to add that reducing inflation is, of course, also a task of the ECB and De Nederlandsche Bank. This cabinet can help with that. The most effective measure is to reduce VAT by 2%. The VAT used to be 19%. Why doesn't it just go back from 21% to 19%? That means that people pay less for the groceries and can just buy a little more groceries. Mr. Chairman. I can see that I am almost at the end of my speaking time. I would like to comment on the funds. In essence, increasing spending is not, of course, the most effective way of solving social problems. Has the Minister also looked at tax incentives and standards and prices? I know those alternatives hurt. That takes political courage. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I believe that the handling of the premium affair should be faster and more generous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u261	Thank you. You're perfect on time. I call Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise you: we have already talked about it this evening, but when it comes to money, I would like to start with the purchasing power of older people in particular, because pensioners have been ruined for years. In the coming years, as in recent years, no or little indexation of pensions is expected. As a blow to the head, the cabinet's idea is to separate the AOW once from the minimum wage, which means that pensioners miss an increase in their income. Mr. Chairman. I told you tonight, this is causing great unrest among the elderly. In the coming years, the purchasing power of all pensioners will not only lag behind, but will even decline, as a result of increasing burdens, such as those on energy and messages. That's what we see in the calculations of the Nibud. The AOW'ers are left behind and we actually see a minus in all the calculated households of AOW'ers. But the good news is that there is a wide-ranging motion to prevent this. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance whether there is any progress on the government's commitment not to let pensioners go backwards either. Furthermore, I find it particularly strange that the government considers it undesirable to accept funds in terms of budgetary rules, whereas 75 billion is earmarked for different funds. And that is when we still have to think about exactly what to do with that money. In my career outside politics, and I also think in that of the Minister of Finance, you first think of what you want and then look for the resources. If it is not yet known what exactly is going to be done with these huge amounts of money, I suggest that the money needed to compensate the AOWs should be taken out of these funds, so that our older people too can retain some purchasing power over the coming period. (NL) Mr President, the labour market. Like the Council of State, I believe that the issue of the labour market remains too limited. At the moment, there is a huge and increasing shortage of labour on the Dutch labour market. This can cause economic growth to stagnate. I see that money is mainly budgeted to help young people get back into work, and that is of course very important, but for older jobseekers it is really much more difficult to get back into work. They run into a lot of prejudice. It is important to think about how to get older people back to work and therefore to take out their finances. (NL) Mr President, finally, ICT. In the years to come, 200 million, 600 million and 600 million respectively have been budgeted for. In particular, I have a question about ICT within the executive agencies of the government. Much has been said in recent months about these implementing agencies and things that have not gone well there. In addition to culture, ICT plays an important role in this. Is it not wise to appoint a steering committee or task force to work in an integral way, in a broad sense? It is really weird that agencies like the SVB, the Tax Office, municipalities, CIZ, CAK and UWV all have separate systems that cannot communicate with each other and sometimes even within the same body? All mistakes made by failing ICT cost a lot of money. After all, well-functioning bodies benefit all inhabitants of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u263	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Residents of the Netherlands. Today's young people are more in debt than their parents at the time, partly because of the loan system. They can't have a house either. These are two of the many problems facing young people. When they grow up, they're gonna get caught again. Because in 20 to 25 years' time they will be able to pay the bill for the billions that the coalition wants to spend on climate and nitrogen measures. 60,000 million euros goes there; hupsakee. At the same time, however, we need to cut EUR 500 million in youth care, while the arbitration committee said that there must be much more. How can you explain this? And then the elderly, who have built our country for the last 50 years. They are caught as the AOW is disconnected from the minimum wage. Pensions have not been indexed for years. Older people have fallen between 200 and 500 euros in 15 years, while the cost of living has increased by around 100 euros per month. People don't want to make debts, so they care about quality of life and well-being. Any politician who doesn't really want to do anything about this has to stop this work now. The Nibud calculated the income effects of the coalition agreement on the basis of De Nederlandsche Bank's December declarations with an inflation rate of 3%. Today CBS reports that this inflation has already risen to 6.4% or even 7.6% according to the European method. This means that the purchasing power plates outlined can go back into the paper tray immediately after publication. Poverty threatens many more people if energy prices remain so high, food prices continue to rise and a tank of petrol is almost priceless. 28% of Dutch people are financially vulnerable. We're talking about over five million people. In the meantime, the Minister of Finance has also met with a setback after a setback. 1.3 billion less from Europe and a billion in compensation due to the inadequate capital tax in box 3. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the development of the economy is taken back as a basic rule to determine whether there are windfalls, and not the broad prosperity. In other words, what is the impact on well-being? What is the impact on people's health, on education, on social cohesion? The cabinet continues to concentrate complex care. BBB cannot support this if in practice it means that this concern will only concentrate in the Randstad, as with the Center for Congenital Heart Malfunctions in Groningen, which must be removed there. There's more going on outside the Randstad. The Westerschelde tunnel must become toll-free from this Chamber, but the cabinet will move it to 2030, because there would be no cover. Now it's nitrogen again. It's like less nitrogen is emitted when you're going to take a toll. Like people are just gonna drive back and forth through that tunnel for fun if that's free. Of course not. They're gonna run less, so they're gonna emit less nitrogen. Stop making excuses and just do what the Chamber wants. Coverage is a political choice. There's more going on outside the Randstad. In the settlement of the damage in Groningen. In the settlement of the damage in Limburg and further downstream in other parts of the South Netherlands. There's more going on outside the Randstad. At the possible closure of a barracks is Assen. That barracks must also be maintained and preserved, because it is a national monument. And then say that employment goes to Havelte, and then to Havelte to remove jobs. In the meantime, there's more money going to the DOD. So what is the real reason for this absurd idea? Geographical distribution and a rural test should therefore be part of any consideration of this cabinet, including investment. Does the Minister agree with this? Finally, a final word to the citizens at home about the reduction in the contribution to the municipalities. Dear citizens of the Netherlands, on 14, 15 and 16 March you can choose the city council. Choose wisely. It's too late on March 17th.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u265	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u266	Mr. Chairman. The Start note, or as Mr Eppink said: the false start note, is already under pressure after the 3-debacle box. The coalition suggested that all illegally obtained money should be recounted on a detour to the corrupted. Well, how shameless can the government be? What the government should do is what catering companies,zzp'ers, SMEs and citizens who sigh at high energy and fuel prices have to do: tighten the belt and cut into their own meat; in short, reduce bureaucracy in the government apparatus. Unfortunately, no bureaucracy with monopoly will ever reduce its own size, although this would be in the interests of the Netherlands. There are billions thrown into the Start note as if they were pepper nuts on December 5th. To quote a parliamentary evergreen: Santa Claus exists and there she is. Difficult amounts without plan, without justification, to be spent by ministers with sometimes little or no expertise in their departments. In short, a money search project approach that consultants, policy staff, advisors and lobby organisations know very well about. It is clear what would have to be bought between the coalition members with all these billions. Fortunately, my parents taught me that friendships based on expensive gifts are doomed to failure. It gives the hard-working citizen courage that this coalition will end prematurely before he has to cough up his last savings for the taxman, caterpillar-never-enough. The macroeconomic consequences of the cabinet plans, especially for the next generation, will be enormous, but the glue of the plush is strong and irresistible. And, well, whether the government, with a procyclical policy, is inciting further inflation, which may well be crazy, given the ECB's monetary expansion in the euro area, the cabinet will be a concern. Whoever's alive, who's got another job. Perhaps the modern monetary theory is correct; who knows. The Minister of Finance may be able to consult with her officials. A tip on my part: ask for the traffic comparison of Fisher, MV=PT, because that is the alternative. I wonder what the Minister's view is on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u267	Thank you. Then the closing of the day will be done by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u268	Mr. Chairman. This Start note states that there will be large funds for nitrogen and climate. €15,000 per family is allocated. If we are not careful, we are going to subsidise large polluters. At the same time, there are enormous taxes on workers. The middle incomes from €36.000 pay marginal between 49% and 57.5% tax. That has never been so high in Dutch history. I challenge the Minister to call me another country where the tax on working becomes so high after the Start note. Foreign real estate investors don't pay anything. I predict that we will have a parliamentary survey on the expenditure on the climate fund and the nitrogen fund. In Europe, I would like to know whether this government intends to abide by the Stability and Growth Pact and whether it continues to reject Eurobonds. Then there's the setbacks. Which setbacks are currently known and should be incorporated into current cases? Box 3, the compensation for the EU's compensatory payments, the depreciation of the coronamil jards for the taxes, I haven't found any of that yet, and perhaps even additional corona expenditures. I would like to have a complete overview. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet runs the risk of entering history as the cabinet of the impoverishment of the middle class. If you increase the tax exemption by 1.3% and at the same time have 6% inflation, your purchasing power will not fall, then it will fall. People with a drafty house, people who rent or are retired, will feel it in a great way, but not really. Can I know what the maximum average purchasing power loss is acceptable to these groups? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the young people. No house, no permanent job, no stock exchange................................................................................................................................................................................................ What does this cabinet still have in store for the next generation under the motto 'we do it for the young'? Thank you very much and I apologize for the somewhat gloomy closing of the day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u269	Yes, you're not the sunshine we're used to from you today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u270	When was I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u271	I've seen you like a sunshine in the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u272	Oh, then I have a rather strange self-image. But have a nice trip home, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u273	You too. Thank you very much. Thank you to the Minister for her presence. Thanks to all the participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-23.u274	We are taking stock of the follow-up to this debate as soon as possible.
