ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on the recovery of childcare allowances. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. Also welcome to the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate at home. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very unusual: we had a debate this morning and we are now going to table the motions. But that's because on February 12th, so in two days' time, bailiffs can be at the door of parents who have been duped into child care. We had two committee debates on this: one last week and the second one this morning. Then the Secretary of State said: I would like a signal from the Chamber if I had to extend the law or otherwise take action. That's what we have to do, so that's why we have the signal we're asking for. We can vote on that directly today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legal moratorium expires on 12 February and that at least 750 parents who have been injured in the supplement scandal and who still have a legal claim are at risk of being evicted or seized;]] [[considers that parents who have been notified of the Catshuis scheme should not be further affected in this way and that extending the legal moratorium in this situation as soon as possible is a proportionate means;]] [[calls on the government to continue this year to ensure that only one of the victims of the surcharge scandal is removed from the house due to outstanding debts, or is subject to seizure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya, Mr Van Raan, Mr Simons, Mr Azarkan, Mr Maatoug and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-964]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u5	Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent hundreds of parents who have been duped into the supplement scandal from getting structuralally involved with bailiffs after next Saturday, the government needs to move now. But the Secretary of State indicated in the debate she had with us this morning that enough has been done, that enough measures have been taken and that no further guarantees can be given that the victims will be left alone in the near future. It seems that it has already accepted that people who have already been wronged are now in danger of being harmed again. That's not acceptable to the SP. The legally established moratorium preventing bailiffs from evicting these innocent people or confiscating their property can and should be extended as far as the SP is concerned. That seems to us to be the best way to prevent even more injustice and even more suffering after Saturday. That is why we are one of the authors of the motion tabled by the Labour Party and one of the parties to that motion. The Secretary of State said this morning that she wants a signal from this Chamber first. It therefore seemed to accept a delay if we had not already scheduled this two-minute debate as a matter of urgency and had drawn up such a motion as soon as possible. Thank God we're gonna do that. It is now to be hoped that the coalition parties will keep their backs straight, so that the political signal that the Secretary of State specifically asked for is also unmistakable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The two speakers before me have already expressed the indignation of a large part of this Chamber over the... I wanted to say 'progress', but unfortunately there is not so much progress in the handling of the damaged parents at all. That is why BET1 co-signed the motion previously tabled. Then I have a motion of my own, Mr President, along with Mr Van Raan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that disabled parents who have already received €30,000 can submit their private debts to the Social Banks Netherlands so that those debts are paid off;]] [[Considering that many disabled parents have also incurred informal debts to pay off their illegal public debts, but that these informal debts are not eligible for a settlement with the SBN because these debts are not officially recorded in an act with a notary;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to return the informal debts, which are now outside the existing arrangements, to the relevant parents, and to inform the Chamber in the 10th progress report on childcare allowances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-965]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than a year ago, the cabinet fell because parents and children had been wronged. The agreement that we had with each other, and which the Secretary of State also promised, but also our Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, is that we would do everything we could to help the victims. Mr. Chairman. Last week it was disappointing. The recalibrate has not been carried out sufficiently. That means we're really helping low numbers of people right now. The trick with which it seems like we've handled 8,300 people is just not fair. I think that too is a wrong start from the Secretary of State. There were 2,100 people who didn't want an integral test, but that was the deal. That didn't meet the definition. I would really like to call on the Secretary of State to report honestly if things go well and also if things don't go well. That's what she promised. Mr. Chairman. The second point is indeed about debt issues. If we have done people an unprecedented injustice, it also calls for unprecedented measures to restore it. That just didn't happen. I too am afraid of the urgency that was emitted. It is really not for people to explain that, two days before they get into trouble, we are still here talking about whether or not we are building up an emergency law. Two days before a bailiff might start confiscating their stuff, their goods, and maybe their home. I just don't think that's a matter of urgency. Finally, Mr President. We are still grievingly waiting for the child scheme. I get a lot of questions about that too. We're waiting for the partner arrangement. I would really like to call on the Secretary of State to show greater urgency, to report more honestly and to get to work as a matter of urgency to compensate people and to give them their money back. That can do the injustice a little bit right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Paul of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During this morning's debate on the expiry of the debt Moratorium on 12 February, I asked the Secretary of State to do everything possible to minimise its impact. To make this even more concrete, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 12 February next the legal debt moratorium for the first groups of parent supplement is due to expire and it is important that this does not lead to new problems for the deceased parents;]] [[calls on the Government to complete the review as soon as possible of a possible extension of the moratorium and to inform the Court thereof, and, in the meantime, to make every effort to cooperate with relevant parties, such as the Professional Association of Court Bailiffs, to ensure that the parents concerned are not put at risk of being evicted or otherwise injured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paul, Mr Kat, Mr Inge van Dijk and Mr Grinwis.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-966]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was quite embarrassing that we had to find out in two parts of a debate that there are 2,700 parents at risk of passing a bailiff, waiting for them to be recognized as doomed. I hope that we will be more informed about potential problems in the near future. I also hope that the government itself will begin to do so, and that this Secretary of State himself will see how it is going to organise this process much better. Now we run from incident to incident. I was shocked by the answers to Mr Azarkan's contribution. I repeat my question to really get those 25 e-mails from the FSV list. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the delay in UHT is now causing problems for the people for whom the moratorium expires;]] [[believes that those who are now in the moratorium should not suffer from the delay;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber by 10 March of the number of persons on the moratorium list who have been the subject of legal proceedings, the impact of such proceedings on individual victims and what the Government has done to prevent such consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-967]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that last week's debate and this moment will help to prevent bailiffs from getting back on the sidewalk with duped parents from the weekend ahead. In addition to what has been said by colleagues, a motion, with order number 890, by my colleague Mr Van der Plas and myself, was adopted unanimously in October. The entire Chamber then asked the government to ensure that parents who wanted to have access to debt relief or the Wsnp. I am not going to table another motion to underline that, but I would like the Secretary of State to carry out the motion in full. So I would like a commitment that it will happen. I want confirmation that she is carrying out this request from the entire Chamber. I want to make a commitment that it will offer this solution route actively and with emphasis and address it to all those who are in debt, because this route can simply provide a solution and prevent those affected from facing the demands of bailiffs from the weekend ahead. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u13	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am, of course, somewhat embarrassed by the fact that the Secretary of State states that she knew it a long time ago and has already had discussions. Then I think: maybe I should have done that myself sooner. But the fact remains that the Secretary of State is responsible for that. So I would like to give that monkey back to the Secretary of State and say that, if she already knows or feels that she needs an incentive from the Chamber, she will come forward with it. I just want her to come with it sooner. If she encounters unacceptable things she says she can't solve because she has to abide by the law, then we're gonna change them if she doesn't want to. That is why we have also signed Mr Nijboer's motion. We have two other motions. One motion is about a group that has been mentioned before. This is a group of ex-partners that was announced before 12 February 2021 for the Catshuisgeling. Those people are familiar in the system. That's a big group. Those people are outlaws, too. One is now suing the state. I can't believe that's necessary. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 12 February the legal moratorium expires and also older ex-partners who were known in the system before 12 February 2021, who were duped into the surcharge scandal and still have an open legal claim, are at risk of being evicted from their homes and being seized of their goods and assets;]] [[Considers that these duped older ex-partners should not be further undermined in this way and that the extension of the legal moratorium in this situation as soon as possible is a proportionate means;]] [[calls on the Government to continue this year to prevent this group of older ex-partners from being evicted in the supplement scandal due to outstanding debts and/or the seizure of their assets and resources,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Simons, Mr Nijboer, Mr Alkaya and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-968]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u15	Then there's another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UHT has provided the data for a moratorium to the bailiffs and that, as of 12 February 2022, the moratoria will expire and it is unclear which parents are at risk of seizure due to outstanding judicial private debts;]] [[noting that the legal basis is lacking so that the bailiff can report to UHT which parents this concerns, thus preventing UHT from actively approaching these parents;]] [[calls on the Government to establish the legal basis in such a way that bailiffs can provide this information to UHT in order to avoid unwanted seizures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Simons and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-969]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u16	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the two-minute debate on the recovery of childcare allowances. Since there has been a committee debate today, I propose that this be limited to the appreciation of the motions tabled. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u17	Mr. Chairman. I am going to ask for a little more space, because I think two more specific questions have been asked. I'd like to answer that as well as ask for the Chamber. First of all, Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union's question about bringing to the attention of municipalities the more active provision of debt relief. I agree with Mr Grinwis that pointing out debt relief is always possible. We think parents will be helped faster and better if they report their debts to Sociale Banken Nederland. But we think it is important to look at every possibility, so we will also bring this route to the attention of the parents. I always appreciate the thought involved, as Mr Grinwis has done. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the 25 e-mails. I have already indicated that I will pass on this request to my colleague Marnix van Rij van Fiscaleheid and Taxation, because this is about the Fraud Signaling Provision at the Tax Office. I can tell you that PwC transferred the documentation yesterday and today. On this basis, the Tax Administration must now look for information in its own systems. My colleague will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Then there's the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 964 of the PvdA, the SP, the Party for Animals, BET1, DENK, GroenLinks and Mr Omtzigt. We have already dealt with a lot of issues, because we also see that the moratorium is going to end. I think we're all trying to reduce the risk of people getting back on track. Social Banks Netherlands has indeed been established for this purpose. People can register their private debts there. The window opened on 5 January. We have tried to make the filing of debts as simple as possible via kluitwijzer.nl, together with the bailiffs. There have also been agreements made with bailiffs. There has been an emergency procedure at the request of Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA so that, if there are people on the sidewalk, there is a number to which a call can be made. We've informed parents on several occasions. Among other things, they receive a letter two months before the moratorium expires. Information is available on social media and a call action has also been launched. That is the final part of the approach. The motion calls on the government to continue this year to prevent the expulsion of any of the victims of the surcharge scandal due to outstanding debts or to be subject to seizure. I have already indicated this morning that the one-year moratorium is laid down in the law and that I cannot give the 100% guarantee as laid down in the law. I understand the need for us to do everything we can to prevent that. Hence all the measures I have just indicated. That's why I must advise against this motion. The emergency law is not the solution to the problem, because it will not be there before 12 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u18	Thank you. Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u19	We have now had a committee debate on this twice. The House does not want to see the Secretary of State understand that now, I think, people who have been damaged and who have been unable to be seized for a year are likely to be seized from the day after tomorrow. It doesn't matter to us very much in any way, but it just shouldn't happen. I don't understand why the Secretary of State is saying, "Yes, but it might be possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u20	We talked about this in detail this morning. We don't want any of this. That is why we have set in motion all the steps I have just mentioned: the emergency procedure, the arrangements with the bailiffs and so on. I call on all the people who have been duped and have private debts to report those debts to Sociale Banken Nederland. We think that there are still a lot of hooks and eyes to extend the moratorium. It's kind of a hell of a procedure. I should like to return to Mrs Paul's motion, which looks at an exploration to illustrate the meaning and the advantages and disadvantages of a number of things. I'll give it to you later, so we can do that reconnaissance. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u21	A reconnaissance, that of course doesn't help the parents between next Saturday.That's why we're here right now and we'll also vote immediately and when that reconnaissance is ready. I believe that the Secretary of State and this whole cabinet should feel responsible for these parents and ensure that they are not harmed. If that law can't be done, it has to be done in a different way. So I don't understand why the motion was dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u22	I also find it complicated if the idea is that this motion will be dealt with before 12 February. That is not the case. We are concerned with the year laid down in the law. I have just indicated that we have put a lot of measures aside to prevent people from getting into extra trouble again. I think we all share that goal. But with this motion, it will not be resolved until 12 February. We've put a lot of things in motion to prevent that. I think this is important, too. The Chamber has also raised a number of points for this, among others by Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA. That's what we set in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u23	I give you all the opportunity to ask one short question. First of all, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u24	Does the Secretary of State understand what she's doing here if she rejects the motion? In fact, we are tabling a motion in which we say that the victims must not be expelled by the delay caused by the implementation organisation of the Tax Administration itself, the UHT. The cabinet has fallen on this. Apologies have been made. I tell you that none of this is worth anything if we find out later that people are still being evicted from their homes, because the UHT could not judge them and because they did not know it. Does the Secretary of State share this and does she want to ensure that in the coming weeks no one from the group of victims of the premium affair is removed from home?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u25	I don't think anyone wants any removals to take place. That is why we have taken all the steps I have just indicated. There's an emergency procedure. When the bailiffs are on the doorstep, they should contact Sociale Banken Nederland. That is the best solution to solve all these private problems of debt and the corresponding delays in payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u26	This feels weird, doesn't it? We've had a debate twice. Today we have specifically zoomed in on the debt problem. Actually, I got the impression that the Secretary of State said, if this is what the Chamber wants, then we're not just going to explore it, but we're going to do it. The argument the Secretary of State is now putting in to dissuade is: this is not the solution in the short term. But my appeal to the Secretary of State is: do everything now; consult through the UHT with the parents, bailiffs and other agencies to ensure that no accidents happen and that no one gets out on the street. Surely in two, three or four weeks, this could be the solution we're falling back on? If this is put into effect, this is also something on which the bailiffs can fall back and to which reference can be made by the UHT. So it's both possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u27	The other motion by Mrs Paul, the motion in part No. 966, also indicates we're going to explore it. I indicated this morning in the debate that there are still a number of shortcomings, for example about legal sustainability, but also about how you deal with fundamental rights, such as property rights. I understand that the Chamber very much wants us to do as much as possible to ensure that people do not fall between shore and ship. That is why we have taken the whole package of measures that I have just indicated. I have said, however, that I think I must say quite frankly that this does not offer a 100% guarantee. Nor does this motion extend the moratorium in the law on 12 February. In order to obtain good legislation, I think that we should simply take those steps in order to properly identify the advantages and disadvantages and the elements that apply to them. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 966 Judgment Room Giving.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u28	Mr. Van Raan, Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u29	The Secretary of State is acting like her thinking started this morning. That's not true at all. Last week, that wish was already there. In concrete terms, therefore, she has wasted almost another week, apparently waiting for the Chamber, when she knew she could have done so. That's one. Secondly, what Mr Azarkan says is absolutely true. Those lists are updated every two weeks. If it is not, then the motion tabled by Mr Nijboer is valid, namely to make every effort to prevent it and to regulate it legally for the next two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u30	I have indicated that I want to explore the possibilities. I did the same thing in last Friday's letter. I think it would be a little too simple to say that we could settle that in two weeks. This calls for a legislative process that we really need to look at. We also need to go through various bodies to assess whether it is good legislation, such as the Council of State, the Personal Data Authority and the Ministry of Justice, which always looks at the different legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u31	It is clear what is going on here: the coalition is coming up with its own motion to do nothing to change what it was already planning. That is very painful, because innocent people can be expelled from their homes from Saturday, without them being able to do anything about it. What is the political view of the Secretary of State? It all makes legal and practical arguments as to why an extension of the moratorium could not be possible, but what is its political view? Does she simply think that the rights of creditors prevail at the moment? 'Cause that's what I'm guessing. Does she think that these rights are more important than the rights of the injured parents who can be evicted from their homes? If that's the case, just say so, because people will know what they're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u32	I think I indicated this morning that this is not the case. I cannot, of course, go into what a number of parties have meant by the motion. I don't think the motion is just meant to write it down. We need to take a serious look at it. That's what I mentioned in last Friday's letter. It is important that we do it in a good way, but that has nothing to do with the fact that one is more important than the other. I think it is important that we help the parents and the children, but it calls for good legislation. I think that's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u33	Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u34	I notice that I have been blaming myself for this last week, because we should have had this debate three months ago. Perhaps we would have been in time to extend the moratorium and therefore not have a gap between 12 February and the moment we get it settled. The reason why we are being asked for a moratorium is because we are looking for a piece of certainty. I have abdominal pain because this seems to be the only way to get back at it. I have still not heard any other solution which offers that certainty. It has been said on a regular basis that there is no other possibility. Then I guess this is the only way to close it, to protect parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u35	I have also indicated that I cannot give that 100% guarantee on the basis of the package of measures we have taken. You're really gonna have to take care of it legally. That is not something we can do between now and 12 February. I also indicated this morning that there are a number of risks and that we need to examine them carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u36	Mrs Simons, BET1. Then we'll move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u37	I keep hearing the Secretary of State say that this is not something we are going to deal with between now and 12 February. I think every petitioner is very aware of that. But there is also a period after the twelfth. Mr Van Raan said it too. After that period, there are still some for the right order.I go there from only 2700 people who haven't been helped. For that period it would be very good to start this extension of the emergency law. I would also like to point out that we have been living in this country for a long time under an emergency law on corona. That law has been extended with swift ease a number of times. That is also possible for this emergency law, because it is an emergency, a crisis situation, especially for the parents. Whether those bailiffs appear or not, just the stress that they can appear, is enough. And that comes on top of the stress these parents already have and on top of the government's years of screw-up. I think we owe it to these parents, and I cannot imagine that the Secretary of State is unwilling to take steps now, so that we do not have to have the same discussion again in three months' time, because thousands of people have not been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u38	That is also why I gave the motion of the VVD and a number of other parties judgement Chamber. This file has been discussed more often. On this basis, additional actions have been launched to avoid what Mrs Simons rightly points out. We all don't want these parents getting into stress again. That's why we made agreements with bailiffs. That is why, two months before the moratorium expires, we have informed people in writing that it is going to end and we have asked all those who have been damaged and have asked for private debts, and I would like to do so again here to report them to the Social Bank Netherlands, so that a solution can be found to these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u39	Thank you. The motion in part No. 966 gets judgment Chamber, you've already indicated. That's Mrs. Paul's motion. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 965.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u40	In the motion in part No. 965, Mr Simons and Mr Van Raan, the government is invited to come forward with proposals to return the informal debts which are now outside the existing arrangements to the parents concerned. It has been stated that there should be a notarial deed for the informal debts. I would like to look at what equivalents we could use for that. The motion calls for this to be done in all cases. I can't do that. So in that sense, I must discourage the motion. But I am prepared to see what equivalents we might find for that notarial act, which also makes it plausible that there are informal loans. In the motion in part No. 967 the government is asked to inform the Chamber before 10 March of how many people on the moratorium list have been dealt with in court proceedings, what consequences this has had for individual victims and what the government has done to prevent those consequences. I understand the need to get a closer look at that. The point is that we do not really know at the moment whether we are allowed to do so. It is at the level of individual cases. I'm willing to find out if that's possible. I would therefore ask Mr Omtzigt to hold the motion until we have been able to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u41	I don't need names and numbers. This will undoubtedly be contrary to the GDPR. I just want to know if there have been removals and what has been done about them. This avoids the problem that the government would not comply with the law by sending a letter of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u42	I'm willing to send you that letter. I do, however, make the reservation that there is indeed regulation that imposes restrictions. But we're gonna see what's possible. I understand Mr Omtzigt's intention. If I may read the motion in this way, it could possibly get a ruling from the Chamber, but if I can read the motion in that way, because I am dealing with the existing legislation and regulations. That will restrict the information that we can or cannot provide is my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u43	Can you agree with that interpretation? Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u44	I agree with that interpretation, if in three weeks' time the Secretary of State can give maximum openness about it, taking into account the GDPR, or people have had to deal with a bailiff, or people have had to deal with expulsions or removals and everything that goes with it, and what has been done about it. I'll wait for that letter around March 10th.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u45	Thank you. Then the motion gets to part No. 967 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u46	With the interpretation I gave it. Then the motion to part No. 968. This motion calls on the government to continue this year to prevent this group of parents/ex-partners from being evicted in the supplement scandal because of outstanding debts, and/or that seizure of their goods and resources can take place. There is currently no legal basis for such a moratorium. Under the law, it is established that it is only a question of dependent parents. For ex-partners we are still developing an ex-partner scheme. It is not yet clear what we are going to do with debts. I do not think it is right for all of us here to raise expectations. I must therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u47	It's wonderful how the Secretary of State says very calmly here that she should avoid the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u48	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u49	... because of the legal basis. It concerns hundreds of people who are in real trouble. And it's just possible. We know, therefore, that it is also specifically included in this motion that it concerns the group prior to 12 February 2021. That's a known group. You can work something out for that. Can the Secretary of State stand up for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u50	I understand Mr Van Raan's concern. It is of course possible for ex-partners to bring the private debts that were incurred during the marriage to Sociale Banken Nederland. I also understand that sometimes there are problems with this when the partners are no longer able to go through one door. In this sense, it would be good to highlight the option that Mr Grinwis has indicated in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u51	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u52	The Secretary of State now outlines the picture of debts contracted together before the partners broke up. But that's already taken care of; that can already be done. It is precisely that group that is known until 21 February with debts after they split up. That is the very painful group that needs to be dealt with. That's all they're asking for here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u53	That is something that is not legally possible at the moment. In that sense, I must advise against this motion, even with reference to my reply which I have already given.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u54	Then the motion to part No. 969.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u55	The motion in part No. 969 asks the government to set up the legal basis in such a way that bailiffs can provide this information to the Implementing Organisation for Recovery Fees, so as to avoid unwanted seizures. As it has now been formulated, I must advise against this motion. I have already promised in the debate this morning that I want to explore what is needed to create this basis and how we could do it. So we're going to explore that, just like Mrs. Paul is asking us to. With this wording, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u56	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u57	It's true what the Secretary of State says. I think that has escaped me in the heat of battle. So I can safely withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u58	Since the motion-Van Raan c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-10-tweedekamer-21.u59	I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. Then we will vote first and then we will continue with the debate on the Start note.
