ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint examination of legislative proposals 35455, Temporary Experimentation Act new ballots and 35670, Amendment of the Election Act in connection with the final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the various questions I have received from the spokesmen. I've been trying to build a structure. I'd like to walk by a couple of blocks. The first is more of a general introduction. I shall also briefly comment on the House Act. I shall then turn to the point that many spokesmen have raised, namely the recognition of candidates. Another issue that has been discussed extensively by the members is the validity and validity of the votes and the difference between the bill for the experimental law and the bill for the ballot abroad. So that's the third thing: "valid or invalid" I just mentioned. The fourth topic is the operation of the models. Then I'm talking about the templates. The fifth is the evaluation. This is all about the experimental law. Then there are a few more questions: that is the sixth block of the electorate's bill abroad. And finally, seventh, cohesion. But hopefully it is already apparent from the previous answer. Coherence. Sa-men-hang. No, not Saba, I say to Mr Dittrich. Coherence. Mr. Chairman. I come to my introduction, which will be quite brief and I will first go into the Housing Act and then more generally on the reasons of the Temporary Experimentation Act. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing two legislative proposals today that are both about experiments with a ballot. One bill deals with foreign affairs. In addition, we have had a long process of conducting experiments. Following the agreement of this Chamber and the House of Representatives, this process started already in 2013 with a temporary experimental law in force, on the basis of which voters outside the Netherlands voted in an experiment with another model ballot. That is where the present proposal on foreign affairs, which is now before us in this Chamber, came from. The other bill is an experimental law for the use of ballots in the Netherlands. We are at the beginning of any experiments. That depends, of course, on whether the Chamber agrees to this law. Before I go into this, I would like to comment on a point which I think is justified and which all Members have actually made about the fact that we have included the Housing Act in a letter of amendment. Mr Koole quoted the words that I had myself included in the reply, namely that I thought it was 'not chic'. I myself am in favour of collecting legislation and sweeping laws, because I think that, especially for technical changes, is a good way of uniting a number of things. But, of course, I also asked about the history and I understand that the present legislative proposal was really necessary at that time. That's the other side. However, from a legislative point of view too, I do think it is really desirable that technical amendments and such things should be included in a law of sweeping or in repair legislation. I deal with this in line with the 2011 note and with the motion of Wopke Hoekstra. So let me put it this way: this cannot be repeated. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the first bill. Oh, no, there was also another question from Mr Koole, about whether this is a law of sweeping or a repair law. Was there, at that time, another, more substantive bill? 'Cause maybe you could have. But that wasn't available at the time. But I think, with Hindsight: if a sweeping law or a repair law is properly incorporated, then it can still go through different chambers as a hammer piece in these times. So in the end that would have been the most legally appropriate way. For example, what does it mean, says Mr Van Hattem, if this law is not passed? It's really a technical change. It is therefore not a substantive change. It actually means that we just have an Environment Act in which the references are not properly defined. In daily practice, well-established lawyers will know that it is different, but if this law is not passed, I will be instructed to make sure that we do so as soon as possible. I would like to begin with this point. I'll learn from it; shall I put it this way? Mr. Chairman. Then indeed the bill of temporary experimentation law. I very much agree with what Mr Koole said. It is really an opportunity to carry out an experiment in practice with another model ballot in a voting room with good guarantees. In fact, all the Members, both those who look more positively at it and those who have serious doubts about it, have asked what are the reasons for this minister to do so. For me, a very important reason for doing this is that we in the Netherlands want all voters to be able to participate. I recognized very much what Mr Meijer said about the associations. It was not only the Eye Association, but also the PCOB, the Protestant Christian Elder Association, and for example the elderly organisation for migrants. Each (in) is also an example. A wide range of different social institutions have called on the government, the cabinet, to create a ballot to enable people to vote independently. They also indicate that at least 2.5 million people are low-lettered in the Netherlands. Some are visually impaired, others are blind. They have also looked very closely at this development. We are very much aware that this type of change requires that you also engage with experience experts themselves. They have also indicated that they are in favour of this bill, because it offers an opportunity for voters who otherwise need help in the voting booth to vote independently. Several people asked for this. I think this is an important reason, among other reasons, because it concerns the electoral perspective. The second is indeed true. Several Members have also indicated this. In recent years, the Election Council and the Association of Dutch Municipalities have indicated that it is really important for them to have a more manageable banknote to count. I've seen it in practice, too. Fortunately, in the Netherlands we have the beautiful tradition of counting the votes in public. I have been to Utrecht and Rotterdam. It is a major operation, which indeed happens in a well organized way, but people really have puzzles to do with such large bills on those days. It's gonna take a lot of time. The Election Council and the Association of Dutch Municipalities have said over the past period: let's see how we can organize it differently. Finally, of course, there is the state committee which has expressly stated that it is important to arrive at a new, smaller ballot. It's really a change. I think you should do that kind of thing carefully. That is precisely the reason, also in line with what Mr Koole said, for working with a temporary experimental law. Then we can test each other even further and evaluate here with each other whether we are doing this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u4	I hear the Minister say that counting is public. I said in my first term: the counting and the addition must be public. The addition is not public. So that's aggregation of the votes in the different polling stations. This will then be added to a central polling station. Not only me, but also all kinds of experts have come to the conclusion that there is the weak point in counting. When things go wrong, it's often in the aggregation. I think the Election Council is aware of that, too. How is this to be changed with greater transparency? Our question is to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u5	One of the steps we have taken over the past year is that we have made the minutes public, so that it is clear if there are count errors. Recounting is also important. There is also a legislative proposal on the determination of the results of the elections, which, of course, also includes steps to improve the shape of the process, I say to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr Kox did have an interesting suggestion based on his election observations abroad, whereby you choose a list and a person with a computer on a form. You put that form in the ballot box. When Mr Kox said that, I thought that would be a very good way of doing a double check to see if the votes were all cast correctly. I'd like to advise the Minister to build in some more redundancy. I can't think of the Dutch word that quickly. A kind of superfluousness that reduces the risk of errors. Because that aggregating is still a weakness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u7	I believe that two aspects are important in order to achieve a good redundancy if, according to Mr Otten, that is the correct translation of redundancy. In any case, when there is an aggregation of votes, there is always a review and a recount, sometimes with different methods. The second is that the electoral process - as Mr Kox says more broadly and Mr Otten also pointed out in his speech - is not a standstill. We are indeed looking at new developments, even when it comes to digitalisation. There was an investigation in Belgium recently and I will come back to Switzerland later. We just still haven't found a method that's really safe. I realize very well that the election process only needs to be compromised once to have a real loss of trust. A very convenient point is the recognizability of the candidates. I think that's one of the reasons for experimenting. I am going to deal with a number of points that have been raised. You can evaluate with each other the extent to which a new system actually makes the candidate less visible to the electorate. That's why I think it's important. Indeed, it is true that the form of model 2 currently contains the party names with the logos and then the figures of the persons below. That does not mean that the candidates participating will remain anonymous to the electorate. I agree with all the Members here that it is important that the candidates are visible in the voting room and that this is easy to find. So not only that you see exactly who the candidates are when you enter the polling room, but that you also see very clearly in that voting booth who the candidates are. You can look that up. And yes, with the various tests that have been done, also in the context of choosing abroad or in other tests we have done, methods have been developed whereby you work in calendar-like form with the storage of different lists, with which you can search the candidate and the number in the voting booth together. The third element, therefore, is not only the polling room and the voting booth, which is that the candidate lists are always sent to the home address at the moment. Around this temporary experimental law we choose to send the candidate lists to the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u8	The Minister said that there has been a test and there are people involved. I spoke in my term of office about the ability to do it. Have there been people involved for whom it is already quite complicated to work with a large ballot at all? Soon there will be a small group that says: we can all do that. However, it is important that the average Dutchman can handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u9	Several tests have already been done. Some tests were carried out during the elections in 2018 and 2021. In addition, people have just cast a vote in the polling room. After they went out, they were taken in by people who asked: do you want to cast your vote in another way? So those were people who had not been informed in advance of the fact that this would happen. That went well. Developing the form and other matters is also done with experience experts, i.e. with people who are visually impaired, blind or low-literate. For example, it is tested whether it is also easy for people who have other skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u10	But were those ballots where you had to tick two booths, like what we're talking about in Model 2?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u11	Oh, yeah. At the point of validity or invalid I'll come back later. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the evaluation in greater detail later. This point of recognition of the candidates is an explicit point for me to take up in the evaluation and to ensure that this comes back to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u12	I find it interesting to hear that certain experiments have apparently already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u13	Testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u14	Testing, anyway. The Minister says: that went well. Can the Minister state what the criteria are for "good"? Has any prejudice been taken into account, namely that people who have already cast a vote already knew which person they had voted for, making it easier to look back in that way? While when people are in a voting booth and often still have to make their decision about the party and the person, this model could indeed disrupt the free electoral process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u15	Anyway, you're not going to develop these models and templates in one night ice cream. That means that you always improve it again and again as a result of the insights you get. So the process is going well, because you keep improving it. But the first version of such a thing always requires improvement, I say to Mr Van Hattem. The picture we have here today is that it is very manageable for the associations and the civil society organisations that I have just mentioned. Then there are questions relating to the supervision of voters. In experiments, it is clearly not the case that, as with the tests, people are attacked after they get out of the voting booth. At the beginning of an experiment people will be informed of course. That's what you do with a leaflet, a website and a practice opportunity. If this bill is adopted and if it comes to an experiment, there is, of course, a whole process to inform people that a different way of voting is expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u16	What then prevents the Minister from saying: in real elections, we are going to do an experiment in which, as a test, people are going to vote again in addition to the existing voting booth. They will know in advance what is going to happen instead of doing it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u17	The tricky thing is that in the end you can never check whether the same vote was taken. There is such a thing as voting secret. In that sense, you cannot check whether one voice is the same as the other, because in principle another should not know what someone voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u18	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u19	That makes sense, but the point here is: how can we know if the experiment is going on as desired or expected? When people actually vote, we do not know whether they have voted what they really intended to vote. Maybe they were in the voting booth and thought: "I'm just making a round, because I can't find the candidate I was looking for" or "I'm taking the first one on the list again, because this is the easiest one." How does that even weigh in such an experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u20	We know from the elections, of course, what is normally about the average of invalid votes. So you can see from that that if, for example, there is a much higher percentage coming from an experiment, there is probably a disproportionateness. You can also ask people afterwards about a number of aspects. But it's really important to work that out carefully. On the question of how broad this evaluation looks, come back in another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u21	I would like to continue on this point. I had indeed made that suggestion: let people just vote in the old way and in the new way. The big advantage of that would be that you can at least check if it's as close together as possible. Suppose you say we don't; let's do the experiment directly. Imagine, for example, that there would be a huge discrepancy with the normal invalid votes, or errors. Then you've had quite a negative impact on an election. So why don't you do it in conjunction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u22	We have already carried out that process in the past period, in 2018 and 2021. We also asked people to vote once again after they had voted, on the basis of the current forms. But officially checking that someone has cast the same vote is not possible. That is also my answer to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u23	I understand. I also understand the Minister's reasoning. Only, you say, 'we have already tried it once, because we have said to a number of people who voted, 'do it in a different way'. The moment you say that, I can't imagine that being questioned, because that would mean that during the experiment the voting secret was broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u24	That does not rule out the fact that we have already done this in 2014, 2015, 2018 and 2021; I forgot just two more years. But we have already seen when voting from abroad that it actually leads to good results. So I understand on the one hand that Mr Schalk says: take it carefully. But that is also what we have done in this preliminary phase. The second thing I would like to say to Mr Schalk is that, precisely because we have gained this experience, we are now putting this temporary experimental law before this Chamber, so that we can actually do something about it in practice. I'll be right back to validity and invalidity. Mr. Chairman. Mr Doornhof asks: what is the connection when a new electoral system is introduced? I had to see where Mr. Doornhof was, but now I see him. I say to him that both model 1 and model 2 is the intention to take model 2 if the legislative proposal is adopted and is suitable for a new electoral system. So in that sense, it's future-proof. Mr. Chairman. Mr Doornhof also asked: is there anything to see in the comparison of how many votes are cast on the first candidate or the preferred candidate, if you look at the normal votes and voting with another ballot? The tests in 2018 also compared the number of votes on the test ballot and on the current ballot at number 1 and on the candidates that are low on the list. In any event, the comparison did not show any significant difference at the time. So the difference wasn't even in one percent, but in one tenth of one percent, on a larger number. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay asked: what does it look like in practice? I mentioned that in the polling room, where you enter, there are just all the names, and that in the voting booth there is now a chunk with the different lists and the candidates and the numbers. That snapper naturally falls back at the moment you leave the voting booth, so that someone else can't see that it is open on, for example, 50PLUS, or on the list Nanninga. I also say to Mrs Baay that if the bill is adopted, of course we still have an experimental decision to take. It's being hung from this room. Mrs Baay can then see if she thinks that is sufficiently firm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u25	I hear the minister say "in the form of a calendar." With the participation of a large number of parties, with all candidates, it seems to me to be a rather extensive book. I wonder if that would be such an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u26	The image is that these can be pretty good papers, with bigger letters. If you have 22 parties, you have 22 pages, so to speak. A calendar has 365, I say with a wink to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u27	I do not think we should strive for such a number of parties. That would be very complicated. I also had the question as to how much more time this will take. Someone has to go through that calendar in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u28	That's why we personally send the candidate list to people at home during the experiments, not at home address. One of the elements of the evaluation will be that we will see in a number of places how long someone is busy casting his voice. We compare that to a place where someone votes in the classic way. That is precisely why it is important that it is a temporary experimental law. On these points you only get insight when you put it into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u29	That calendar is suddenly new in the story. In the written round I asked what it would all look like in practice. Apparently, there was no answer to that at the time. Apparently, the Minister now has concrete ideas. That raises questions for me, too. I understand that the calendar will be in the voting booth in paper form. Of course, that's a little vandalism-sensitive. If a malicious voter is in the voting booth and sees the page of the PVV, he thinks: I rip out the page of the PVV, or I scratch a particular candidate, or I pollute that page. All that can happen in one of those voting booths. Should the head of the polling station check with every voter who has been to see if all the pages in the calendar are still present and intact, and whether they are still complete? Otherwise, we run the risk of getting messed up like that. Now everyone gets a ballot every time, with all the names on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u30	The question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u31	It is good that Mr Van Hattem asked if the Minister knew this already. Yes, but the question is to what level of detail do I answer the questions of the Chamber? I understand the point. That's valid. You want something... I'm looking for a good Dutch translation of something that always works quite well in English.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u32	Robust?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u33	You want something that's robust. Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. That's a better word than I had in my head. In society, we already have many ways to shape things robustly, whether with coating or with something else. That is what I am saying, like Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u34	You can make something robust, but I'm thinking of another word. That's "assproof." It could just be that there are real bastards in the voting booth. Unfortunately, there are those in our society. I also deliberately use the word "polluting." I'm sorry to have to make it distasteful, but I can just imagine people spitting in it, or I know what, making such a piece unusable or unmanageable. Can the Minister indicate whether this is being taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u35	When it comes to the first term, I conclude that Mr Van Hattem can read light thoughts, but I find the word 'robust' more appropriate in this Chamber. When it comes to voting, things are often already in the voting booth, such as the tuning for people who are visually impaired or blind. There are also other facilities in the voting booth. I am pleased to see that people in the Netherlands generally handle their voting rights carefully. In general, they leave the voting booth neatly behind. The practice is that members of the polls regularly check the voting booth. I also visited The Hague during the last municipal elections. They often have extra stock when it turns out that something is sensitive to this. But the experience in the Netherlands is that people are in that voting booth with care. And that is also good, because the electoral process is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u36	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u37	If that is with the same care as, for example, destroying election posters and getting smeared or threatening candidates, which we all experience around elections, then I think that if there is such a thing as a standard thing, there will always be assholes who deal with it improperly. How great is the risk that with paint, with lipstick or with whatever...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u38	With respect, Mr. Van Hattem, you're repeating your question. The Minister can repeat the answer one more time and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u39	There are two elements in Mr Van Hattem's question. First of all, it doesn't matter which party it is. You stay away from the other one's election poster. That is democracy; you must be able to vote. The second is that, at the time you make such a device, with the names of the different parties on it, it has to be robust, have a good coating and must be stuck. During the day a number of times will have to be checked if the voting booth is still in place. The practice is that the polling booth is checked by the polling booth members every so many times to see if it's still in place properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u40	Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u41	Then at a convenient point. Several Members talked about the validity and invalidity of votes and the difference between voting from abroad, on which the Leijten amendment was adopted, and this law, when only the party and not the candidate is coloured on the ballot, is the vote invalid. The legislation for voting from abroad is that if only the party is coloured, the vote cast is deemed to be a vote on the first candidate and this vote is therefore valid. First of all, I want to explain why we chose this structure. I would then like to explain, also in connection with the contributions of the various Members, including Mr Kox, what steps could perhaps be taken in this regard. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on the reason why we chose in this legislative proposal to have a vote on the party and not on a candidate as well as an invalid vote. That has to do, among other things, with the advice of the Election Council. The Election Council is concerned that if we put this into effect, you would sneak into a party system, even in such an experimental law. In the opinion we received from the Election Board on this bill, it was preferable to allow this to be an invalid vote. On the other hand, Mr Kox was the first to put forward in his speech, and Mr Koole also said in an interrupting speech that it is a temporary experimental law, in which, with Mr Schalk's words, you do not want the electorate to be disproportionately disadvantaged by the fact that you are implementing a temporary experimental law, where there is a difference between one system and the other. As a minister, having heard the Chamber, I can agree with the line of reasoning that this can also be a serious argument. The second question is whether, legally speaking, you could regulate the same thing with this bill as with the Leijten amendment, namely that a vote cast on a party and not on a candidate is a valid vote, because it is supposed to be a vote on the first person on the list. This is an experimental law, now I come more into the legal section, and it has the system that the legislative proposal sets out the principles within which experiments may be carried out and which articles of the Kieswet may be derogated from. The practical development of the experiments follows in the experimental decision. If the bill is passed, the experimental decision will still be placed in this Chamber. In the experimental decision, as Minister, I can regulate the validity of the votes. Given the structure of the law, I can arrange in the experimental decision, i.e. in the AMvB, that a vote is valid even if it is only cast on the party and the candidate is therefore not filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u42	It's very interesting what the Minister says here. I first thought this bill wouldn't allow it, because that would be in the law itself, and you actually need a novelle if you want to change that. Do I understand the Minister correctly that there is no need for a legislative amendment to equalise the treatment of these two proposals, those of Dutch voters abroad and those of voters in the experimental community, but that this can be done via an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u43	That's right, I'll tell Mr. Koole. The system of this experimental law is that you disable articles. This means that the derogations from the Kieswet should be explicitly determined in the experimental decision. You can therefore also explicitly decide that the validity of the vote cast is regulated in such a way that a vote on the party is also a valid vote on the first candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u44	I understand that the Minister has also listened to the advice of the Election Council. But that advice of the Election Council was, of course, before the Leijten amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u45	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u46	Couldn't that lead to... Is the Minister prepared to agree to actually do it through that decision, as is possible? Could the Minister give that to this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u47	I have widely heard that this is a concern of the Chamber and an important element in order to carry out a good experiment. I am prepared, as a minister, to include this in the experimental decision. Since this decision is put before the Chambers, it is then up to the Second and the First Chamber to see if this is a good interpretation. But it is quite black and white, because then I simply rule whatever the Leijten amendment regulates. For me, it's a bit of an assessment of how the House of Representatives looks at that. On the other hand, they also voted in favour of the Leijten amendment by a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u48	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u49	I very much welcome the commitment that it comes into that decision. That decision goes through both chambers. This means that the Minister will make sure that in the decision as submitted to the Chambers there is no longer a distinction between the validity of the two systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u50	Yes, and that the system of the Leijten amendment is incorporated into the experimental law. I also think, just in the spirit of what you indicated, that you should see how to make an experimental law work properly. I hear widely in this Chamber that it is important to ensure that a voice is not lost unnecessarily in such a new system. I find that very important in such an experiment. The Council of State will, of course, have to look at such an experimental decision. The Council of State gave a blank opinion on this bill, but that was before the Leijten amendment was adopted. In that sense, I naturally have a duty to motivate the Council of State why we are using this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u51	Thank you for this commitment. I still have one more question. You are now focusing on the situation in which the electorate ticks the party booth, but not a candidate number and therefore the vote becomes valid. But what happens if the voter only ticks a number and not a party booth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u52	That's a good question. I should also like to look at how the Leijten amendment has dealt with this. That only reflects the fact that you're ticking a party and not a candidate. The other way round, therefore, the Leijten amendment does not regulate it. My proposal would be that. My answer to Mr Dittrich is therefore: no. I have heard the argument of consistency in the Chamber. My suggestion would be that I should not introduce another variant. I am really sticking to what the House of Representatives has established with the Leijten amendment. It might be good to say what the reasoning behind it is. I just had to think through it, I say to Mr Dittrich. In case he mentioned, you can't determine which party the vote goes to, because you're ticking a number with a list. So you have numbers 1 through 20 or number 1 through 40. For example, you choose number 2. However, you didn't cross a lot. So you don't know which party that song belongs to. That's not possible. I had to think about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u53	But if you look at model 2, you can see that the list of numbers is under the party and the logo of the party. In itself, therefore, it could be logical that number 32 belongs to the party above. Do I understand you correctly that if a voter only ticks the number, you say: no, we are not going to settle that in that decision; then it remains an invalid vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u54	That would be my proposal, because it is also in line with the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u55	Thanks to the Minister. That's how we're supposed to debate, I think. If we all see something that can just be arranged in a different way, then we have to do it. That commitment could therefore be sufficient. May I ask the Minister to take a look at it? The explanatory statement, the response, states twice that the vote is then invalid. Then you can make a decision that goes against what was said in the interpretation of the law. I am thinking of motions for resolutions that have once been adopted here, about not saying anything that goes against the higher rules in the case of lower regulations. I would therefore ask the Minister to check that again. If it turns out that's not entirely certain, then the law needs to be repaired. But I'd like to leave it to the Minister to investigate. For the rest, I think it is excellent to do so as Mr Dittrich says. We might make it better. But then we shoot in our foot again, because then it does not comply with the other law. So I think that is a reasonable proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u56	I will say to Mr Kox that I will look again at whether the legal way in which we intend to deal with this is the most appropriate way. My legal lawyers have indicated that it can be done, but we will look at it carefully again. If that is not a careful option, then the alternative is, of course, a novelle. In the meantime, however, I have received this guarantee. I am assured that a novelle is not needed. But I'll ask the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u57	In fact, the answer to an important part of my question has already been given. The answer does not therefore need to be repeated by the Minister. But the Minister also mentioned the Council of State. Maybe that can be taken from the week as well. Can the Minister promise that we will be re-coupled before next week's votes or that there will indeed be no problem? Then we can do the voting the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u58	It's an experimental decision anyway. That goes through the Council of State. It will, as Mr Schalk knows, deliver an opinion. Mr Leijten's amendment has passed with the consideration of the legislative proposal. That didn't react. I just want to say that I always have to take a swing in there for a while. At the same time, as a minister, I always have the opportunity, of course, to deal with the opinions of the Council of State. If they are critical of me, however, I always deal with them carefully. The Election Council also presented it not as a law of Medes and Persians, but as a concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u59	I think that's what this whole room shares. It has taken a firm approach to this in the first term. I think it would be helpful if we could at least be confirmed by next Tuesday that the Minister has checked at the various levels, or indeed it can be as she says it, so that we will not be faced with legislation, explanatory notes and the like later on that would say something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u60	Of course, you also have a second term, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u61	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I should also like to look at Mr Kox and Mr Schalk. What Mr Schalk is referring to, in my view, is that sometimes that can also help. I can see how many people are thinking, it's Ascension Day. I am going to see if I can send a short note before the votes, in which it is just as well written down. I ask the President if I can send that letter at the beginning of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u62	If the Chamber agrees, because you know I'm in the service of this Chamber. I see heads nodding, so the answer is yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the functioning of the models. In fact, we have already come back to a number of aspects of it in the event of interruption, such as the tests conducted in parallel with the real elections. I have already said a number of things about this. Mr Meijer has had experience of this as a member of the polling committee and, in my opinion, as head of a polling station. So I think I'm going to say some things he knows like no other, but I think it's okay to name them here. Associations like the Eye Association and the PCOB and other organizations many of you will recognize that.... have pointed out that a smaller ballot voters who, because of their physical condition, are not able to cope with the current ballot really are better able to vote with a tool. Blind people and visually impaired people vote with a mold. You have to imagine that if you have such a big note that mold is just as big as that. Then it's really quite a task. For a smaller ballot you can create a more applicable mould with more information on it, so that they can vote faster together with audio. The mould in combination with the audio has already been extensively tested by experienced experts. It is important that when the experiments are carried out, we involve the experience experts and also those organisations. I mentioned earlier that it is important not only to send people at home the list of candidates and explanations about a different way of voting, but also to have people practiced on the Internet and elsewhere, to have a digital practice facility, and simply to provide comprehensive information. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox asked why the logos could not actually be placed on the normal ballot. It's gonna take a change to the Tickets Act anyway, if that's what we're gonna do. It is also extremely complicated with the current number of parties for the Lower House elections anyway, but also for the elections in a number of municipalities to do so, also because the name of a party is unlimited. So it really requires a completely different way of putting it together. Something else is whether you are obliged to have a logo to participate in the elections. In any case, I do not think that is the intention, because a party should also be able to choose not to have a logo. Mr Dittrich asked whether the models would change the way in which a voter could give a power of attorney to another voter. That is not the case. Mrs Baay asked that this is also important to the extent to which people who are low-lettered are looked at and whether it is ensured that if you do such an experiment, enough low-lettered people can vote. I had indeed written in the explanatory statement that we want to experiment mainly in smaller municipalities, i.e. municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants. Mr Van Hattem also mentioned this. I think it is good, heard the debate here in the Chamber, to see if we could also do an experiment in a medium-sized municipality, because it covers a number of issues that several Members have raised. Mr. Chairman. A valid point was: when should you decide on a recount? I would like to say to Mr Koole that we are simply following the system of the Tickets Act. Even in experiments, it is always up to the representative body to conclude whether a recount is necessary. Sorry, I mean a re-vote. This may be necessary, for example, on the basis of the number of invalid votes cast. If that is a disproportionate number, then it is up to the representative body, for example the Council, to decide. I would like to keep that to an experiment, because one can of course conclude with a smaller municipality that many invalid votes have been cast rather than with a medium-sized municipality, where many more votes are cast. I would really like to leave that competence with the representative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u64	What the Minister says is clear, namely: the representative body. That is the answer to the question: who decides? But the question was also: when is there disproportionateness? Could the Minister provide the representative bodies with a framework so that they can say when there is a disproportionate number of invalid votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u65	I certainly want to think about a certain framework to see what are about the right margins. My question to Mr Koole is whether I can do that in the context of the experimental decision. I would then like to come back to this question, because that gives me the opportunity to weigh this up and to see if we could give some clues for that. I would like to be a little careful that I give a direction now, because I believe that this requires careful weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u66	I think it would be a good thing if this were included in the decision, if there were only one framework for the public representative bodies to know when they would be able to find out about it. I'd like that answer to be there. The minister just slipped up. She said "recount," but she meant "revote." According to some colleagues, I did the same this afternoon. It is really about a re-voting with ordinary ballots according to the classic method and not according to the experimental law. According to the Minister, is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u67	Yes, that's right: a re-vote with the ordinary ballot. My wording of the net wasn't correct. I would not like to regulate such a framework directly in the experimental decision because the board has that competence, but I would like to write more about which handles they can use. Otherwise, I will be very much involved in their autonomy when it comes to the elections, and I would like to be very careful of that as a minister. So I would not like to lay that down in rules, but I would like to give a number of clues for what they can think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u68	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u69	That's how I understood it. The representative body takes the decision, but that gives you a number of tools on the basis of which it can take that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u70	I'm afraid we're getting on a bit of a dangerous ground here after all. If there is a risk of a re-vote, for example because of a large number of invalid votes... In municipal councils, especially in smaller municipalities, a lot of things can depend on just a few votes difference. So one seat extra or a particular party may or may not be in the council: it is often only a few votes different in municipal elections. A limited additional number of invalid votes can therefore already have major consequences at that level. To what extent does the Minister take account of the fact that this has a much greater effect at local level than in the case of, for example, the Lower House elections, where a somewhat larger margin is possible? Is it even justified to do it in such a setting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u71	In the current law, recounting and re-voting are also possible. It rarely happens, however, because one often retells, retells and retells to reach a certain outcome. One hardly ever comes to a re-vote. So it's no other situation than in the normal voting process. So I do not see any other risks in that, because it just goes according to the normal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u72	But the normal situation is often about recounting to see if it went well according to the existing electoral process. Now we're going to do an experiment that can create quite different effects and vote for larger numbers of invalids. Just those larger numbers of invalid votes, as I said "with a very small margin extra," can have big effects. Let me give you an example. Let me mention a fictitious party: forward! If the ten votes are too short for an extra council seat, but the other local parties do not feel like recounting, then the majority of the council says: we are not going to do that; sorry, but this does not suit us, because that might cost us votes. Then you end up in a political minefield at a local level. Should we, as a national legislator, simply not be ahead of it, if at that local level such interests can be decisive in a council decision to reschedule?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u73	Mr Van Hattem has already concluded in his speech that there will be much more invalid votes, while the tests we have done over the past few years do not show that there is a high degree of invalid votes. I follow Mr Van Hattem when he says you have to do trials carefully. But I do not follow his conclusion in advance that there will be much more invalid votes. The difference in understanding that Mr Van Hattem and I have on this point makes it important to start doing experiments, to actually evaluate these kinds of things in practice from testing to experiments and to gain further insights. I therefore do not share his conclusion in advance that it leads to more invalid votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u74	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u75	Finally, I would like to focus on this aspect. It's not about "a lot more." As I said, such a smaller municipality could really be a very limited number, perhaps a few votes or a few dozen votes at most. They can often make all the difference between an extra council seat or not. The margins are so small that the risk at local level is simply extra high.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u76	That's a repeat, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u77	Yes, but I have not yet had a clear answer to precisely the aspect of those very limited margins. Maybe there is little difference in invalid voices, but if there is a difference, it has a big impact. That is why my question is once again how the Minister deals with these limited margins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u78	Just like in the standing practice, that you first recount to see if the differences remain. A first recount sometimes leads to a second recount, until there is a fixed image. That is also the current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u79	Following on from Mr Van Hattem's question, I would like to read a message from last year's NOS: 65,000 votes, especially 70-plussers, were not counted as errors in the voting of letters. So that's about a whole Chamber seat. With 6% of the letter voices something went wrong: either it was in the wrong envelope, because it had to be in an envelope, or the voice card was not attached. It was a fairly clear system in which a change occurred, and that led to 65,000, 6%, invalid votes. I have a question for the Minister. If such a simple letter voting procedure leads to so many errors, how can the Minister be so sure that this experiment will not yield all kinds of high margins of error? I must agree with Mr Van Hattem. That risk seems to me to be quite considerable, based on what we have just experienced with the letter vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u80	These are, of course, two different situations in different circumstances. The letter vote was introduced in a short time, because at that time we were still in a corona situation with a rather low vaccination rate. At the last minute, one had to organize, or at least my predecessor, that people could cast their votes and vote for older people. On the one hand, we have experience with this on the basis of tests from 2014, 2015, 2018 and 2021. This shows that at least the images or insights we now have are that the number of invalid votes is not very different from the normal voting process. But if we really want to know this, we're gonna have to do an experiment with each other to figure out exactly what the outcome is. The picture is that we are developing the ballot together with civil society organisations and that we are also testing it, to see how it works, in order to try to minimize any uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u81	But I do notice that many people, and certainly older people, are creatures of habit. In their heads, it's going to vote in a certain way. If you're going to change that, it apparently leads to serious errors in a particular target group, in serious numbers. In that respect, I am not entirely reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u82	This bill has a preparation time of about eight years and the letter vote during the period of corona had to be completed within about three months. But I hear very clearly a call from Mr Otten to do it with utmost care if we continue to implement it. I couldn't agree more. That is why we have this law and later an experimental decision, with a whole information programme, to deal with it carefully. That is also why I am not putting a law right here to use another ballot. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linden indeed asked about the use and registration of logos. I have already indicated a number of things about this. That can be done in itself, but that is an amendment to the Election Act based on the current ballot. This is going to be quite a complicated operation, because in this context you need to get even more information on the current ballot. Some members already talked about the small font, but we were actually already at the end of the possibilities. Mr Van der Linden also asked about the experience with the CRAFT-Lean method. Indeed, around 40% of the municipalities use a form of the commercial CRAFT-Lean counting method. They have good experiences with this. I see Mr Beuker nodding, so I just nod at Mr Beukering. We ourselves monitor these developments in the counting methods, so when we see good things, of course, we also take care of them. Mr Van der Linden also asked about counting the new model ballot. He stressed the importance of you counting in public, and I totally agree with him. Then people can see it and follow the process well. He also mentioned the recounts in Maassluis. Indeed, it was found that voices had shifted from one party to another. I have just spoken in the debate with Mr Van Hattem about the process of recounting, how it is done several times and how it is possible to recount in a situation like this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the aspect of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u83	Because the minister goes to the next block, one more question about those models. One of the questions I had asked was how long we were going to continue experimenting with model 2. If that were not to be successful, is there still enough time to experiment with model 1 within the legal period, which is up to ten years? When's it gonna end? Is there still sufficient time left for a possible other model?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u84	I do have that expectation. In any case, I would like to share with this Chamber the evaluation of the first vote on model 2, that is what I wanted to say. I also think that this is the right time to discuss with the Chamber the further development of model 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u85	So I understand perfectly well that after the experiment with model 2, whatever the outcome, the Minister always talks with both chambers again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u86	At least I'd like to send the evaluations to the Chamber. Then, of course, it is up to the Chamber to discuss this with me or not. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich, Mr Meijer and Mr Schalk asked about the evaluation criteria. Each experiment shall be evaluated. That is also laid down in the bill. My intention is to include the criteria for evaluation in the temporary experimental decision. At any rate, evaluation criteria include the appreciation of the electorate for the use of the ballot, including the format and logos, the appreciation of the electorate for the use of the candidates' overview, the training material and tools such as the mould, the extent to which the voters found the counting of the new ballots easier than counting the current ballots, the number of invalid votes and the reasons for them, the organisational consequences of using the new ballot for the electoral process, the costs of the experiment and also the aspect of the recognition of candidates. As I indicated, I will, of course, forward the evaluation to the Second and First Chambers, and then discuss further with the Chamber the use of the next steps with the introduction of the ballot. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole's question and, in my view, Mrs Baay's question was also whether relevant interest groups were included. I have already mentioned a number of them. I think it is very important to involve experience experts, in order to get good input from different sides. Then there was also a question about responsibility, about carrying out the evaluation under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. My picture is that, as in the normal municipal elections, we have a research agency do the evaluation. I meant by "responsibility" that after that, of course, as minister, I would just write the letter to the Chamber. The conclusions I give to the results of the evaluation and the subsequent steps I take, of course, I always do myself as a minister. That's why it said "responsibility." Well, at least I'd like to finish this bill. I should like to say a few words about cohesion. I would like to move on to the legislative proposal concerning voters outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u87	I had also asked the Minister whether, should the evaluation show that model 2 is actually very successful, she would be prepared to completely delete model 1. Or is that always hanging over the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u88	I just promised that after the first experiment and the evaluation, I will consider what follow-up steps I'm going to take. I don't want to anticipate that. For example, the conclusion may also be that I am not going to experiment with the first model, because the second model is just going well. But at this stage, I do not want to rule that out entirely, because, of course, we must first look at how it works in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u89	I understand from the Minister's words that she still wants to retain the possibility of introducing or experimenting with model 1, but I do not think I know to what extent the Minister agrees with me that this requires a much more complicated structure than model 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u90	There is indeed an appropriate reason why we should start with model 2. That is the best tested and tested so far and has the best basis. If not only I as Minister, but also the Chambers conclude that Model 1 is not really a future-proof model, then we can always change the AMvB again, but I do not want to say at this stage that I delete model 1. It is also up to the Court to consider this law. To sum it up: we start with model 2 and if it turns out that model 1 is not necessary, we can always get that out of the experimental decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u91	Let me get this straight. I had understood from the answer to the written questions that if model 2 is successful, there is no longer any transition to model 1. The Minister seemed to be keeping it open now, whether it still has to be. It can't be done anymore. But from the answer to the questions I understand that if model 2 is successful, there is no further experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u92	Mr. Chairman. If indeed the first experiments show that model 2 is successful, I do not intend to deploy model 1. I cannot, of course, fully conclude at this stage that model 2 is successful. I also say to this Chamber that model 1 is not yet in the experimental decision that I am going to submit. I only come to the Chamber with model 2 with the experimental decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u93	Building on it. We are not now getting an answer to the questions that have been asked about model 1. I asked about the waste and the like. So that question could come back if the experimental decision is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u94	That's right. But Mr Schalk is right: you need more paper for it. That model is therefore less sustainable. Then I come to the legislative proposal Final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands. Mr Van Hattem and Mrs Baay asked about e-mail addresses and ballots. The starting point is that voters outside the Netherlands receive their ballot by e-mail. If no e-mail address is available or voters wish to receive their ballots by post, the ballot will be sent by post. The vote shall be cast in all cases on paper. The ballot paper sent by e-mail or post will then be completed and sent to the Bureau. They asked if you could check another choice later. That was Mrs Baay's question. Yeah, you can. There can always be a switch. The choice of how people want to receive their ballot can be changed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u95	Let me return to the previous point on the postal vote. Many people abroad in certain foreign countries, I have to say, complain about poor accessibility. Letters disappear, you name it. In 50 countries where most Dutch people live abroad, the Netherlands Foundation has made a proposal to create a sort of postal address where these things are sent instead of to the Netherlands. Then it will be sent from there to The Hague. Would that be something the Minister finds interesting to investigate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u96	I know Mr Keij's commitment. For many years now, for more than ten years, I think he has been keen to organise the voices from abroad better. The registration of non-residents is one of the steps. This is also one of those steps, where people can also receive it by e-mail. I shall come back to that in the second term, because it is a rather specific question. If Mr Dittrich is okay with it, I will come back to it in the second term, whether it is worth investigating or not, and whether we already have something like that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u97	I get it. I'm fine with that. One more argument for that. If the ballot is filled in and sent to The Hague, it may take weeks before it arrives in The Hague or it may disappear. Then that proposal could be very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u98	I get the ratio behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u99	The reason for this bill was precisely that delivery by mail would often be unreliable, in the sense that it could take too long. That is why the e-mail procedure was set up. The Minister states that the possibility remains to do it by post and that the people who have not given up an e-mail will also receive it by post. Can the Minister state what this means in practice? Is it indicated: if you do it by post, do you run the risk that it will not arrive in time? Or is the government going to say something about reliability and timeliness in a different way? If this were to remain in force, it would not have been necessary to set up the e-mail procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u100	I understand Mrs Baay's question, and I understand it so well: there are just people who are less digitally skilled. They find it difficult to handle their e-mail and sometimes worry about it. I say that there must always be a paper alternative by post for them. I say to Mr Van Hattem: e-mail is an extremely good tool, because it is fast and reliable, at least when people pass on the right e-mail address. But I understand very well that Mrs Baay says: "There are also people living abroad who are less digitally skilled. They really find it very complicated to do that by e-mail. You should be able to send it to them by post." When it comes to the postal system, my experience is that people abroad have a good idea of the reliability of the mail they receive. Of course, we will indicate in the communication that by e-mail is faster than by post.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u101	It is not just a matter of speeding up the process, but also of ensuring that it is sufficiently reliable and timely. If people get that mail, can they trust that it will be processed in time after they send it? That was precisely why it was said: we have to work with e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u102	The Hague is the central polling office for this type of business. This is done for the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. They point people individually to the existing possibilities and the risks if you choose mail instead of mail. It allows people to make their own decisions. I understand very well that Mrs Baay says: the possibility of mail must remain open, because some people are simply less digitally skilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u103	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u104	I agree with that last point. At least it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u105	Ms Baay asked if there was any connection to the Basic Registration Persons. If a voter no longer lives abroad outside the Netherlands, but settles back in the Netherlands and fails to pass that on for himself, the best thing is of course if people pass this on themselves.The municipality of The Hague receives a so-called spontaneous provision from the Basic Registration Persons. The municipality of The Hague keeps records of non-residents. It says where people live abroad. Someone goes back from abroad to the Netherlands and forget to pass on to The Hague "get me out of registration non-residents." If they do register with the Basic Registration Persons, the BRP communicates with the municipality of The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Then a number of questions were asked about e-mails, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten and a comparison with abroad. I have to go back to the islands myself as a minister. The culture of elections is that people go by the door personally to talk to people and to get information from them. I see a number of people nodding in the hall. Almost all candidates there want to talk to people in person. This leads in those situations to suddenly get the same e-mail address from different sides. Of course, that's different when you live in a foreign country like Namibia. That's where you live a long way from each other. Then the candidate won't just walk by your door. When it comes to the islands, the City of The Hague sends all votes to the offices of the Representation of the Netherlands in these three countries. When the votes have arrived, the voter will receive a personal message. The voter can then easily pick up the votes at the office of the Representation. The voter can therefore simply leave his letter voice at the Representation. So there are also two distinct situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u106	Mr. Van Hattem, can you be brief? It's your tenth interruption, 30 questions. You may also be able to keep it until your next term, because this way you also dominate the debate enormously. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u107	This may also save a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u108	No, because you'll get it anyway. You have already signed up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u109	It will probably be a lot shorter than what I have registered for. That's to reassure you. The following point was made. With "foreign" I am not talking about Namibia, but for example about countries where large groups of people from abroad have come to live in Dutch society and have returned to those countries. As an example, I mentioned a country like Turkey. There can certainly be something of electoral influence there. I refer to the practices there concerning Mr Erdogan's AK party, which is trying to obtain all kinds of representatives in national parliaments. It is precisely in order to prevent such activities, such electoral manipulation, that the Minister can indicate why the risk in those countries is not distinguished and that risk was mentioned for the ABC islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u110	With regard to the involvement of parties in elections, for example from Turkey, in the forthcoming elections, this is of course also an issue for the Minister of Justice and Security to deal with. I do not know whether it was done by the PVV or any other party who asked written questions about it. But that is another issue; it is about influence. The Minister for Justice and Security has a separate programme on this, which I believe is country-neutral. But if I want to say a little more about that, I really have to do it in the second term, because then I'm doing it a little more carefully than I am now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u111	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u112	Then I come to a number of general questions that have been asked about the coherence of the various legislative proposals. I would like to pledge to this Chamber that I will also send the evaluation of the municipal elections to this Chamber. Let me say something about the coherence of the proposals contained in the 2030 Election Agenda to give an idea of this. In any case, we refer to each other in the various legislative proposals which have different proportions. On one point, including in the context of the election turnout, I fully agree with Mr Van Hattem. Several Members have said it, but I stress it: I find the turnout in the municipal elections, which is the lowest ever, worrying too. That is exactly why I am making explicit additional research, above what I normally do in order to gain more insight into the reasons why people did not vote. So I share Mr Van Hattem's concern. Despite the fact that we do know why people do not vote, for various reasons, we would also like to focus on the local elections, which was precisely the reason for people to leave their voices at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u113	That low turnout is an important point. Apart from the "disconnect" that has occurred with many politicians during the corona crisis, for example, thousands of people did not get a vote pass in Amsterdam, because they have disappeared from the post. So we can experiment with all nice ballots, but I figured this out. I've contacted the municipality about that, too. So it turned out that to the south of the Stadionweg nobody had a voting pass. That was about thousands of people. Those people all got a note saying: you can pick up your voting card at the district office. The report of the results showed that only 59 of those thousands of people had done so. This is already a factor which is certainly not conducive to a high turnout, apart from the macrofactors that still exist. So a form of voice through DigiD or e-mail might in the long run give rise to a higher turnout than if those voice cards disappear or are not delivered. There's a whole ghost game whether it was TPG Post, or the municipality...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u115	... but that doesn't help, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u116	Your advice is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u117	This is also why a number of major cities, such as Rotterdam and Amsterdam, are also evaluating themselves. Their evaluation is part of my evaluation, because I want to see what lessons they have learned and which lessons I can take from it. I would come back to the experiment in Switzerland with e-vote votes. I understand that's ended by now. The reason for this was the different findings on the safety and high cost of the system. Belgium has also recently carried out research into digital voices. They were concerned about safety guarantees, but also about transparency and accountability. At the same time, I also agree with Members that we should continue to look at the voting process, including in the coming years, to see if there are any new developments that will allow us to vote safely. At the moment, however, I still have to conclude that voting is not safe enough in a different way, for example along the digital road. Mr. Chairman. I found the weighting that Mr Schalk made in his speech a nice explanation. He was talking about the different interests, or values, I think "values" is a nice word, which is also in the voting process and how you can weigh them differently. In the end, Mr Schalk talked about the ease of the electorate. It is precisely the balance that should ultimately lead to a careful electoral process, in which the electorate can vote well. In doing so, the various interests he spoke about must be weighed up. Mr President, I am assuming that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u118	It seems that Mr Schalk has not yet done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u119	It is good that the Minister indicates that the convenience of the electorate is a good value. I turned the voter's ease against the safety of the trial. I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u120	Sure. I believe that the reliability of the election results should not be at the expense of the convenience of the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u121	Thank you, Minister. Then we now come to the second term of office. I shall continue the debate and give the floor to Mr Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Special thanks to the Minister for the very clear answers she has given, and in particular for the commitment. It's been a big help. My group's principle of voting on people rather than on songs weighs heavily on us. We will take all the answers and all the contributions of colleagues to this debate with us to the group. We'll see about that. We will consider whether we should change our position if necessary. I'll come back to that later. We have no further questions. Thank you again for the clarity of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u123	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA can see the problem of the hard-to-hand ballot. The Minister has once again explained how this is thought of from the elderly, migrants and visually impaired. The Minister stressed that counting could go better if you started with the experimental ballots. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, during the first term, I put considerable salt on the consequences for the recognition of individual candidates. There are now three parts to be distinguished in the answer given by the Minister. One. The Minister says that we must ensure that we also work in a different way within the polling station on recognizability when you see only the numbers on the ballot, not the names. Two. The minister came back at my first term, in which I referred to the tests, or tests. She said that we were able to draw certain conclusions from that. That is true, but I specifically asked if you could draw any conclusions from that. The question is, for example, what really happens to a voter when he is in the voting booth, and how he really looks at the relationship between the party and the candidate in his choice. That's a complicated game. You can ask the question whether you can really answer that politically. The Minister explicitly mentioned this as the final point for the evaluation to be carried out during the experiment. The question is whether you can really answer that at the end of the day. Senator Koole said in the direction of the Nanninga Group: it's a bit of feeling what you're doing, but you should also do research. My group recognises that. The question is whether you're gonna get out of here eventually. Eventually, you're gonna have to make a balance of interests. The Minister also referred to this in reply to what Mr Schalk said: you will have to balance interests. How do you look at the advantages of this experiment on the one hand and the recognition of individual candidates on the other, which we really experience as a problem? Mr President, the final point. Let me say it out loud once again: I would have preferred to have had this discussion when we have that legislative proposal with one vote more chance, including the renewal of the system and the strengthening of regional components in the electoral system. That is also the original idea of the Remkes State Commission. Now the Minister said, perhaps a little between the nose and the lips, that model 2 can simply be incorporated into the new system. I still question that very carefully. It is precisely the discussion about whether or not that is true and whether or not you will give a vote on a candidate as much value as a vote on a list, as a vote on a list, that I would have liked to have entered into with the Minister at that time. But my group is now being asked to say yes or no to this experiment. We will look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u125	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group. And then much shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u126	I promise it won't be seven minutes at least, Mr President. Speaking time has only been written with the fork. Thank you to the Minister for the first-term reply and also for the active consideration in this Chamber. Nevertheless, as PVV, we do not continue to support these plans. I always have to remember what happened about 30 years ago when the voting machines were introduced. That was also one of those experiments that did not turn out to be very successful, since they have been abolished for years. My grandfather, about 80 years old, had to vote. He couldn't handle that voting machine. He couldn't find the candidate of his preference either. He didn't want to expose his voting secret by going to the polling station, so he didn't vote for the candidate he preferred. I think he finally voted for Frits Bolkestein, so the VVD was a bacon buyer. Anyway, that's history. The fact is that a party that is the most prominent may benefit from it, given this anecdote. Then I come to the point of whether it is desirable for the candidate to become a number instead of a name. With the promises made by the Minister, that has still not been resolved, because you are maintaining the system. That is also the objection that was rightly raised in the Lower House, among other things by Mrs Arib. I therefore continue to find it incomprehensible that the PvdA and GroenLinks in this Chamber so easily put this aside. Then I come to the point the Minister has made, namely that it is being evaluated whether the candidate for the vote is less visible to the electorate. Can the Minister state on what grounds that is being evaluated? How is that visibility determined, and by whom? Is there anything left to say about that? Then there's the risk of re-voting. I have already mentioned this a few times in the interruption. That, of course, remains a huge risk. That is something you should not expose a democratic process to. To put it bluntly: experimenting on a democratic process is actually vivisection on the electorate. That's something you shouldn't want. This is just cutting into the election process, with irreversible steps. We have seen that the turnout is already terribly low. The turnout is going to be even lower in a re-vote. Please don't touch the election process! Do an unofficial investigation, but just let the elections go and look ahead! Let me turn to the next point. That is something that is still coming, because from Brussels there are all kinds of terrible ideas coming to us, such as the European electoral act that is being prepared. They will also work with transnational electoral lists. If this is to be experimented with over the next few years, what does that mean with complex systems of this kind that all need to be shaped in this way? Has it been taken into account that there might be a list of candidates from I-don't-know-how many countries on the list? How does that work in such a system? The same applies to combined elections, for example municipal elections linked to a local referendum. Is that sufficiently taken into account? Or are things like this made unnecessarily difficult? Finally, I had a few outstanding questions. I have not yet had a reply to the question as to why software and computers are now being relied on in the electronic counting process and why voting machines are still rightly not. In replying in the second term on voting abroad, I had the question of whether the addresses abroad could be trusted in this way, or whether they would end up in Turkey, for example, with the AK party. Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u127	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the comprehensive and clear answer to my group's questions. In my first term I emphasized the undesirableness of the difference between voters from abroad and voters within the Netherlands as regards the validity of a vote on the party alone. The Minister's express commitment to eliminate this difference through an AMvB, so that this inequality will lapse, is a very welcome communication for my group. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, an important pain point has been removed. My group was also given the impression that, if evaluation shows that model 2 is successful, the possibility is not imaginary. That too is a welcome announcement. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the following. I will advise my group to vote in favour of both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u129	I call Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u130	Mr. Chairman. It may be added that I also speak on behalf of the Animal Party in the first and second terms. Well, that's all I'm saying. I got a good sense from this debate, because I thought it was an extremely useful debate, as it should be. I said at the beginning of my first term that improvements to and access to a ballot should be welcomed. Then we have to look at the implementation. I've been watching Alexander van Hattem say, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah." That reminds me of a young son who used to say, "Yes, but, yes, yes." I don't have that attitude. I also have no idea that this government, or the previous government, has been thinking: how are we going to bully the voters so much that no one is coming? But the future will tell. I indicated that there were fundamental and practical objections to us. I shall now turn to the objections in principle. I think we are still differing on the practical objections. I do not think it is decisive for this Chamber to say: you cannot get past that. I think the law could have been better, but if I really wanted it better, I should have sat in the Lower House. The House of Representatives must do the right thing and we must prevent evil. I come to that part: to prevent evil. In this case, that was an experiment, which can be understood, which leads to legal inequality between voters. I don't think the latter can be tolerated. I am extremely pleased that the Minister is not at all difficult or complicated about this. She says that this Chamber actually has a point, from the left to the right, and I am going to see what I can do about it. We get a letter on this: if we can do it through a decision, then we do it, and we have to do it through a novelle, then we do it that way. I think that's a very neat approach. Then we've played our part. I am also confident that the House of Representatives will look at this with a positive basic attitude. One final comment, Mr President. What's the most important thing, the voter or the counter? Mr Schalk pointed that out. The voter is really the most important in this case. It is of course nice when it all goes very quickly and well and so on. But I find it less when the one time we have elections about five minutes after you vote is said: this is the result and go do something fun with your evening. I've always liked to sit at polling stations to count. I remember one more incident. During the elections in Russia, my knowledge at the time, Ljoedmila Aleksejeva, was always in all elections. She died two years ago. She sat at the minimum distance of all ballots and asked, in the middle of the heart of Moscow, about every ballot: can I see that again? She was as good as blind, so she also had an eye on it. It took hours. But I thought if we had had more of those Ljoedmilas, it might have helped Russia a little bit. If you can do it faster, I'm okay with that. But if the celebration of democracy requires us to go on until the hour is short, then I do not think that is such a big problem. The Minister will understand that, following her attitude in this Chamber, I will advise my group to say yes to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Koole. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for her first-term reply. I think we have had a very good debate here. After all, it is about free and fair elections. They are absolutely necessary for a democracy. These legislative proposals are intended to contribute to this, so that as many voters as possible participate. The same applies to the people with disabilities. Sometimes they still have trouble dealing with the giant ballots. The proposal for a law on experiments says that we are going to see if we can improve that. It therefore becomes more manageable for the counters. However, I have made it clear in my questions that the electorate is more important than the counters. That's what Mr. Kox said. I also welcome the fact that the State Committee was mentioned as one of the reasons why this bill was tabled. That committee has made all kinds of proposals. Moreover, it is not the case that the State Committee has proposed to make the regional vote heavier. However, the state committee has proposed a electoral system in which voters can express it if they consider regional votes to be important. For example, if they think expertise is important, they can also shine through it. And if they think male-female relationships are important, they can shine it through. All in all, these were the reasons that led to these proposals. I am very pleased with the commitments that have been made, such as the commitment to involve interest groups in the evaluation in one way or another. I think it is very good to include the interest groups for people with disabilities. I also welcome the commitment to define a framework for what exactly should be understood as 'inequanimity', even if the people's representatives decide. I am also pleased with the commitment to remove inequalities between voters using different ballots. That's very important to us. Can we do that through a decision? Then it can be made through a decision. Do you have to do that through a novelle? Then it has to be done through a novelle. That is also a very important commitment for us. I have one more question. It's about the evaluation. The Minister mentioned a number of criteria and points taken into account in the evaluation. Are the same cases being investigated in municipalities where votes are taken in the classic way? Because then you can really see the differences. So can this not only be done in the experimental communities, but also in a number of municipalities where votes are taken in the old way? Then you'll get it a little clearer. A few words were said about voting in letters. That's one point I thought was: what was that about? 25,000 was 8% of the 800,000 people over 70 years of age. The follow-up to the procedure had also to be mentioned. The Minister, in consultation with the Election Council and the Council of State, said that we could still have some of those now invalid or put aside votes valid, because people had used the wrong envelope. This led to significantly less invalid votes among that group than the 65,000 it was just about. All in all, I think it has been a very good debate. It is indeed about free and fair elections in which as many people as possible can participate, including those with disabilities. This is very important for the Labour Party. That is also very important for GroenLinks (Greens/EFA, NL) and I speak on their behalf too. On the basis of this debate, I will at least give my group a positive vote opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u133	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Dittrich. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u134	Mr President, thank you. First of all, of course, thanks to the Minister. It has only become clear to me in this debate that many tests have been carried out in previous years. They've actually been the upshot to this bill on experiments. That is actually important for the understanding of the legislative proposal. Thank you, therefore, for the Minister's emphasis on this. I am, of course, very pleased with the promise made by the Minister, the round undertaking, that in the decision of the experiment the validity of the vote should be taken into account if someone has ticked one booth, because that was a great concern of D66 and it has been removed. The Minister mentioned the evaluation criteria to be included in the experimental decision. Maybe there'll be more. I do not have the impression that that was a very exhaustive list. That experiment decision is sent to both chambers, so we can keep a finger on the wrist. As far as my group is concerned, it is important that we also look closely at the consequences of the numbering. One of the objections to this experiment is that people are made into numbers. It is, of course, very difficult to find out what that is like in the minds of voters who have voted, but it is important that we at least look at it. In the second term, the Minister will return to the aspect of foreign mail voting and perhaps opening a postal address in 50 countries. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this. And then I'm already at my conclusion, Mr President, and that's that it's a little bit too much to make as a lawyer a little bit of a reservation on the Minister's letter, depending on the content of the letter she's going to send. Let's say it's going to shed a whole new light on the case. Then I need this reservation, but I expect that it is not, and then I can advise my group to vote in favour of both legislative proposals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u136	Mr. Chairman. Keine Experimente. That's what I brought up during the debate. That was a slogan by Adenauer in the fifties. People's representatives shouldn't be numbers. This is not conducive to the link between the electorate and the elected. Mr Koole also felt that he had the exclusive right to expertise as a social scientist. I would like to point out to him that I am an economist, including a social science, even a social science. Transparency, that is what elections are all about, and that starts with a transparent ballot box. That is why we have the next motion. The: Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a growing gap between voters on the one hand and politics and public administration on the other;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands, unlike most other countries, transparent ballot boxes are not used in which the ballot papers are filed in a visible and transparent manner by the electorate, thus improving the transparency of the voting process and the confidence in democratic elections;]] [[calls on the government to stop using opaque cliques as a ballot box in elections and to replace all ballot boxes at the next elections with transparent transparent ballot boxes as is customary in other countries, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35455-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u137	Mr. Chairman. It will take more than that to regain the confidence of the voters. That is why, exceptionally, a second motion and that is the next one. The: Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a growing gap between voters on the one hand and politics and public administration on the other;]] [[Whereas the confidence of many voters in politics and governance has been declining for a long time and is subject to increasing erosion;]] [[Whereas there is an increasing need for an electoral system that responds to these concerns and that a moderate district system as a electoral system similar to the German Zweitstimme system, whereby the first vote on a candidate in the district and the second vote on the party of preference can be an effective solution to improve the link between the electorate and the elected party;]] [[Whereas a second vote on the Prime Minister could also help to make the administration of the Netherlands more effective and democratically legitimate;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of introducing a two-vote system during the Lower Parliamentary elections, for example by analogy with the German system, or a system whereby the electorate may vote one vote of the party of his preference and one vote of the Prime Minister, and inform the Chamber thereof before mid 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35455-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u138	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for the factual and substantive answer. Nevertheless, we will not vote in favour of the first legislative proposal. We will consider the international bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u139	Mr Otten talks about the next Lower House elections, with a look at 2023, but as far as I am concerned, those elections may take place earlier. That would be very desirable. But apart from that, I hear Mr Otten say in his motion that it is good to use transparent ballot boxes. There's something to be said for that. In the past we have used these glorified milk cans, in which voices were put. How does that relate to the voting secret? Suppose someone puts a ballot note in there and the ballot note falls open in such a transparent bus, so that people from outside might be able to see what they voted. Is that another factor that weighs in on this motion? How does Mr Otten view the risk of damaging voting secrecy in this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u140	Well, that's very simple. We've been discussing that problem all day. That ballot is so huge that you can fold it up incredibly well so that it doesn't become visible at all. So I wouldn't see a problem with that. People have said to me about these klickos: how do we know, when we vote, that there weren't already ballots in there? That is a legitimate question in itself. You can't control that, because it's not transparent. This is something I've been looking at for a long time. In the average Third World country, they do this even more transparently, although of course it is still the question of what happens to those votes afterwards. In France too, and so on, this is in a very transparent way. It's a lucky accident that we have that big ballot. You can fold that up very well, so that voice becomes invisible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u141	Mr. Van Hattem has a short supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u142	Of course, the question remains whether this large ballot will stand if this experimental law is adopted today. I am afraid that argument will no longer apply. But it is indeed important to make sure that the ballot box is empty, because I remember that in the elections to the First Chamber and the Provincial States...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u143	No, Mr. Van Hattem. You will have the opportunity to ask a short question, but no more anecdotes. We are now approaching the end of this debate. Go ahead. A short question or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u144	My brief question is whether voting secrecy is indeed sufficiently guaranteed. Does Mr Otten think that additional steps are needed in addition to this motion in order to do this properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u145	It is, of course, very important that voting secrecy is guaranteed. I would advise the Minister to see how this is done abroad. If this law is passed, the advantage for Mr Van Hattem is that the names of the people to whom the vote is made are no longer visible on the banknote. It only goes through numbers then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u146	One last piece of advice, though. Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u147	That's a practical point. Although, of course, I am always very interested in Mr Van Hattem's anecdotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u148	No, this is the end of your speaking time. I am now going to Mr Meijer, who will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u149	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. That's usually the obligatory beginning of a second term. But in this case it is a little less obligatory, because I thought the answer was excellent, including at the point I asked for: people with disabilities and low-literate people. Those organisations have argued in favour of a different ballot. Thank you for the explanation. I am also very pleased that the debate was not only an exchange of views but also of arguments, and that positions can change in a debate. We don't deal with that much of this. Thank you very much for the commitment on the validity of the votes. You tasted that the majority was a bit uncomfortable in this, so that's what I like about this debate. I would have liked the Minister to convince me of a different position than I had in the first term, but in the first period I was already in favour of the two legislative proposals. I will now give my group even more enthusiastic advice on voting in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u150	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Finally, Mr Schalk has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I have to tell you quite frankly that I actually went into the debate in a positive way this afternoon, but that I am going through the debate a little bit more negatively, in particular on the issue of legal inequality. Tonight, however, I was pleasantly surprised by the Minister's commitment. I will also honestly say that I would have prepared a motion if that had not been the case, because, of course, we must prevent the adoption of a law that could lead to legal inequality. When the Minister had promised to do so, I had to look for a moment during the debate in the response of 21 January, for example. At that time I saw that apparently a number of times had been asked for this same point, but in those answers the answer remained very solid that it would then be invalid. But in this debate, the Minister has completely changed his mind and pointed out the decision to experiment. The Minister has promised a short note. We look forward to that. I hope that there is a clear statement that the Minister has so much power of expression that the legal history can be overcome in such an experimental decision. That's a great help. If that is the case, my group can give a positive opinion on the two legislative proposals. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u152	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then, on request, I shall suspend for a short time, namely until 9:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u153	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u154	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contribution to the second term. Thank you for the exchange of views we have had! I have received a number of supplementary questions and two motions have been tabled. I'll start with the questions I've been asked and then close with the motions. Indeed, Mr Dittrich asked what possibilities there are for people living abroad to send their information to certain places, so that there is less risk than if they were sent to The Hague, for example. The New Procedure Act establishes electoral results at present in this Chamber........................................................................................................................................................... They then collect those envelopes and forward them to The Hague, together with the diplomatic post.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u155	That sounds very nice. Does this apply to all countries or to a limited number of countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u156	As we have included it in the draft law that is before us here, the same applies to all diplomatic and consular representations. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Koole's question about the evaluation. Do we compare it with places where a normal voting procedure has taken place during the evaluation? It is our intention to do so on a number of elements, for example to compare how long it takes to vote under the temporary experimental law and how long it takes when you just do it with the classic ballot we have. It is also good to do this in terms of the recognition of candidates and the number of preferred votes that have been cast. That's one of those elements that you can compare. So where it is useful and possible, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u157	And I suppose it's also about the degree of invalid votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u158	That's something else you can do. On the points where it is useful and possible, we must indeed make that comparison. Then there is Mr Van Hattem's point about electronic counting. It's not like if you enter electronic counting, you're equal to manual checking. Also when counting electronic votes you will have to keep checking the votes manually, so there is a certain amount of manualness in it too. This means that we do not rely entirely on electronic counting, but still take a test. Then there is the issue of the undesirable foreign interference that can take place in the context of elections. In March 2018 this Chamber was also informed about the approach to unwanted foreign interference. We still have them in 2022. The Minister for Justice and Security will continue to examine whether this approach is still sufficient. This approach is country-neutral and consists of three parts. The first is that we increase the resilience of groups in the Netherlands that may be negatively affected by unwanted foreign interference. Increasing this resilience is always tailor-made. If there are current or imminent incidents, for example in the framework of elections in Turkey, the Minister of Justice also acts in a coordinated and disruptive manner, in cooperation with the national and local levels. We also consistently engage in dialogue with countries that do so; the diplomatic trail. If I have understood correctly, another point is that three months before the elections there can no longer be an active campaign by candidates here in the Netherlands. But then it is about elections abroad and not so much elections in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u159	Thanks for the answer, but I had specifically asked under the present law whether the risks posed by the e-mail addresses to be provided would also be considered. Could this, as happened in the Antilles, also happen in other countries with addresses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u160	The sending of the ballot to Dutch voters outside the Netherlands by e-mail has been possible since the entry into force of the Experimentenwet e-election abroad in 2013. So far we have no evidence of fraud or incidents in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u161	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u162	But is there any extra, proactive check on whether that does not happen, especially if this is given a permanent status? That's different than there's no sign of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u163	Anyway, if you want to vote with a letter vote, you must of course also add a copy of your ID certificate in addition to the ballot. That's an extra check that's always there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the electoral act, which is actually an adjoining discussion. To this end, the proposal has indeed been adopted in the European Parliament. That proposal has yet to be sent to the European Council. As soon as that is done, the cabinet will take a position and inform the Chamber accordingly according to the usual procedure. Another point I would like to stress is that, for the history of law, we are certainly coming up with a letter stating that we are otherwise resolving the nullity of the votes for various reasons. Like Mr Dittrich, I am a lawyer from background. You won't know for sure until you write it down, but here I have real confidence, also on the basis of excellent advice from legislative lawyers, that this is a good practice. Moreover, I have made it clear that this Chamber attaches great importance to the careful treatment of the AMvB on the experimental decision. I would like to point out to the Chamber that I am no longer going to use the reclassification elections to start an experiment, because I really want to have the debate with both Chambers as carefully as possible. I would like to make that clear, also on the basis of this debate. Then there are the two motions that have been tabled. The first motion is about the opaque cliques. I have just looked up, I say to Mr Otten, what demands we make on ballot boxes. That's mostly that they need to be locked down. Wherever you put the ballot through, it should also be closed. We have no demands on the colour of the boxes. That's what the municipalities really are about. If all the municipalities now need to buy transparent, transparent ballot boxes, this is still quite a financial blow. They are not just on the market. I just really want to leave this with the municipalities themselves. So I'm deceiving the motion. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the request to examine the possibility of introducing the system by two votes. That is what the State Committee on Parliament's system has been examining. On that, she advised negatively. I'm preparing another bill. I therefore also advise against Mr Otten's second motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Hattem, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u165	Thanks for the answer so far. I had a few outstanding points. I had asked about the situation in the case of a joint election, when, for example, a local referendum is involved. Is that even applicable in this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u166	In principle, I think that should be applicable. But if the bill is passed, I will carefully consider whether I will choose a combined election for the first moment of the experiment or, for example, the next election in 2024. I'll make a further assessment. It's a fair question to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u167	Maybe one very brief follow-up question. The Minister indicated that the step would not therefore be taken in the autumn reclassification elections. Will the starting point still be to do it first in municipal elections at least, or will other elections already be envisaged?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u168	It can be done in municipal elections, but also in the European Parliament elections. By the way, local referendums are not covered by this system. I will see whether the joint elections, the state elections and the waterboard elections are the right time or whether the European Parliament elections of the following year are a good time. I'll weigh that even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u169	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u170	The point is correct: the elaboration of the state elections is even more far-reaching. Then I would like to ask you not to do so, because an experiment will have far more far-reaching consequences if it does not work out as expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u171	A good point from Mr Van Hattem. In the context of the experimental decision, I will also consider this further and let the Chamber know which elections we will be the first to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u172	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-10.u173	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the draft Temporary Experiment Law on new ballots, 35455? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next week. Would one of the Members like to vote on the legislative proposal Final introduction of the new ballot for voters outside the Netherlands? That is also the case. I propose that we vote on this bill next week, too, and I propose that we vote on the motions tabled next week. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members and the staff who have enabled this sitting and this pleasant debate to take place. I'll close the meeting and wish you home.
