ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Spring paper 2022. I give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. During the debate on the declaration of government in January, I spoke about the changing spirit of time and how the current coalition agreement is thus a mirror of the government agreement of the first purple cabinet. This changing spirit of time has a new story, a story for a time beyond individualization. A lot of people in this country feel intrinsically that things have to be different. The longing for a Netherlands that is less hunted, a little more sammy, less me, more us. More together also means less alone. We live in a time of great challenges, where the belief in the neoliberal promise that we would all be better off if we pursued our own interests for ourselves as much as possible has now been extinguished. Every man for himself and the State for all of us doesn't work. Today's loneliness is also the feeling of being alone in a world with increasing challenges, a shortage of homes, rising prices and growing inequality. The Easter weekend at Schiphol Airport brought this dichotomy into view. On the one hand, people were very angry, waiting long in a line. On the other hand, however, there was awareness that they were angry because there were too few people who wanted to handle luggage for a low wage, and an airport that had to acknowledge that there was little to do about it because baggage handling had been outsourced for reasons of efficiency. The current coalition agreement takes important steps towards a better Netherlands. To give a few examples: the return of housing policies, the abolition of the loan system and the reform of the labour market. Paper's patient. The same applies to a coalition agreement. The ink is hardly dry and yet, after six months of major changes, we are discussing major changes that have been necessary in the first half of the year following the conclusion of the coalition agreement. We're restoring the link between the AOW and the minimum wage. We're gonna raise the minimum wage sooner than we were supposed to, and we're gonna invest a lot more in Defense. That's a lot of money. However, the need for these adjustments is obvious. The war in Ukraine, a war on the European continent, has completely reversed geopolitical reality. This has demonstrated the need for Europe to grow up geopolitically. That is why I believe that there is broad support in this House for the fact that there is substantial additional investment in Defence, on top of the billions already foreseen in the coalition agreement. The consequences of the war on inflation and energy prices, in addition to the court rulings on box 3, also forced us to go back to the drawing table, on top of the remaining purchasing power figures for older people with AOW alone, already observed in January. In October and March, billions were already earmarked for compensatory measures for purchasing power and energy prices. The question of whether that is sufficient is entirely justified. We must face them together today. That is what is happening here in the debate. With the worrying figures that came from the CPB last week, and certainly in the black scenario, the question is whether everything we have already done, and that is a lot, is still sufficient. I ended before the suspension with a question to Mr Kuik, following proposals made by PvdA and GroenLinks to introduce a solidarity levy, a contribution for companies that make overprofits thanks to the war in Ukraine and the high energy and fuel prices. My group considers this to be a very sympathetic idea. During the Corona era, the CDA itself put forward proposals to introduce such a solidarity levy for companies that made a great deal of money at the time. My colleague Amhaouch tabled a motion on this at that time. The answer came from the cabinet, in my opinion, from then Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief, that this could not be done. In the end, in the coalition agreement, we chose to increase the Vpb. At the same time, this is happening in other countries. This has already been brought into the debate by various parties. That is why the question is whether this would still not be possible. Or might it be possible? The idea of using the solidarity levy to provide a purchasing power for low and middle incomes at this time of screaming inflation and rising energy prices is a sympathetic and good idea that needs to be considered seriously. My question to the cabinet is therefore: will the cabinet look seriously at this again, and not just at the question of whether this is possible, but also how quickly this could be done? Is this soon feasible, and possibly already this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	I believe that it is good news for the Labour Party and the Green Left and for their support for the Spring Paper that you are doing your best to get this proposal to work. By the way, a lot of people will also be happy with that €500, you know. Absolutely. I hope that the proposal will succeed, because it is a good proposal. People have been helped with that. But even if it makes it, it's not nearly enough. Look at the financial problems people are having right now. I have mentioned a number of examples of this. Of course you can do a lot with €500, but it takes a lot more than that. People have problems with their energy bills, their health insurance and their medicines. If you still have a car as a small self-employed person, it's hard to pull it off with your petrol or dieseltank. I would ask you to reflect on that. Again, it is nice if you do something for the people at home in return for the support of the aforementioned parties for the spring note. It'll be those people else sausage why you do that, as long as they get that money. Beautiful, but do you agree with me that that is not nearly enough to solve the problems of a lot of people every month, not only at the bottom, but also people who work, and sometimes two-earers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Let me start with what I said in my contribution and later in the case of interruption: a great deal has already been done. We don't start at zero. Some measures are still in place. In October, 3 billion was earmarked for purchasing power compensation. In March another 3 billion was earmarked. In the spring note, barely a month ago, we raised the minimum wage increase, restored the link with the AOW and the cost of travel increased. Mr Paternotte quoted the VAT on energy. I think it's going down on July 1st. A lot has been done. At the same time, Mr Wilders' question is correct: is it not too little? That is why I have said on the basis of the proposals that we may need to take another step. I am sympathetic to this proposal, which also has some consequences, because we have proposed it ourselves earlier. In addition, the Spring Paper states that in August the cabinet will look at the relationship between the taxation of assets and the taxation of labour. That is a movement that we, as CDA, strongly support. This can mean a great deal for the lower middle groups Mr Wilders is talking about not only now, occasionally, but also structurally. That is why the discussion will not end today, but will continue this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Wilders, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	I don't know why this is my last question. I think this is my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	We agreed with each other: a total of six questions to our colleagues. And we've agreed that we're heading towards Cabinet, if the interruptions are short...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	This is my sixth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u10	Okay. Then this is my last question. You're talking about a number of things that have been done. Mrs. Kuik was just talking about it. If you look at what you're doing for the AOW, that's a giant cigar out of your own box. I believe that this measure costs 2.3 billion and that you are simply paying it for 1.6 billion or 1.7 billion for two-thirds of the budget by failing to continue with the old discount and more of those kinds of jokes, so that is a big cigar from your own box. I insist that you cannot explain to the Netherlands that you are spending tens of billions on matters such as asylum seekers and on climate and nitrogen matters on which we may differ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Perhaps, if the amendment tabled by colleagues from GroenLinks and PvdA makes it, there will be another 2.5 billion. Then you have 8.5 billion for the people of the Netherlands, while you spend hundreds of billions or have reserved for climate, nitrogen, immigration and asylum. Those aren't relationships. I'm telling you, what's more important? That we're going to do some extra nitrogen, what you want to do, or that people can get their medicine? That people don't have to lie in bed with a scarf, but can just turn on the heating. What's more important? Politics is choosing. It's prioritizing. You must now choose the wallet of the people and have ideological discussions another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think we have had too few ideological discussions in this house for years, so I do not agree with that in any case. I am very much in favour of ideological discussions, because they form the basis of the choices we make. Mr Wilders' presentation of things is not entirely justified. The 6 billion I mentioned are two measures already taken in October and March, specifically to address purchasing power because of rising prices. In the Spring paper, which I mentioned, structural shifts are still taking place, which means that the people who have it wide, people who have wealth and companies that make profits are going to pay more taxes. We're going to use that money to raise the minimum wage faster and to restore the link with the AOW. Indeed, choices have been made as to how that can be covered, but hundreds of millions are added. This follows from the discussion we had in January because we wanted to do something extra for the purchasing power of older people who are not broad. That wasn't meant for people who have a lot of money. The problem with the old age discount as it was, was that it did not apply to the AOWs without a supplementary pension. That was a point that Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen stressed in that debate. There are choices in that. You can also see in the tables that just those groups that have the crampedest are making the most progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Wilders, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u13	I'm talking about this year. I'm not talking about everything you're saying about the minimum wage, the clutch and the AOW, apart from the cigar from your own box. That's all 2023. I'm talking about this year. The people are having trouble paying the energy bill and the groceries at the Aldi or Albert Heijn, or wherever they go. They're having trouble getting by right now. Everything you just mentioned is all next year. You have to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u14	What Mr Wilders is saying here is not true at all. Several of the measures that I mentioned started last year and this year. I mentioned that things were still going on on 1 July. In addition, we are taking measures that start from 1 January and are structural in nature, which follow from the discussion we have had here in this house. Then Mr Wilders can still say that it is not enough to do so, but Mr Wilders' performance is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u16	By the way, politics is making choices in scarcity. That's not easy. That is what Mrs Hermans said earlier. Carrying responsibility is always more complicated than not carrying responsibility. I'd like to finish my contribution, Mr. Chairman. I started talking about the need for the new story: a story of less me and more us. For the answer to the great uncertainties of the time in which we live is restoration of trust. This requires solidarity and a society built on values such as empathy and reciprocity. What's been worn in for 30 years, we don't change at the push of a button. This requires commitment, conviction and perseverance. We owe that to each other, because together we form the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr President, thank you. 24 February 2022: the moment that the world changed forever. I remember very well that we were standing here for the declaration of government and that I started my contribution with: there is currently a build-up of troops outside Ukraine. If Putin really invades, what else does the world look like? Then we have a whole different conversation. We've had that conversation a number of times with each other, and that's what we're having today. Mr. Chairman. The world has changed. The world has become less stable and less secure. I would like to talk about three aspects. It is up to us to guide the Netherlands through these turbulent times on our way to a new era. We must do this in the Netherlands, within the European Union and in the world. It calls for new stability. It starts with saying goodbye to old thoughts, for example the idea that my party might be able to spend less on defence. But also the idea that parties on the right have lived that it is not so bad that you are dependent on Putin's gas and that you need to invest in gas pipelines from Russia. This calls for a new reality. I'm glad we're going down that road together. It is therefore important that we do more to tackle climate change and not less. In that light, I also find it really unimaginable that money is being extracted from the climate funds. You can say it's not about that much money, but it's about the principle. It is a longer-term task. If you're making money there at the first setback, that's the wrong signal. Mr. Chairman. While we are meeting here and talking about the Netherlands, I will be speaking about this in a moment. I would like to zoom out what is happening in Europe. In the discussion with the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, I raised the issue of rising spreads as one of the issues. At that time it was said that interest rates in northern and southern Europe were rather low. But today, as we stand here, the ECB is meeting. This is a major threat to our stability. Everyone may think that rising prices and what is happening in Ukraine are already difficult to manage, but if things go wrong in the south of Europe then we simply have another euro crisis. I would like to know from the cabinet how we are preparing for this. Is the instruments developed in the previous crisis sufficient to cope with another crisis? For reign is forethought; we must look further ahead. The answers I received last time were unsatisfactory. Then the stability in the Netherlands. The prices are rising. The Netherlands is becoming collectively poorer. That's why it's impossible to compensate everyone. We cannot create a balanced purchasing power picture for everyone. That's not gonna happen. It's fair to say that as a politician. But for whom we have to do everything we can, the million people that the CPB is talking about are those who are already unable to make ends meet and who are about to sink through the ice. We can't wait until next year to take steps. That is my big objection in this debate. I understand that there will be another review in August, I understand that we are taking new measures before 2023, but you need to do more. My group has already put forward proposals for this this spring, together with the Labour Party. Once again, we are putting very concrete proposals on the table. We think that raising the healthcare allowance, so giving an extra supplement to those people, is the best and the fastest and the most targeted way to ensure that they get something at least. Not all problems have been solved, but we can help them with that. I think too little has been done. I'm not saying nothing happened, but I think too little has been done. The minimum wage could simply have been raised on 1 July. In fact, that's what happens. The Minister for Social Affairs has made the decision, as she does every year, to index the minimum wage. It was a political choice to do that with more than what is standard. That choice was not made by this cabinet. That wasn't pushed by this coalition. That's a missed opportunity, and that's why we need to do more. I am glad, however, that I can see that there is an outstretched hand when it comes to the solidarity levy proposed by the Labour Party and the Green Left. I'm happy about that, and I'm gonna need it. They can't get there until next year. So that's what we'll have to talk about on Prince's Day. But I can see that there is a majority here who does. I would like to say that we already know what can and can't be done. If we want to make that tax very targeted, focused on one profitable sector and very specific, then I think the Secretary of State for Fiscal Affairs is going crazy and so are his officials. So by definition, you're gonna have to choose something that goes wider. One might think of a temporary increase in the Vpb, as the CDA had in its election programme. That is what the Labour Party and GroenLinks propose. That is one way of ensuring that the 5% most profitable companies.... are not going to pay an additional contribution, but only the 5% most profitable companies............................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think we should take that step. Mr. Chairman. Stability in Europe. Stability in the Netherlands, ensuring that the people who live here and can't make ends meet now, is important. The conflict with Ukraine is going to last for a very long time and we must maintain our support for Dutch society. But we also need to look further. It is good that we are investing in Defence, because we need to make sure that we are ready and that we show Putin that we are not afraid, but that we are taking a step forward. But the world is bigger and everyone says geopolitics is back. Geopolitics consists of more than investing in Defense. In some parts of the world, look at the Horn of Africa, people die of hunger; one dies every 48 seconds. These are bizarre numbers, and that also calls for an extra effort from the Netherlands. I ask the cabinet: what is the situation with all the obligations that the Netherlands has? Have we all complied with them? And in what way does the cabinet intend to take an extra step? Mr President, I will conclude. I want to say: the world is bigger than the Netherlands. If we are to maintain stability, we must also look very closely at what is happening on the African continent. I think that this is not happening enough right now, that we are beating on our chests that something is finally happening about Defence, but the world is bigger than the Netherlands. Making it really safe here means making sure that people in the Netherlands can keep their heads above water, doing more to help our fellow world citizens on the African continent and working together here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then we will listen to Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u20	Madam President, these are unprecedented times. A war rages in the eastern part of Europe. There's a country on fire. We see images of soldiers killed, children fleeing, we hear stories of injustice and violence. Our own country stands for different things: no air alarms, no tanks in the streets, but also above the Netherlands dark clouds gather. In our society there are gaps, and these gaps seem to be getting bigger. We are talking about a Netherlands that has been abandoned. Towering energy prices are draining the purchasing power of very ordinary people with very ordinary salaries. Everyone feels that, especially the 1.2 households that, if things get worse, come in very heavy weather. Young people wonder if they still have a place to live, there are working poor and elderly people are at risk of being left behind in their purchasing power. Companies are after corona through their buffers and gardeners sigh under the high energy prices. In fishing villages, ships are unused at the quay. Fuel is too expensive to sail and economic life is still there, with all the consequences for families and for municipalities. If we read the gloomy analyses of economists and our central bank, you know that we could be on the verge of recession. Can we reduce gaps in that situation, in those circumstances? Do we have a viable, connected and inclusive society? Mr. Chairman. Above the programme of principles of the Christian Union are the words "peace search, do justice." As far as I am concerned, these words should be at the heart of politics. That's what I'm trying to do in my place in my own way: seek peace and do justice. I think that with the coalition agreement and with this Spring note, a few steps have been taken towards more justice and more peace. I am also thinking of investments in defence, which are much needed in the light of current geopolitical developments. I am thinking of raising the minimum wage by 7.5% on top of the regular increase because average wages are rising. And we're linking them to benefits. In that light, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. There is an accelerated reduction in assistance in the Start note, which is still the result of a decision by Rutte II cabinet. Can I assume it's off? I couldn't find that in the spring note. It was in the Start note, though. I'd like a response to that point. But I am also thinking of the fact that this year we are giving small-income households an allowance of €800. We're temporarily reducing the energy load. And I'm thinking of restoring the link between the AOW and the statutory minimum wage. That was indeed a wish expressed by the opposition, a wish expressed by the opposition. They've been listened to. I believe that these measures promote peace and justice. Is it all enough? Have the problems been solved? No, of course not. We have to face the truth: collectively we become poorer. Colleague Kuik said so. That can't be changed. We do not want Russian gas and Russian oil anymore. The much-needed energy transition is going to cost us money, but as far as the Christian Union is concerned, it is not fair to impose heavy burdens on the weakest shoulders. That is why I ask the Cabinet to look at this year, when it looks at purchasing power in August. What else can be done? Should we not think of a solidarity levy? Shouldn't we at least make it possible? Colleagues have already asked, and I am asking, because in every crisis there are always companies that are becoming excessively rich, while there are a lot of people losing and getting into trouble. How can we still help where the pain is feeling extra? I am also thinking of fishermen, but also, for example, an entirely different chapter on the maintenance of public health services. This needs to be clarified by the provinces before 1 July. Can the cabinet respond to that? Mr. Chairman. The war also has consequences worldwide. Mr Klaver just said it when he pointed to the Horn of Africa, where it is a long time ago, where the blows are coming even harder. The costs incurred by the various ministries due to the influx of Ukrainians are paid by Finance. Think, for example, of Defence, which receives compensation for the extra fuel and goods it has supplied. When I see that 57 million from the OS budget is not reimbursed, I find that painful. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance for a response. Is she willing to say that this is a one-time thing and that if the other departments are allowed to turn in their coupons in the future, OS can do the same? Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, this Spring note is not a terminal. We must continue to ask ourselves where we can find peace and how we can do justice. What are things that divide our society and how can we reduce gaps? Are there people who have so much that people who have little can never catch up with them? Where is the injustice that we must set right? This time calls for solidarity, for closing deep gaps that split our society in two, with people on both sides of the gap feeling that their last remaining security is at stake. That is why we must continue to work for a government that stands alongside citizens and for some even stands before them as a shield. We must continue to work towards a fairer tax system in which it pays to work and in which money made from money, therefore, capital, may well be taxed a little more heavily. We must do everything we can to ensure that everyone in our country is made more secure. To seek peace, to do justice. That is the task we face. That is what we, as the Christian Union Group, will be committed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr Segers. Let me see where Mr. Van Raan is. I don't think he's giving up on his term. He's coming. Take your time, I'd say. I shall give the floor to Mr Baudet first. Then you'll go after that, Mr. Van Raan. Oh, I hear Mr Baudet's speech still needs to be printed. I don't see Mr Eerdmans yet either. Mr. Stoffer, I appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u22	Now, of course, I have to see if I have everything. Mrs. Kuik asks where I have the Bible: it is still there. Mr. Chairman. After corona, everything gets better. At least that's what we thought a few months ago. But nothing is less true, because the war in Ukraine and the rising prices of energy and messages lead to a decline in purchasing power. People cancel dental visits, don't go to swimming lessons anymore, and family visits come in because the fuel is getting way too expensive. The need is high and the future is uncertain for many people. Mr. Chairman. When the cabinet also visited the SGP wing during a tour of all political groups, we gave the cabinet three points. The first was: invest in families, in the purchasing power of households. The second was: invest in security, including in the police and the handling of vice. And invest in the region, in the accessibility of the region, employment and road safety. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the family wallet. The SGP is very concerned about purchasing power and the family wallet, but fortunately, we have heard that colleagues are doing the same. Inflation hits a lot of families very hard, especially middle income. That's where the tricky point is for us. In this respect, it is a good thing that the bad plan to freeze child benefit is off the table through the Schalk motion in the First Chamber. We have not solved all the problems and not all of them have gone. As far as we are concerned, an additional step must be taken. Mid-incomes are hardly entitled to income support, but they are now paying blue taxes. Then we're talking about care workers, teachers in schools, entrepreneurs, mechanics. They are also very often hit hard by rising energy prices. But this group is hardly supported. The cabinet is considering further raising the employment discount. It makes our system even more complicated. This makes more work even less rewarding due to the higher marginal pressure. At least as important: this widens the huge gap between one and two earners. The SGP considers that income tax should be reduced by lowering the rate in the first tranche. As a SGP, we just want the family wallet to be the focus again. As far as we are concerned, it is not an additional childcare allowance for rich people, as the cabinet is proposing, but a higher child-related budget for low and middle incomes. Of course we provide cover for that. We say stop the plan to further subsidise childcare for the rich and cancel the income-dependent combination discount next year. I have a few questions about that. My question is: if this is not taken over, how will the cabinet support the middle income? Is the cabinet prepared to reduce taxes and bring forward the abolition of the IACK, as we say? Is the Cabinet prepared to increase the child-related budget for families? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is not satisfied with all the proposals in the Spring Paper. We will come back to that in the autumn, but I am sure that I will get one point out: the AOW. We have received answers to this in the written reply, but how exactly the bill for all these AOW measures is going to be is one thing. I am also curious to know how the accumulation of proposals for different groups is working out. I would like to have more insight into that. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has been fighting for more money for the Defense Department for decades, which is why I am about to extend that compliment to the VVD. The cabinet can invest in heat pumps, in culture or through the EU Restoration Fund in Southern Europe, but if we do not have our security in order here, then the necessary foundation is missing. Peace and security are not self-evident. In this respect, it is very good that the cabinet is in the pouch. I'm really thrilled about that. I say to my fellow Members: let us not forget that. Let us not take our peace dividend again in a few years' time and think: let it sink again. I'd say let's record it. The SGP also believes that more district agents and a faster and better approach to vice should be used. It is also a good thing that the cabinet is already paying attention to this. However, I have the question of how the cabinet will strengthen the security chain and improve cooperation between supply chain partners. How does the cabinet ensure that reporting minor crime, such as house burglaries, will make sense again? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few topics from the region. The cutter fishing is in heavy weather. Partly because of the towering fuel prices, half of the cutter fleet is on shore. Surrounding countries use the space that Brussels offers for targeted support to fisheries companies. We say that we should do the same here in the Netherlands. Otherwise, companies will go under here and they will not be able to make it more sustainable. We have tabled an amendment to reserve money to support fishing. We have also tabled two amendments to improve the accessibility and vitality of the regions. First of all, we want an extra budget to reduce the funding gap for widening the lock complex at Kornwerderzand, because this broadening strengthens the maritime cluster and economic development in the IJsselmeer area. Secondly, together with colleagues from the SP and BBB, I tabled an amendment to make the Westerschelde tunnel toll-free by 2025. This is good for the socio-economic development of Zeeland and in particular Zeeland-Flanders. Moreover, both amendments are covered from the EUR 900 million available for the regional deals. Mr. Chairman. I'm out of time. I am very curious about the answers and the response of the cabinet to my plans. I'm assuming they're all actually being granted. The Netherlands is getting a lot better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you. Thank you for asking earlier. I am looking at Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the colleagues for the coulance. I just had to get my lines. Mr. Chairman. By continuing to talk about purchasing power and dampening, the cabinet actually masks the real problem, namely the insecurity of entire groups of people who cannot meet their living needs, such as workers, the elderly, students. It is perhaps the most cynically illustrated by new cheerful sites like SecondJob.nl, where you can quickly find your second poverty job. I therefore agree with what colleagues from the SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA have said on these issues. Speaking in broad prosperity terms, this is therefore largely about the importance of the here and now. That is certainly important, very important, but good things have been said about it. Then let me focus on the other two issues of broad prosperity. What do these plans do for future generations, later, and the people who do not live in the Netherlands, the living environment elsewhere? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet withdraws 880 million from the new climate fund and 660 million from the nitrogen fund. That might make sense, but it's actually unbelievable. The risk of exceeding the 1.5 degree temperature increase within a few years is 50%. And we're in the middle of the sixth extinction wave. So our house is on fire, and so is our garden. Does the Minister of Finance agree with me that you can do an enormous amount of EUR 1.5 billion and that it is not nothing that is being taken out of the new funds now? A staggering reprioritisation: this is how the Minister of Finance covered himself. Mr. Chairman. At any rate, the priorities of this cabinet are less in the case of systemic change in the fight against poverty and the climate crisis. The cabinet says the targets are still standing. Of course, the Animal Party is happy when the same goals can be achieved with less money, if it can apparently be more efficient. But the fact that it can be more efficient also means that you can do more with the same money. And there's more to it. This morning, 400 scientists were targeting gas drilling in the North Sea. According to the Cabinet, the same can be achieved with less money by adjusting standards and by promoting environmental pollution. Then let the cabinet do the same and come up with plans. Does standardisation mean that there will finally be a climate obligation for companies? Is saving at last part of that as an enforceable duty? Will saving go hand in hand with production restrictions? Does the pricing of environmental pollution mean extending the CO levy for industry to a CO charge applicable to all CO emissions and equivalents? And does it mean, above all: stop fossil subsidies, stop supporting the death struggle of the fossil industry, where we pay billions to fossil profit makers as coal farmers RWE, while energy poverty among the low-income group is real? Mr. Chairman. The only thing that can reduce the chance of 50% exceeding the 1.5 degree within five years is if more is done for the climate on balance. But I don't see that again. Cutting in or reprioritising the climate money sends a very bad signal. The cabinet is not saving what is to be saved, but postponing what cannot be postponed. The Minister of Finance has a key position in the cabinet. What's she gonna do to prevent the rest of the fund from being stripped? When is she going to give insight into the climate fund system? Is it prepared to make demands on spending plans so that concrete expenditure can be assessed for a positive impact on the climate and on broad prosperity? At first, the Minister for Finance said: you will understand that I cannot be a credible part of a cabinet that is not using dramatic and ultimate acceleration of Dutch climate policy. Now she agrees with the first cut on that. Words matter. Mr. Chairman. In last week's Accountability debate, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have not yet been able to agree on the need for a fundamental system change to deal with the crises. Today's debate makes it clear to us that there is such a need, in the social, economic, redistribution, climate and biodiversity areas, to maintain broad prosperity for all. These plans are at best another Band-Aid. It is precisely the Minister of Finance who will understand that it can now go two ways. It's up to her to make the right choices. Does she shoot back into the fossil reflex, or does she help the cabinet with new, sustainable habits? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. Then we will listen to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of April, Mark Rutte said that Dutch people will be slightly poorer. He said "something." What does "something" mean? A study by Nibud showed that about 63% of Dutch people are too small financially. 63%. They're struggling with fears of debt. 59% must already save on daily groceries and no longer buy clothes for themselves or the children. 6% even skips meals because they can't afford it anymore. Currently, 500,000 households already have payment problems in the Netherlands. If energy prices and fixed charges remain as high as they are today, 1.2 million households will have trouble paying their fixed charges in the autumn and 190,000 of these households would even fall to pieces within three months. They're all investigating. The energy bill therefore increased by 136% over the past year. The petrol price was 20% higher and people now pay on average 10% more for their groceries than last year. The rents went through the roof and the average price of a house also increased by 14%. While the cabinet continues to blame all kinds of imaginary causes such as the situation in Ukraine and so on, it is clear that the trend has been deployed a long time ago and has been strengthened by their own choices and their own misconceptions. The situation in Ukraine and whatever you think of it has absolutely nothing to do with that. One example: in November 2021, more than four months before the situation in Ukraine started, inflation was already close to 5.5%, which increased to 6.5% in January. So that's all before a fantastic excuse that she's all on now was there. It has nothing to do with it, it is because of their own mispolicy and because of their own wrong political choices, of which I keep listing the same list. The list of measures, of beliefs that destroy our society. The ever-increasing immigration, 100,000 people net per year added in one of the full countries on earth. If you still believe that there is a nitrogen problem, then you are incredibly stupid to go on with it. But these people here, every year, with all the housing shortage we have, with all the social problems. They're going on and on. Two: the climate ideas. Even though you would believe that man actually has an impact on the climate and that CO is very important to it, what hocus is pocus and what science in the future and in history will regard as one of the great delusions of the 20th and 21st centuries, even if you would believe that, then everything we do here, which costs 1,000 billion, is a drop on a glowing plate, totally negligible on a global scale and stupid waste of money. But that's where all our money goes. Those are the excise duties on petrol. That's what you pay for at the pump. That is why they have closed the Groningen gas field instead of generously compensating the Groningen and continuing the drilling of the largest gas field in Europe. Finally, the belief in scaling up. Mergers, mergers, not only of schools, hospitals and so on, which leads to this huge sticky layer of bureaucracy in our country, but also of countries. European unification must continue. Bigger and bigger and more central. More power for the globalists. And that also means, of course, that the economies must be levelled. Since southern Europe has a debt economy and we have a savings economy through our pension funds, that means cutting back. That is what the European Central Bank has done over the past 20 years and we are now seeing it in the wallet. This is it: The Dutch pay for the globalist dreams of the people who sit there and fantasize about them at their Bilderberg conference on which they do not want to answer in our parliament. Finally. Another piece of policy has been added over the last two years, the coronawanzin. Locking the whole country for two years, locking downs and suddenly putting a lot of money into people's accounts through all kinds of support schemes. And then you don't understand that on the one hand you're disrupting the economy and on the other hand you're pumping so much money directly into the economy that you're going to get some kind of inflation wave. It's amazing that people haven't seen it yet. The big picture, everything that is discussed here, lacks this great trend. This is what we need to tackle and the solutions are very simple in the short term. I've got a line that we're gonna post, too, 'cause I see I'm gonna have to finish again. In the short term, reduce VAT on groceries and, in a structural way, reduce it back from 9% to 6% and the high VAT back from 21% to 19%. Energy tax down, no Ukrainians in our homes so house prices go down. And stop the nitrogen madness so that Dutch people can breathe again, travel again and farmers cannot be squeezed out of our society. Lots of good plans to tell in the future, but I have to finish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then we're going to listen to Mr. Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u28	Good afternoon, President, colleagues, Ministers and Secretary of State. How cool is the Netherlands? Still, the Netherlands is one of the best places to live, I think. But are we trying to keep it that way, to improve it, or is the opposite happening? Force and urge for our farmers instead of the asylum seekers who have been brought to justice. An extremely expensive and unfeasible climate policy is being rolled out without any support, while an asylum policy with reception in the region does not come into being with support. Schiphol used to be our safe haven, you were happy if you came back to the Netherlands after a holiday. Now you're standing in a sweaty, waiting line for hours. And instead of making work pay and activating the Dutch unemployed, the cabinet wants to take problem young people out of the French banlieues to fill the vacancies in the Netherlands. During covid we went backwards, social and economic life was held hostage by lockdowns and dense schools, rather than creating more places in hospitals, as my colleague Nicki Pouw-Verweij has so often pointed out. The nitrogen crisis, all life around our natural areas must be abandoned. The common thread in this story is that that car or the train, if you like, is in reverse. It's too rigid, the policy is "understand at zero and the look at infinity." In short, the cabinet exhibits neurotic behavior. Let's continue on the sofa. Because if you have neurotic behavior, you have nervous tension, negative moods, you suffer from guilt, uncertainty, overprotectiveness and fear. The result is compulsive behavior. That means imposing your guilt on others, because everyone must feel this, everyone must suffer that pain. This in turn leads to compulsive policies, such as the forced reception of asylum seekers by municipalities. Forced people to take off the gas, forced heat pumps, forced solar panels, forced closure of coal power stations and forced the farmers to buy out. Look, there's a problem with compulsion: people don't want it. There is no understanding, it runs out of our democracy. I am really worried about that with our group. Over the last 12 years, the Netherlands has slowly but surely fallen, overcrowded by unbridled immigration, suffocated by bureaucracy and rules, and made priceless by burden increase and symbolic projects, while at the same time we do not have our core tasks. I think about the housing market. There's no house to get, period. Young people live out of poverty until they're 30 at Mom and Dad's house. 300,000 properties deficit and counting. With 1 million new homes in ten years, but at the same time 100,000 immigrants every year, this cabinet therefore builds mainly to cope with the consequences of migration and not to reduce the existing housing shortage. If there is already built, because the land is burdened by a nitrogen dictatorship that also cripples the construction. But the hardest thing to do here is to hit the farmers. The farmer, and therefore our food security, got an unprecedented uppercut last week with Minister Van der Wal's plans. 70 to 80% nitrogen reduction simply means the end of countless beautiful family farms. So here again there is this irrational rigidity. I think that next week, among other things, there will be a peasant uprising in The Hague, while the solution is so obvious. Correct that Law on Nature Protection from 2015. Come up with a repair law to prevent that bald blow. Mr. Chairman. Our approach to the round of talks with the Prime Minister and Mrs Kaag in the Sand Room was clear here. We want to undo the AOW link, compensate all box 3 savers and investors, starting with the small savers, continue to invest in nuclear energy, open up the failing asylum policy, as far as we are concerned, following Denmark's example. There is now also interest from Austria in that Danish model. So that's spreading. We want to cut into the climate and nitrogen funds and, above all, direct purchasing power improvements for the middle class. Well, then comes the Spring note and then we see that that much-needed change of course is not being met at all. We thought we had the AOW coupling inside. Turns out what? In practice, it is largely a cigar from its own box for the elderly. A bite, as Mr Klaver rightly said, is being taken from the climate fund, but it is so little and so small, so that also stolen box 3 savers who have now made no objection have checked. Mr. Chairman. To improve purchasing power, which the Rutte and Kaagtournee originally started, the Netherlands can whistle. JA21 is always willing to do business in the interests of the Netherlands and, of course, in the interests of our constituents. We remain willing to go to the table to change the course for the better, but not in the form of a ritual dance, as was presented to us last month. Finally, Mr. Chairman, how do you recover from a neurosis? I see you looking at it: that's a good question. It's a good question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u29	It's different per person, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u30	It differs per person, but when I look at these three people, I think it can come down to the same thing, namely very well, whether or not with help, looking in the mirror. That's often a very good start. Let this debate have led to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u31	A follow-up question will be asked immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u32	I'd like to wait for the first term of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u33	I can imagine. Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u34	This was a fine speech by Mr Eerdmans. I always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u36	I also always like the contributions of Mr Eppink, especially when he talks about fiscal conservatism. My heart's gonna jump up a little bit. In this contribution I hear a number of wishes, but of course they have to be paid. How can this be combined with fiscal conservatism? I do not hear Mr Eerdmans talking about this. Could he perhaps say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u37	This wasn't a one-two. I'm telling you the truth. This is a spontaneous question which is not intended to give me more time. Thank you for that question. I saw with horror several parties, including the CDA, supporting the solidarity levy. We're not against that. In times of need, you don't have to tax companies even more. We're talking about getting the money out of the government's pocket. We see two large funds in which many billions have been invested, for nitrogen and for climate. In fact, in the next year's budget, there will be 9 billion in climate change. We would be the first to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u38	Those are, of course, options, but these funds, too, will eventually lead to a rise in public debt. We sometimes have the idea that the money is free, but when we look at the other side we see that the interest rates are starting to rise. Does Mr Eerdmans therefore say that we should cut structural budgets and not allow public debt, either by funds or by other expenditure, but rather by passing on to generations after us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'd rather not. That is why I say that, in my opinion, 9 or 10 billion in the budget for the coming year is at the top of the Climate Fund of 35 billion. The choice is: either you put it in a climate or nitrogen fund or you opt for purchasing power improvement. I'd rather choose that last one. We are proposing a reduction in VAT and excise duty, because I think that in times of crisis, you should not let the government earn money from the people on this issue. We are now in a purchasing power crisis, I think, instead of a climate crisis. And then it comes: indeed, the shirt is nearer than the skirt. We will now have to set priorities. I find it a very perverse idea to take money away from others, big companies, wealthy entrepreneurs, it doesn't matter, instead of getting it away from where it is: with the government's own spending pattern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then we will listen to Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. It was a small message with a lot of impact on society: an older man of 80 who stole cheese, bread and ham at the supermarket. He had stolen €17.75 together, not only for himself, but also for a few other residents. He said I don't make ends meet with the AOW. I have to think back to the time when we didn't have it that wide. I did not think this should happen in the Netherlands. It'll be your grandfather or your father who has to steal out because he doesn't have enough money to buy food from. Is that a coincidence that someone with an AOW doesn't make ends meet? Is it the fault of the war in Ukraine? Or could it also be the policy of the Rutte Cabinets? To the Netherlands that helped build the VVD? I was in Amsterdam the other day. I think that's a bit strange since I found out a parking lot there deserves more than my 18-year-old son. I spoke to azzp'er against will and thanks, because he didn't want to be. He delivers food, sometimes at risk for his own life. Since recently, he has been reporting to the opportunity bank on a weekly basis. That is a food bank for people who are just not qualified to go to the food bank. He gets potatoes, some apples, cauliflower and toilet paper. He's embarrassed to death, but there's no other way. Is the gentleman unlucky? Is that Putin's fault? Or could that also be an addition to Rutte and Kaag's policies? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the phenomenon of "rental nomads." I think very few of you know that understanding. Those are people who can't afford a place to live because of a divorce or loss of work. They temporarily sleep with family on the couch, sometimes with friends and in summer in an unheated mobile home. Those Dutch guys just have bad luck? Is that because of geopolitical tensions around the world? Or could it be that we've sold out the social housing in the last ten years? And could it be that there has been consciously directed at fewer homes and that this has created the scarcity? Too expensive messages, too high petrol costs, too much nitrogen, too few homes and a loosely flexible labour market. That's not bad luck. That's not a coincidence. That is a sum of the choices Rutte has made over the past ten years. In every crisis or disaster, Rutte shows the same pattern. As a driver of a car he causes an accident, then gets out and says: what a terrible thing! Did you guys get the license plate? Mr. Chairman. He's the longest-serving driver in this country. He is therefore also responsible for the state of this country. A crisis exposes the differences. And bad leaders often use it as an excuse not to keep promises. That's what we see in the spring note. The large purchasing power shortage caused by high inflation leads to uncertainty, stress, poverty and despair. People are watching prices rise everywhere. Everywhere they see their purchasing power fall. Mr. Chairman. Retrospectively, society pays the price for a year of standstill during formation. Even before the ink of the coalition agreement was dry, the plans were obsolete. Since then Rutte and Kaag have been chasing the facts and doing relay politics. 15 January was about income inequality, after which the stick was handed over to 18 March. What about the purchasing power, we asked. Then the stick went to today. I'll see to it that we pass the stick to September 19th. Mr. Chairman. What are the promises of the cabinet and the coalition worth? What has come of the promise of the leader of the largest party here in this Chamber? He said: I expect a balanced and positive income development and it must be settled in the spring note today. That was the promise. That's what the Dutch are looking at. A positive income trend does not mean a five percentage point decrease in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u42	I say to Mr Azarkan that I made statements on this in the debate on the declaration of government at the end of January. I talked about a balanced purchasing power picture. A month later, the war broke out in Ukraine and there was no balance in the world at all. I think it would be appropriate to place the ruling of that time in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u43	I learned early that 10% is what happens and that you decide the remaining 90% yourself. 90% of the impact is what you've done yourself, how you stand, how society stands. It's choices that have been made. Those choices are made every day. I have heard a number of speakers say: we saw last November that energy prices were very high. Energy prices today are at a lower level than they were then. I can tell you that I myself, and with me many others, had an energy society in September, Welcome Energy. It went bankrupt and my bill went up by factor 3. That happened up to six, seven times. It's about whether you're ready as a country to cope with such a crisis. I think it's about leadership if you make the right choices. Mr. Chairman. What does it do with the credibility of politics if agreements are not respected? If it comes to DENK, we have a very effective way of combating inflation: lowering the VAT rate. This went from 19% to 21% in mid-2012. It can just go down. We can also continue to reduce energy tariffs by 2022 to 2023. The same applies to reductions in excise duties, car fuel and the reduction in the VAT rate for electricity and gas. Finally, Mr President. Another way is to raise wages. Is the government prepared to call on employers to agree on higher collective bargaining wages and, if necessary, to use the law on wage formation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Against the backdrop of a gruesome war on our continent, rising energy prices and priceless messages, more and more people are worried about making it to the end of the month. According to the darkest scenario of the CPB stress test, this could be 1.2 million households. At the same time, the group of people screaming through the megaphone is growing that we need a drastic change in order to stay within 1.5 degrees of warming and not set off at the end of a viable world for generations after us. It's up to the government to bridge those two scenarios, right now. But we see a cabinet that has spent a lot of money without effectiveness and efficiency. The higher income groups don't need it. Investico calculated that 20% of the measures land right there, while it is too little for the low income groups. That is why I ask the Minister what possibilities she sees to compensate the lower income groups through an inflation payment in the form of a doubling of the income-dependent care allowance. In this way, we can compensate 85% of the lower income groups in a targeted way and thus do justice to the problem outlined in the CPB stress test. I am considering an amendment on this point. Mr. Chairman. We have to compensate. That money's got to come from somewhere. But compensate for the people who need it. Let it not be at the expense of investments that make our country and our continent future-proof. It is therefore difficult to digest the fact that, with only 50% left to remain within 1.5 degrees of warming, billions are being taken out of the climate and nitrogen funds. For unfocused compensation, and against a background where extra money is pumped into KLM and into storage for liquid gas. Why were these funds set up? To what end? How does that relate to this withdrawal? Mr. Chairman. Volt is concerned about developments in Europe. The ECB is now conducting crisis consultations on the interest rate increases. They could lead to EU Member States doing less in the area of sustainable investment, especially now that, according to DNB, we are also heading for a recession. Mr. Chairman. In this context, how does the government view the green rule as part of the Stability and Growth Pact? There is a clear distinction in public debt between conservative expenditure on the one hand and expenditure that leads our continent to a clean, green future on the other. What is the government doing at European level until then, and against the background of rising interest rates, to maintain future-oriented investment on our continent? Mr. Chairman. Then compensation. Which shoulders can help? It's been a lot today. While the inequality between groups of people has grown, we see huge excess profits in companies due to the pandemic and the current energy crisis. From left to right, political parties in Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom have therefore taken action to tax exorbitant profits fairly. In the Netherlands, we lack the legal basis to be able to apply such a legal charge. In the absence of a European opportunity to tax excessive excess profits, I would like to hear the Minister's views on such a legal basis. Today, with the Christian Union, we will table a motion to create a basis for this in the Tax Plan 2023, precisely so that we are well equipped in future crises and have these opportunities. In addition, Volt asked questions to the cabinet six weeks ago to find out whether and how a possible windfall tax would be possible. We haven't gotten a response to that yet. Those questions haven't been answered yet. I wonder if the Minister could answer those questions now. An earlier motion by Mr Van Raan and myself on a solidarity levy did not make it. However, in view of the discussions that are taking place today, I have good hope that something is possible. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my final point. Politics is achieving results on many major issues but not the desired ones. Think of a future-proof labour market and healthcare system. Let us also use the wealth of ideas in our society, with civil advice, to force effective and cost-effective breakthroughs. According to Scottish example, Volt would like to start a first national pilot as soon as possible. It would be up to EUR 2 million with good fees for participants and a good public campaign. I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this and what opportunities she sees for making money available for it. Mr President, I will conclude. In order to move forward together, we must make use of the wealth of ideas of society. Let us take action to take the vulnerable with us and lay the foundations for fair redistribution in future crises. Just in times of crisis and uncertainty, the degree of solidarity and justice within a society is a sign of great change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The introduction to the Spring Note states: "The cabinet is working on a sustainable, prosperous country for present and future generations, in which all residents can participate as they wish." That's the only good starting point. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that, precisely in order to enable everyone to participate, demographic developments are of great importance for policy development and policy implementation. The number of senior citizens is growing rapidly and the impact of ageing on, for example, pensions, care and housing is high. That is why it should be a spearhead for the coalition. Take the crisis on the housing market. We saw it coming years ago. Unfortunately, there was no timely anticipation. As a result: a hidden housing market and a shortage of small-scale clustered housing, homes for small households and nursing homes. A positive point is that this cabinet sees the need to invest in older people's housing, but the intention to use it is financially marginal. Older people's housing is last included in the housing plans. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to draw up the housing plans for older people and to build more suitable and affordable housing for older people within the budgetary framework, so that the flow of funds for start-ups and families can start. Another subject that has kept the moods very busy, and which still concerns the moods, and rightly so, is the purchasing power of the elderly. More and more elderly people are struggling to keep their financial heads above water. In addition, it also does something to people to be the forgotten group over and over again in terms of purchasing power. I am pleased that the cabinet has listened to the loud call to remove the one-off decoupling of the AOW and the legal minimum wage. But I find the recovery of 1.1 billion via the Income Support AOW unacceptable and unsellable. Of course, it would also have been nicer if we could have had the support of the AOWs who needed it focused on increasing the legal minimum wage. I understood that this could not be because of implementation problems. But now the cabinet wants the cost of this on the elderly who need it the most. We have talked about this before, but I wonder whether this is really necessary, also given the excess mortality and the government's remark that there are fewer single AOWs than expected. This brings about a huge saving of about 150 million a year in the years to come. Can't the cabinet see again where we can get the remaining 90 million, so we can maintain the IOAW? Mr. Chairman. A large part of the national expenditure goes through the Municipal Fund. The municipalities are responsible for important issues such as the implementation of the Participation Act, the Wmo and the Youth Act. The implementation of the Youth Act is particularly worrying. I very much agree with the UNG that municipalities should also be given appropriate resources in their responsibilities. However, this is not just about money; it is also about how things are realized. Is it not even time for the money given to municipalities under the Youth Act to set clear frameworks and objectives to be achieved and to be justified? Of course, the autonomy of implementation can remain with the municipalities. But if we want to improve care for our most vulnerable children in a bold way, then national direction seems really necessary. Mr. Chairman. Even with the current shortage on the labour market, it appears that it is difficult for people over the age of 45 to find a new job. On Sunday, the NOS announced that more than 50,000 elderly people aged 45-plus would not be able to find a job. It is now time to stop discrimination against older people in the labour market. I know that the Minister for Social Affairs has promised a letter on this, but I would like to know whether there is a budget available for new policies on this subject, because I have not been able to find out. Finally. I have already indicated that it is raging on all sides in terms of ICT in the government. It's been doing that for years. You can also see this in the Grip on ICT report of the Elias Commission of 2014. Nothing has changed since then. Each time it appears that ICT is the bottleneck in the introduction and implementation of legislation. The Court of Auditors is also making a big deal of it this time. This requires a department-wide approach. Otherwise, this will continue to be a problem for us in the years to come, and citizens will continue to experience it. I would like to hear from the cabinet what the government is going to do and what vision the government has on this matter. After all, there's a huge drain of money here. Mr. Chairman. Locking up. I am pleased that the cabinet's starting point is that everyone should be able to continue to participate fully, but I sincerely hope that the cabinet will move from the second to the fifth gear as far as our older people are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u48	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u49	Thank you. Mr President, citizens of the Netherlands and people in the gallery. The coalition agreement had 50 pages, 50 pages D66 plans. Fifty Shades of Kaag. That's how I summarized the coalition agreement earlier. Last weekend, many voters of the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union underlined my analysis once again, rejecting massively the mad nitrogen policy. A nitrogen policy with a very high D66 content. With the nitrogen plans, this cabinet is actually on a collision course towards a cabinet crisis. At least that's how I see it. Maybe I'm wrong. I would actually like to know from the Prime Minister how he sees the future of the cabinet, knowing that millions of voters, including a very large part of the supporters of the coalition parties, are fatally opposed to the pans in this form. How stable is this cabinet, anyway? What does that mean for the governability of this country? Can the Prime Minister explain to us as a Chamber and as a country how he's going to keep the frogs in the wheelbarrow? Because I've, frankly, been sensing a thin line between love and hatred in the coalition for some time now. Is that true? Mr. Chairman. Face each other, look forward to the future. As far as looking after each other is concerned, parents, ex-partners and children from the supplement scandal are still not or not fully compensated. Kids still haven't returned to their parents. Victims of the earthquake damage in Groningen are not given any certainty about their compensation. Many inhabitants of the South Netherlands are still waiting for compensation for the flood disaster. The next disaster is already happening. The number of households with payment problems increases by the day due to expensive petrol, high energy costs and high food costs. According to the Cultural Planning Bureau, 500,000 households already struggled to make ends meet. In the darkest scenario, another 500,000 will be added. We're talking about households. You can just multiply this number by three. So we're talking about 3 million people who don't think in the morning "what to eat today" but "we have enough to eat today." Or they have to choose between a hot shower and a loaf of bread. It will also have great consequences for the 85% of the Dutch who can still afford it all. Because if someone can't afford anything anywhere else, someone else is short of money: the government, the shopkeeper, you name it. The new poverty will soon be felt in the heart of our society. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the D.O., the public transport. There is a risk of further erosion of the Ov. The people of the DV, who have also been here today, are fighting for the preservation of their jobs and for the accessibility of everyone in the Netherlands. In the countryside and in the city there will be much less buses, trains and trams with the current plans. Transporters and trade unions are asking to reserve EUR 500 million as a safety net in case of need in 2023. Is the Cabinet prepared to reserve this amount? Accessibility and affordability are also at issue in Zeeland. The Westerschelde tunnel must finally become toll-free, as has already been decided by the Chamber. Together with my dear colleagues, Alkaya of the SP and Stoffer of the SGP, I am tabling an amendment with cover to make this possible by 2025. That was the Minister's job: cover. I trust that this amendment will be widely supported and that the flag will soon be available in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen in particular. Mr. Chairman. The bulk of the money the cabinet spent on energy compensation, hundreds of millions, went to the richest households. That's how the cabinet increases inequality. The AOW is increased, but this is paid by removing the supplement for people with an incomplete AOW and by reversing the old discount. Here, too, the lowest incomes are again the victims. All this calls for targeted actions, not for money to be scattered, but for poverty to be combated wherever it is needed. If a farmer were to deal with fertilizer like the cabinet with money, the farmer would go bankrupt within a year. Farmers at least give the right nutrition, exactly in the right place and to the plants that need it. Mr. Chairman. Now, let's get this straight. The government, too, has to go down the drain and cut its own costs. What's to get here? Less external agencies bet. BBB wants to speed up all the surcharges and introduce a tax-free amount for income, for example up to €20,000. The amount in the nitrogen fund can be significantly reduced, since innovation is nine times cheaper than buying out according to Wageningen University. The amount released from the nitrogen fund can be invested in youth care, education, purchasing power and care, with special attention to the ggz. The amount in the climate fund can also be significantly reduced. The money we are going to spend on this can be spent on climate adaptation, so increasing dikes instead of "Maastricht aan Zee" screaming. Furthermore, introducing a direct excise duty on kerosene, charging additional costs for short flights up to 400 kilometres and making travel by train more attractive. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Maybe it all sounds a little simple. I do not have high education, like many in the government, but I think it is better to have common sense without training than to have training without common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Sylvana Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you. Under the persistent neoliberal rule of the Rutte Cabinets, the poverty in our Kingdom is growing terrifyingly every day. Due to high inflation, the war, the energy crisis, low wages, flexible contracts, the shortage of affordable housing, the consequences of covid, long covid, the inhuman situations in shelters such as Ter Apel, all at the same time. But there is much more at stake, because the climate crisis we are discussing so often also has disastrous consequences for Bonaire, Aruba, Curaçao, Saint Martin, Statia or Saba. Meanwhile, the chances of reducing the damage are shrinking by the day. We are also in the midst of a devastating pandemic, with all the consequences. Mr. Chairman. In my spare time I like to listen to the music of Bob Marley. I see him as a prophet, a wise man. A sentence from his music keeps coming in to me today, listening and watching the debate: "In the abundance of water a fool is thirsty." In times of abundance, only the silly lack. At the same time, where we can free up billions of dollars in order to increase the defence budget, we accept that more and more people are going into poverty. The security of existence of millions of people is under more pressure than ever before. So that's a choice, a political choice. Mr. Chairman. This is the time to make other fundamental choices, but I regret to say that this is not going to happen again. For instead of, for example, bet on a decent minimum wage, it is only an alms that have already been swallowed up by the inflation wave before the increase can go in at all. More than ever, we need a massive redistribution of wealth, closing the unprecedented inhuman divide between rich and poor. Yet we still do not see a fair tax on multinationals such as Shell. They run away laughing again, with big profits over the backs of people pumping their savings bills to get to work at all. And then we talk, and even take motions, about reducing excise duties, which we are actually fooling ourselves with. So no, Mr President, the choices the cabinet is making now are not in favour of the people who feel all these national crises every day. They are in favour, for example, of the arms industry, because this cabinet looked at the thousands of refugees in our country who do not get a bed, bath or bread, and came up with a solution: more imperialism, more billions to Defense. This cabinet considered the fact that more and more Dutch citizens on both sides of the ocean cannot make ends meet at the end of the month and thought: let's increase the priceless rents further! This cabinet looked at the towering study debts of young people who are already being billed for, among other things, the climate and housing crisis, and invented not the cancellation of debts, but the introduction of an interest rate so that young people with even more financial lag can start their lives. The problems that have been sown in neoliberal capitalism are now being harvested and we are trying to run from them, but that is simply no longer possible. The British professor Tim Jackson writes in his latest book about life after capitalism. The idea that growth is needed because there is no alternative, he says, can be undone. It's gonna take courage. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, the cabinet could show courage by using every budget on it, on degrowth, on the outgrow. That means as much as limiting that utopian, infinite economic growth. For that growth, that is the growth that destroys our earth, our climate, all the animals around us and actually ourselves. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the pandemic, we saw that it could be otherwise, that we can prioritise collective prosperity and health in the broadest sense, that there is solidarity among ourselves and that it strengthens our society, that reducing commuting can lead to a cleaner environment, that the possibility of working at home makes our workplace more inclusive, that investing in education also means creating healthy learning conditions, including healthy buildings, that both teachers and students are a lifeline of our society and that we as a society are most dependent on our healthcare workers, our postal workers and our supermarket workers, who are far from getting the fair pay they deserve. I keep hoping. I continue to hope with every budget that we will see a vision of this cabinet. A vision in which all the people who keep our society running and meaningful are placed above the profits of the companies where they work and which they lead to profits. A vision in which work is more than a survival strategy that pays unfairly. A vision in which we do not see sustainability and solidarity separately. I would also like to say a lot about the AOW and the compensation for energy costs, but time is running out, so I am expressing a final hope. I hope for a vision in which politics no longer opts for poverty or puts the bill forward to our young people. A vision that focuses on solidarity, care and equality. In short, a vision that shows that Prime Minister Rutte, against all expectations, is really capable of leadership now that it really matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. The Dutchman doesn't make ends meet and the cabinet pours 60 billion euros into a nitrogen and climate fund, the dowry of the political marriage between Rutte and Kaag. A global food crisis is threatening and the cabinet is euthanasiaing our farmers on the basis of a nitrogen problem created by bureaucrats. Can the Prime Minister explain why the benefits of expelling our farmers outweigh the disadvantages? The energy bill is priceless and the cabinet refuses to keep the Groningen gas field open, while every engineer knows that a reserve of 450 billion cubic metres can be produced safely. Can the Prime Minister explain why he's leaving that 1,000 billion euros in the ground? There is a deficit of 1 million houses, because there are 100,000 migrants a year and no houses are built by all kinds of government measures, such as nitrogen, pfas, CO, mandatory heat pumps and the nonsense of removing houses from the gas. Can the Prime Minister explain how he is going to rebalance supply and demand in the housing market? Mr. Chairman. According to the CPB, high inflation has made life priceless for 1.2 million Dutch people. The cabinet keeps its finger on the wrist, but the urgency is completely lacking. The cabinet is the string orchestra on the Titanic and the common Dutchman drowns. That is why BVNL wants a strong recovery in purchasing power. Work has to pay again. How will Minister Kaag fight the poverty trap? How are we going to get the 1.2 million people who aren't working right now to work? What does the Minister think of an increase in the employment discount for workers, as recommended by the ESC? Mr. Chairman. BVNL also wants VAT on energy to be reduced to 5%. A cover can be found in the aforementioned dowry of 60 billion. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands is heading towards a recession and enterprising The Netherlands is going into a hurricane. Entrepreneurs can "re-Rut" and business is "be-Garden." BVNL asks the cabinet to reach a purchasing power agreement with employers, trade unions and pension funds based on higher wages, lower employers' labour costs, lower labour costs and improved purchasing power for pensioners. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to introduce this cost-neutrally for employers. Exceptional times call for exceptional interventions. It is time for a new historic agreement, an agreement in the interest of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a severe recession and a new monetary crisis approaching, we will look back on this year with surprise and amazement in a few years' time. Rutte threw overboard a decent budgetary policy, which he had conducted for ten years. Dozens of billions of extra money were spent on education, army, CO funds and nitrogen funds. But we haven't given enough attention to how they're spent. Purchasing power is falling incredibly fast. We're in the biggest existential security crisis since 1945. Go to a food bank. Go to a local neighborhood. Go to your elementary school. Ask around. You see it. This is the same room that missed 100,000 families who had problems with the IRS. Sorry, I mean 50,000 families. Now we are in danger of missing 1.2 million people, 1.2 million households, who, if they say everything that is flexible, no longer go to the cinema, no longer go out to dinner, no longer go to a terrace, no longer go on holiday, no longer go out for a day, still fail to pay their food and energy bills every month. Who gets the money? We have earmarked 800 million for these families. The three owners of the coal plants will receive 1.6 billion this year, as I said earlier. The three of them get twice as many as the million poorest households in the Netherlands. How did we get here? Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions for the cabinet. Firstly, I would like to know why we are giving that money to the owners of coal power stations. Couldn't that be 1 billion or 1.5 billion less, so that the money is spent in a sensible way? You can raise funds of tens of billions, but if you're going to spend it this way, never do it. Two: I want an urgent plan for the buyers and speculators, so that they do not buy up the rights to CO and nitrogen and we are going to buy out the cabinet's goals for the top prize. The longer you wait, the more you're gonna pay. I want to see if this €800 scheme can be extended. Do you have to do that through the care allowance? I'm fine with it. Maybe it is good to create a second group that gets €400, so the people who are between 120% and 150% of the social minimum, and to finance that by paying less for the owners of coal plants. Finally, Mr President. In October, I filed a motion. What's the social minimum? That's not an abstract question, because we're not recording it. What's the minimum people need to make ends meet? That would be investigated. That investigation hasn't even started yet. And since the government doesn't know that, we have policies that make kids go to school without breakfast. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-6.u57	I shall suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. Then we shall begin the two-minute debate on the Foreign Affairs Council. Then we will continue with this debate. That'll be around 5:05 to 5:10. That gives the cabinet 45 minutes to prepare.
