ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the situation in Ukraine. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, as well as the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. I would like to ask Members four questions or agree on comments to each other and six to the rulers. An interruption is a short question or remark, without a whole introduction. Those are my household announcements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u2	I agree with that, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a point of order. We received the letter and the answers to the questions asked around 2.15 p.m. That was about three hours ago. The rule is, however, that we receive this more widely in advance, so that we can better prepare ourselves for it. That does not mean that the situation can change at a la minute, but it is useful for the preparation. I would have liked to have said to the new rulers that it will have to be done sooner in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I think the message was delivered immediately. Let's get started. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. The situation in Ukraine is tense and worrying. Although we all want a peaceful diplomatic solution, that is certainly not a certainty. The Netherlands must therefore prepare for various scenarios and count its nodes. For BVNL it is quite clear that under no circumstances should lives of Dutch soldiers be put at risk. Ukraine is not a NATO member, and the list of fallen Dutch soldiers, as exhibited in the State Passage, is exhausting in our view and should not be expanded by this crisis. Delivering defensive weapons to make Ukraine more resilient in a possible Russian invasion is a very different matter for BVNL. After all, whoever lacks the sword must hope for the shield of others. Economic sanctions at EU level are a two-edged sword: Russia is not a dwarf state that can be applied unpunishedly, partly in view of the estimated foreign exchange reserves of 400 to 600 billion dollars, Nord Stream 2 and gas supplies. Those are all not to be underestimated reprisals. Also excluding Russia from payments SWIFT can be a boomerang. Here's what else. The Dutch people voted away intensive economic and military cooperation with Ukraine in the 2015 referendum on the Association Treaty. We have to stick to that. As already mentioned, BVNL does not want Dutch deaths as a result of a conflict in Ukraine. That's what BVNL stands for. Every politician in this Chamber will have to take personal account of himself. Would the long-term border dispute between Ukraine and Russia be worth the life of my son or daughter if he is in the army and comes home in a bodybag? Will the Secretary of Defense undertake that under no circumstances will she send Dutch soldiers to Ukraine? Another aspect is European geopolitical interests. These aren't here. Europe is not a federal state. We are talking about sovereign states, and that geopolitical integration will never happen in relation to BVNL. Nor is this conflict an argument for forming a European army. BVNL rejects this at all times. Minister Hoekstra said in an interview with Beau that he almost came to the conclusion with shame that Europe is hardly able to defend the continent. I will tell the Minister a little secret: that was already known in 1949. That's why NATO was founded, a wonderful club. It is regrettable that many members, including the Netherlands, do not wish to pay the agreed fee of 2% of GNP. Finally. Of course, BVNL assumes that the cabinet of expensive lessons with regard to the evacuations of Dutch people in Afghanistan has learned. Hopefully this will now lead to a better crisis policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Dutch government has been in Ukraine. The only question I would like to ask in advance is how the Dutch government is going to visit the place of taking down the MH17 once. The Ukraine crisis exposes to the Netherlands some of the problems we also know from the corona crisis: lack of strategic vision, slow decision-making in Kiev we didn't know what we could offer yet. Defense has been neglected for years. The risk is obvious that we are now going to talk about specific items that we should be delivering, but I want a more fundamental debate. The first question is: what is the government's assessment and analysis of the situation at the moment? Is there the acute threat of a raid or is Russia looking for a retreat without loss of face? In the context of pressure and dialogue, I also ask the government the following question. Has Putin overplayed his hand and managed to keep the West operating as a unit? And can we de-escalate so that Putin can get away nicely without making any concessions to our principles? Question two. What are the specific goals that the government wants to achieve? As far as I am concerned, this is preventing the conflict... But that can only be done with a firm, credible and joint attitude. That's when you force de-escalation. That requires you to organize unity in the West. I am curious to see what happens to keep countries such as Croatia, Hungary and Germany on board. Then it is necessary to strengthen the deterrent towards Moscow. For this, credible and spicy economic sanctions must be in place that affect Russian earning power and the Russian elite. Then we also need a clear decision on who supplies defensive weapons to Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. The third question. Can the government share with the Chamber what Ukraine has actually asked for? And are we willing to deliver that? And what does that determine? Is that a question of principle? Are there no heavier means than helmets, shrapnels or cyber assistance provided to a non-NATO Member State? How is this different from, for example, the patriots we delivered to Israel in 1991? Or is it necessary? After all, we do not have sufficient supplies. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr President, thank you. The Cold War has been back from being gone. At the eastern border of Ukraine we see mobilization from Russia. From the West, Ukraine itself is getting more and more military support. The United States, as well as the United Kingdom and many other countries, provide everything: weapons, advisors, trainings. More and more, we are witnessing an unadulterated arms race, which mainly benefits arms producers. The question is, what is wisdom? We have nothing to do with the mobilisation of troops on the border with Ukraine. On the other hand, an unnecessary arms race must be avoided. A solution must be found which is workable for all parties, which guarantees and rejects the sovereignty of states, which ensures collective security, which recognizes Ukraine's concerns, but which is equally aware of Russian concerns regarding NATO enlargement. They didn't start with Putin. Oral promises about not expanding NATO turned out to be a wash. Ignoring the history books in this respect is downright dangerous. We are in favour of disarming and de-escalation in line with previous agreements made in Helsinki and Paris. The OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, can play a central role in this process. Does the government share that opinion? And can you tell us exactly how the OSCE talks are going? What progress has been made? Can you respond to the leaked American response to Russian demands? It was in the NRC, among other things. In that we actually see some light in terms of disarmament and control of each other's military bases. Can you confirm this? And are you willing to promote this approach? Ukraine wants weapons, but for the time being the government is silent about a concrete delivery. Can the government tell us what the latest state of affairs is? Is the Netherlands going to respond to this request or not? In December, the government considered that arms supplies to Ukraine did not contribute to a peaceful resolution of the conflict. That was wise, but the government has now turned. Now you're sympathetic to an arms deal. As far as the SP is concerned, arms supplies to Ukraine are oil on the fire. Germany says the same thing. It would be good to hang out. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, European rules on arms exports prohibit the supply of arms to conflict zones. Do you agree that supplying weapons is unwise, moreover, against the rules? The Dutch government should take the lead in finding a diplomatic way out. That is my appeal to the government: abandon armament, work on de-escalation of the conflict and look at previous agreements and previous treaties. We have prepared a petition for this, which has just been posted on our website. No war in Europe! That's what needs to be prevented. I also asked for a meeting with the Lower House and people of the OVSG this afternoon to discuss a lasting peace in Europe. 'Cause if we don't talk anymore, Chairman, we're gonna shoot! That's why a less hysterical policy would help. Let's throw oil on waves instead of on fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr. Brekelmans of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u10	I have a question for Mr Van Dijk. We see that Russia has built up huge numbers of troops over the last few months and is supplying them. That was before any weapon went from the West to Ukraine. It's Russia that started arming. And then Mr Van Dijk says: "We must not oppose that. If we just sit back and wait, then Russia will de-escalate itself." If you see who has taken the first steps over the past few months, shown themselves aggressively and armed himself, how can he have the confidence that Russia will de-escalate if we now sit back?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u11	I never said we shouldn't do anything. In fact, thanks to Mr Brekelmans, the House of Representatives has also said that if Russia is raiding Ukraine, it is unacceptable and there must be firm sanctions. That's what the government went along with, and that was good. But until December, like the SP, the government felt that supplying weapons is unwise and that we need to work towards a political solution. Very good! The government has been turned into that and is now going to join the gun clatter and throw it into the oil on the fire. That is the direction Mr Brekelmans wants to take. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u12	I also have a question for the SP Group. Russia has indeed started this whole construction. Yesterday we had a conversation with NATO, and then it becomes clear how extraordinary it is what they are doing at the moment, especially when you see that troops are going to Belarus and what that brings about for our friends in the Baltic states. We went to work there together and the fear is increasing there. Then my question is whether doing nothing is an option. Is that really what the SP wants? I don't understand that very well. Shouldn't you just stand next to your friends and show them that you're thinking along with them and that it's affecting us, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u13	That's kind of the same question. I just said that sanctions were a sensible starting point for this cabinet and for Europe. They're working on that, too. They're setting it up. You bet Russia is watching and that can also have a lot of impact. I think you should walk that way. Of course, it is not the case that the tensions between Russia and Europe have been going on for a short time now, is it? They have been playing since the end of the Cold War, when statements were made by Western allies, namely that NATO would not expand to the east. Those appointments weren't made. NATO has indeed moved to the east, and that is also a point that you must take into account in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u14	The CDA also wants a good and robust sanction package to be put in place, because that seems to us to be the best thing. However, at the time of an exceptional build-up of troops at that border, the SP still believes that only that sanction package is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u15	I find an exceptional troop-building of the Russians on the border with Ukraine worrying. Let's get that straight. The question is what is a sensible response to that. Do you have to go in an arms race? Should you send military and weapons to Ukraine? That is what the United States and the United Kingdom are doing now. Or should you choose diplomacy and dialogue? That's my preference. If necessary, you must choose sanctions, but you must not compete in an arms race.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u16	Mr Kuzu van DENK and then Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u17	I don't think anyone in Europe wants war. That is where Mr Van Dijk of the SP finds my group on his side. Of course, a diplomatic solution is a good way to save our lives. My group is of course in favour of this, but of course we have also learned from Putin's actions in recent years. I am thinking of the annexation of Crimea in 2014. At that time, sanctions were imposed. My question to the SP is: what has the SP learned from 2014? Putin wasn't just about diplomacy at the time, but also just about muscle display. What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u18	What Putin did then is unacceptable. At the same time, the situation is new and different, and so you must now rethink what wisdom is in this situation. So far, Russia has not made a concrete raid in Ukraine. If that does happen, you will first have to impose sanctions. They're working on it. An arms race could increase the chances of a military conflict, and I would be surprised if DENK followed that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u19	Well, then you'll be amazed at my contribution later, but I'm speaker number 15 on the list; that's gonna take a while. As far as the eastern part of Ukraine is concerned, of course you have to consider each situation, but we also know what the actual situation is at the moment in the Donbas region. In fact, Russia has a Russian sphere of influence and full control in that area. Should we wait for a possible military raid before we start imposing sanctions? Doesn't the SP realize it's too late by then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u20	What is happening in the Donbas region is certainly not okay. Negotiations were then launched on this subject, which led to the so-called Minsk agreements. I very much agree with you if you mean building on that and that the presence of a military presence abroad in Ukraine must be stopped. But keep going on that path instead of sticking to the gun clatter, which I hear way too much on the side of NATO and the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u21	I believe that the SP also knows that one of Russia's strategies is whether NATO can still be united and make one more fist. You can see that a number of countries have already moved to place equipment or persons in Ukraine or in the EU countries bordering on it. I wonder whether you agree that unanimity is important and that non-tonning could also be a victory for Russia in this area. Doesn't the SP believe that these statements can actually bring Russia an advantage here, without it being in arms? After all, there is a separation between the United States and England, but also the Netherlands, for example, according to your position, which says that we must take a different path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u23	I very much agree that you must support unity. Very. That is why I made a plea for the OSCE. That's the platform, that's the stage on which we need to talk. That is where European countries talk to each other about peace, democracy and security. That's where you have to get consensus. I agree that European countries should be as united as possible on a position in this regard. That is why I asked for the Germans' position to be followed, which also says: you must not deliver weapons to Ukraine, because that is oil on the fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u24	The position of the SP is known to me. But you also know that the United Kingdom has recently ceased to be part of the EU and that America is not part of it either. The NATO alliance did. It is from NATO and not from the EU that the military alliance knows obligations to each other at the time of escalation. You are asking us to follow Germany in that. That could be a position. But do you not think that the NATO alliance should show unanimity with Russia, or that it should lead in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u25	No, of course not, because in the end you just have to see what the sensible point of view is. I hope that the Christian Union will continue to think for itself. I now note that there are different views in NATO. Germany, for example, says no weapons to Ukraine. The United States says weapons. Well, then you can see as the Netherlands what alliance you're closing in on. There are more NATO allies. Let me remind you of Hungary. Well, that's not what it says. I would say, above all, choose the position that is most sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then we go to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about Ukraine in recent weeks, but I wonder if we have had the fundamental debate. We talked about whether the Netherlands should now supply arms to Ukraine. Of course solidarity is good, but you may wonder if a Dutch contribution will make the difference on the spot. We talked about whether the travel advice should be changed. I think it is a good thing that we as Dutch people try to be careful and manage, but let us also be careful with micromanagement from the Chamber regarding Dutch and diplomats abroad. I believe that the debate should be about how to change Russia's mind and how to get Putin to talk about our demands. For let us be quite honest: at the moment Putin is just ahead of 1-0 militaryly and politically. He stands before the military with the more than 100,000 soldiers on the north, east and south borders of Ukraine. We've all seen the footage of trains full of military equipment, with tanks. We have read that large stocks of blood have also been brought to the frontline. Politically, Putin has us wherever he wants us to be. It's about his demands. It's about what Ukraine can't do. It must not become a member of NATO. It can't decide for itself what the future looks like. Of course, NATO can't do anything either. NATO must, above all, do nothing and move on to the West. So Putin is actually an angry neighbor throwing garbage in your garden, taking a few rooms off your house, killing your roommate, and then saying to you, "What concessions are you willing to make to me?" Mr. Chairman. It should be about our demands: no more deployment of chemical weapons from Russia on the territory of Europe, no more killings in European capitals and no more Russian occupying forces on the border with Ukraine, Georgia or Moldova. Then we can talk about mutual disarmament and confidence-building measures. Putin wants a Yalta 2.0. He wants to go back to the realms of influence. We want a Helsinki 2.0. We want to reaffirm human rights and sovereignty. I ask this cabinet whether it shares that analysis and whether this is our commitment. I believe that much of the letter was still based on Putin's demands and frame rather than on our own demands. Mr. Chairman. Then the key question: how do we reverse this dynamic? First of all, we do this by making the price so high for Putin that the military invasion is not done. It has already been said by previous speakers: European sanctions; they make guesses of what is on the table. That's good. At the same time, there have been sanctions against Russia for years. I ask the cabinet why we believe that sanctions will have effects this time. Secondly, military deterrents through NATO and the East. That's what's happening. The Netherlands also supplies. I ask the Minister of Defence what the steps that have just been taken, but also what possible follow-up steps might be. Thirdly, help to make Ukraine as resilient as possible. If you read the cabinet letter, you can see that we are doing a lot of work on that point. I am curious to see what the cabinet might come up with in the context of arms supplies. Mr. Chairman. But we don't do the most important thing, and that's after Putin's corruption money and the oligarchal clique that supports him. In recent weeks, Putin was completely invisible in the media, until someone in London said: let's take a closer look at the real estate and the black money of those oligarchs here in London. Whoever said that was not the least; he was an important politician. Then it suddenly didn't take Putin so long before he got angry, really furious, on TV. The British slogan was hit Putin through banks, not tanks. So there's his weakness. There's his Achilles heel. We need to press on that. A recent analysis showed that Russian citizens have as much financial assets abroad as they do in Russia. Send that in for a minute. That's why I have the following questions. The European Union has the Magnitsky Act. It helps us to freeze the money of human rights criminals and to ban them from the European Union. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to argue at the next IAB that corruption should be included in that law and that Putin and his cabal should be on that list so that they can be punished. That is what the debate should be about. Then we hit them where it hurts: in their wallet. And then maybe we'll get Putin to table our demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. There is an interruption by Mrs Ellemeet from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u29	I think Mr Sjoerdsma made a very important point, namely: where do we get Putin? That's right: when it comes to his boyfriends' money. Now we also know that part of the crème de la crème of the Russian business is based in the Netherlands through all kinds of letterbox companies. Think of Yandex, Gazprom, Rosneft, for example. I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma whether he agrees with GroenLinks that we should also look very specifically at this: how can we also meet Putin's friends by tackling these letterbox companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u30	Yeah, absolutely. Addressing the letterbox companies is also something that the previous cabinet has already done an incredible amount of work on. I know this cabinet wants to do the same. I would almost say: let us hope that the Foreign Minister will also use the expertise he has built up in his previous position as Minister of Finance. Because, of course, it is right: it is not only in London where real estate is bought; it is not only in London where black money is stored. We all remember the revelations of, I think, the newspaper Trouw if not, excuses about the ties between Russian banks via the Baltic states eventually here in Amsterdam. I hardly dare to say it with Mr Baudet in the Chamber, but a former member of the Forum for Democracy played a very important role there. So yes, we need to look very closely at that and we need to do everything we can to ensure that we are not a free haven for that kind of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u31	Mr Sjoerdsma is wearing huge pants. He's actually saying that we need to reverse the whole card game that's on the table right now. The golden solution he then has is: Putin's friends are no longer allowed to shop in London and no longer to their cottage in Kensington. I am not saying that it will have no effect, but Putin is playing a huge game with tens of thousands of soldiers on the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u32	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u33	Would Putin turn that around in one go and listen to all of Mr Sjoerdsma's human rights wishes in one go when a few friends can't shop anymore and can't go to their real estate? I don't think this is the answer. I ask Mr Sjoerdsma what indication is there that the proposal he is making, the one he has been making for years, will actually have such a great impact. What proof does he have of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u34	The evidence is, I think, obvious. I still hope to be able to count on the support of the VVD in adding corruption to the Magnitsky Act. Unfortunately, we could not count on the support of the VVD when we wanted to draw up a European Magnitsky Act to ensure that we could tackle human rights violations worldwide and freeze their assets. That is, of course, what this is about, I say to Mr Brekelmans. It's not just those trips to the Bijenkorf, it's not just those trips to the Eiffel Tower in Paris. It's about very significant capabilities. I just said it and I repeat it: Russian citizens owe as much money in Russia as they do outside. Slow down on how much money that's gonna be. The estimate is that Putin alone is already 200 billion, 200 billion!, Taken out of the bank account. Yes, that does make him nervous, because his power supports...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u36	No, Mr. Chairman, just a minute. His power rests on a small cabal of oligarchs. If that support gets away from him, he'll get nervous. And then maybe he can listen. But of course I would like to hear from Mr Brekelmans whether he has a better idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u37	I'll get to that in a minute. Look, what Russia is doing is preparing for every possible sanction. They've even run simulations that shut down the entire Internet in view of the moment when their internet system would be isolated. As far as SWIFT is concerned, they are already preparing to decouple the entire payment system of the Western world. That is the kind of sanctions they are preparing. The solutions proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma will last for months at European level. Putin's friends will have months to move their money somewhere else when they see that coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u38	Your question to Mr Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u39	The strength of sanctions is often the surprise effect. If Mr Sjoerdsma is proposing sanctions, I would like to ask him how he will ensure that they have a surprise effect. Because the way he's proposing it right now, it's gonna have zero impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u40	I think the profit is that Mr Brekelmans now implicitly acknowledges that these sanctions can have a major effect and that he would prefer us not to announce them in plenary. Of course, we can agree to that. I cannot take back the words, but very flat and very clear: my party advocates a number of things, for very strong European sanctions in case Putin still decides to do something military. That's step one. Step two is to ensure that NATO takes reassuring, reinforcing steps in Eastern Europe. We have also seen talk about Putin's agenda at the moment. Let's be honest about that, too. There is no mention of the agenda of the Netherlands. There is no talk of the European Union's agenda. There's no talking about the agenda of the West. We will have to look for tools to change that. That is what the debate should be about. If you do not agree with what I am proposing, I expect a better proposal. Otherwise we will not get out with Russia and continue to follow the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. That's a nice little bridge to Mr. Brekelmans for his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dark clouds gather over Ukraine. We just don't know exactly if, when and how fast it's gonna thunder. But the signs are very worrying. The battalions that are sending Russia to Ukraine are unprecedented. The logistical supply to activate troops is unprecedented. The number of Russian soldiers in Belarus is unprecedented. And the fire drills that take place with real rockets are also unprecedented. I can go on for a while, but many analysts say, firstly, that a targeted attack can take place at any time and secondly, that a larger attack is possible from mid-February onwards. My question to the cabinet is whether they share this analysis. I am concerned about the safety of Dutch people in Ukraine. In the event of an air or rocket attack, the airspace is suddenly not safe anymore and the Dutch can suddenly leave much more difficult. The US, UK and Australia remove nonessential embassy staff and their family members as a precaution. The Netherlands chooses not to do this. The Minister says to do this to avoid unrest and instability. I find that strange. So we are deliberately putting Dutch people at risk in Ukraine, because this prevents unrest. With this logic, we can leave people there endlessly. I don't think the choice to leave it to them is fair either. Of course there will be group pressure to stay. I really ask the Minister to give a better explanation for this choice. And what has the Minister done in recent weeks to warn Dutch people in Ukraine? The Americans inform their countrymen almost daily. Do we already have contact with more Dutch than the approximately 75 who have registered? And how often are Dutch people informed in Ukraine? Then delivering weapons. We believe that a country that is so threatened deserves support in defending itself. It is good that the government has promised cyber capacity, but this offer from the Netherlands has been there for a long time. What are the obstacles to effectively deploying this cyber capacity? In addition, as a VVD, we are sympathetic towards the supply of weapons, provided that they are defensive in nature, can be quickly deployed by Ukraine and the Netherlands which has sufficient stock. Is this still the position of the cabinet? Has the government also spoken in recent days about future support for Ukraine, should it escalate in the coming weeks? We cannot abandon Ukraine at that moment. But the Russian threat goes beyond Ukraine. This situation underlines the importance of NATO for our collective security. It is good that the Netherlands contributes more to this, including two F-35s. Romania and Bulgaria also feel threatened and are now asking for more NATO troops. I believe that the Netherlands should be open to making a contribution to this, provided that, of course, the Defence Department can handle it. Is the cabinet open to this, too? Of course, no one benefits from conflict and we all want a diplomatic solution. This requires a combination of deterrent and dialogue. To this end, the EU must act unanimously, but so far the division has often been painful to see. As far as deterrents are concerned, my question is: what is the situation with regard to the European sanction package? When does the Minister expect this to come to an end? The VVD still thinks we shouldn't rule anything out in advance. Are all the options still on the table in Brussels, despite all the reports we hear about them? Finally, the diplomatic solution. We must stick to the principle of sovereignty. An aggressive superpower like Russia must not determine the future for others. Russia's demands for NATO membership of the former Soviet States are impossible. If we make a concession now, we are sure that Russia will demand more later. In short, the only solution is for Russia to give up its demands. I'm afraid this isn't gonna happen. That's why we need to prepare for the worst. Does the Minister share this analysis or does he see room for a solution to these impossible Russian demands? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you. There's been some interruptions. First, Mr Ephraim of the Haga Group, then Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP and then Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u44	It is possible that I did not hear it correctly, but is Mr Brekelmans willing to risk Dutch troops boots on the ground Dutch lives for the sake of Ukraine? That's a pretty simple, direct question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u46	Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u47	Let's get back to this. Mr Brekelmans still insists on the fiction of the distinction between defensive and offensive weapons, while almost everyone recognizes that this difference is very relative. In reply to Parliament's questions, the cabinet also says that this distinction is very difficult to make. For example, anti-tank weapons or Patriotic missiles can of course just as well be interpreted as offensive. Does Mr Brekelmans recognise that and is he prepared to deliver such weapons to Ukraine? Or does he recognize that that oil is on the fire?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u48	I'm willing to deliver weapons like that. I don't recognize that oil on the fire. What Russia has stationed is many times heavier than what Mr Van Dijk is talking about. So to see that as a provocation, it's purely Russian propaganda. There's been a lot of discussion about the definition of defensive and offensive weapons. Of course, you can use any weapon in theory in an offensive way. You can take off a helmet and hit an opponent with it on his head. It is only the case that certain types of weapons are used more defensively or are more suitable to use defensively than other types of weapons. I make a comparison with footballers sometimes. Everyone's a football player, but you have attackers and defenders. Defense forces defend mostly and attackers attack mostly. That goes for weapons, too. I think you can say very clearly that certain types of weapons are being deployed particularly defensively. Moreover, Ukraine is now in a position to defend itself. Ukraine is clearly not the aggressor. I therefore believe that, given the threat that Ukraine is facing, it is justified to supply those weapons. And whether that would be a further provocation is purely Russian propaganda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u49	Mr President, another point, if I may. That is my question about the historical awareness of the VVD. Mr Brekelmans actually said: Russia simply has to turn in all its demands, and then we are out. But that's very one-sided. I think the saying is: it takes two to tango. Putin does a lot of things wrong. We agree on that. But if you want to negotiate, you're gonna have to get a deal. Does Mr Brekelmans recognise that possible NATO membership of Ukraine, even if it is a sovereign country, would be extremely unfortunate at this time? Does he recognise that Mr Frits Bolkestein also said that you shouldn't, because that takes the balance of power too far apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u50	Mr Van Dijk says "at the moment." We agree on that. If you look at what Ukraine is like now, it is far from meeting the criteria for becoming a member of the EU or NATO. I think we all agree on that. It is therefore clear that Ukraine will not be able to join NATO in the short term. But it's about the underlying principle. The underlying principle is that a sovereign country can decide for itself whether it looks to the West or the East. Russia says, by definition, we do not want Ukraine to move towards NATO or the European Union over the next few decades. If we give that up, we will give up a central, fundamental principle of sovereignty for Putin's power policy. We are doing so not only for Putin's power policy, but also for Xi Jinping's power policy and for other dictators who have a world view of 100 years ago. As far as I'm concerned, we absolutely shouldn't cross that bridge. We can negotiate arms control, for example. You can make agreements about that. We can agree on more transparency about military exercises. But we are not going to negotiate a fundamental principle of sovereignty with Putin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you. Mr Cedar, Christian Union, and then Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u52	In the debate with Mr Van Dijk, I also said that consensus on the Christian Union is crucial. It is crucial that you can show one fist and show that you are able to make appointments. Now you ask the cabinet to look favourably at Ukraine's request. I would also like to ask you the following question. As far as I know, perhaps you know more than we do, it is only the US, the United Kingdom and some Baltic States that have promised to supply arms. You are now saying that the Netherlands must join them, regardless of whether the other EU countries, Germany, England, Italy, are involved or not. Do you not think that you are going too far in the balance, balance, unity, the fist? I'm curious about the VVD's vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u53	Well, the list Mr Ceder mentions is longer. Poland and the Czech Republic are also on it. I believe that a decision is now being taken in France. It's benevolent to deliver weapons. It says very explicitly: do not put us in the same list as Germany, because we are prepared to deliver. You can see that there is no European consensus in this respect. We just have to see that with each other. One country wants more than another. I do not think that we should allow ourselves to be held back by the country that is willing to go the least. Then we are at the level of Germany and we only deliver helmets. In my opinion, each country must make its own assessment. Ukraine has made a bilateral request to the Netherlands. I therefore believe that we should simply decide what we want and what we do not want to deliver. I have explained the criteria for this in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u54	In the run-up to the debate, I had the impression that a lot of our weapons would go that way. This has been actively tweeted and many things have been said, but Mr Brekelmans has become a little more cautious and realistic in the debate today. Is that a sighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u55	Well, I can't judge your perception, but at least it's not my message. I said earlier and also now that the Netherlands should be open to any request, provided that it meets a number of criteria. I have emphasised these criteria before. I didn't say that if we don't have something in stock, we can deliver it all of a sudden. I also said earlier that we are not going to supply Patriots, for example, because Dutch people have to serve them. I have therefore also indicated the reluctance to do so earlier. I have seen realistically, as Mrs Mulder herself has already stressed, that the DOD does not have huge supplies. So we really need to see what we can spare. I've said that several times. I think it is mainly about political intent. If we have those weapons available, Ukraine can quickly use them itself and they are defensive in nature, then we must be very willing to deliver them. I've said that before, and that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u56	Last question, Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u57	Does that mean that everything we need in the Netherlands can be purchased, so to speak? The Secretary of Defense has been given a considerable budget in the new coalition agreement. Some of them may be heading towards Ukraine, perhaps even later towards the Baltic States. If we want to defend them properly, we may need to. Is that something Mr. Brekelmans is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u58	Well, I'm not gonna pull money out of my pocket in one go that's not there. I can imagine that if Ukraine makes a request and we are unable to deliver material in the short term, because we do not have the stock, and instead we can provide financial support within existing budgets, we are open to such a cabinet proposal. Even if you look at the priorities we have as the Netherlands within our Defence and Foreign budgets. I think this is a very acute threat. It's a priority to resist that. I am open to this within the existing budgets. If we now have to buy new weapons and then give them to Ukraine, it will take a long time. I would therefore first of all like to see whether we can deliver what is being asked and, if we can't, look at alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you. Mr Sjoerdsma, D66, and then Mr Eppink, Ja21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u60	I believe that we must change the dynamics and ensure that Putin talks about our demands. I have a plan for that. Let's take him and his oligarchal clique in their wallet. Mr Brekelmans did not think that was wise, but fortunately he had a plan of his own that he would show in his term. I just haven't heard anything but what the cabinet's about to do. I am still very curious about it, because every good plan is nicely taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u61	Unlike Mr Sjoerdsma, I do not wear such large pants. I am not suggesting that I now have a solution here that I can suddenly change Putin's mind completely. If you really want to change the dynamics, I'm not advocating that you should be the first to show aggression. You should now say: we are not waiting for Putin, but are now going to impose economic sanctions to put pressure on him. I am not in favour of that. I do not think we should be the aggressor. I am not going to say here that we as the Netherlands or as the European Union are able to completely reverse the card deck. We must use a combination of deterrents to make Putin's costs as high as possible to prevent him from doing so and look for a diplomatic solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u62	So I understand that the VVD's plan is unfortunately not there. That's a bit of a shame because it's not about "wearing big pants." The point is that we defend our interests and values as best we can, that we do not allow Putin to dictate and not just talk about what he wants, but also about what we want. That's what this has to be about. That is why my question to Mr Brekelmans is whether he can at least see room to do what I propose to do on top of what the cabinet is doing. Because then at least we have an opportunity to wear the thumb screws and change the dynamics. I wouldn't want to be the first to show aggression. That seems to me to be a very unwise plan and let us not speculate about it, as has just been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u63	I have always been in favour of imposing personal, human sanctions against Putin and the people around him. We have also done this in previous instances, out of criticism of Russia. It's not a whole new thing either. It's something we've been trying for years and it's having little effect. That is also my criticism of Mr Sjoerdsma's plan. Mr Sjoerdsma says: we are now going to reverse all the safety dynamics. I then expect a huge plan, but he then takes a small measure and presents it as a grand one that will cause Putin to tremble and completely change his mind. I find that unrealistic. I think you should always take a realistic look at foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u64	There is an interruption by Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u65	Just one short thing to supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u66	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u67	In the longer term, it is important to reduce our dependence on countries such as Russia and China, so that we are able to exert real economic pressure and indeed set our agenda. I hope I can find Mr Sjoerdsma by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u68	Mr. Brekelmans mentioned "wearing big pants." It is the case in international politics that big powers usually attract big pants. That is what Russia is doing, and you can see that Ukraine's crisis is always coming back. This was the case in 2008. If we look at the Cuban crisis in 1961, the Soviet Union has put nuclear weapons there and the United States has said: we will not tolerate that. They also put on big pants. Shouldn't we look at the security interests of these great powers, China, which is also part of the process, and respect the level of reality that goes with it? Otherwise, we will all be working on small countries' lilliputter politics: small state eggs!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u69	I agree with Mr Eppink that we need to take a realistic look at the balance of power. That was also my answer to Mr Sjoerdsma. I believe that, with Russian troops being built up and the dependence we have on Russia, relations are currently such that we are not able to completely turn 180 degrees. But that is not to say, and that is what Mr Eppink is arguing for, that, despite our fundamental principles of sovereignty, we give in to Putin's power policy and pressure and say: we give up that principle of sovereignty and let Russia decide where the future of Ukraine lies. That's way out of line for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. Brekelmans. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. Hard to imagine, but on only two and a half hours of flying from here ordinary citizens are preparing for a possible raid by Russian troops. Additional suitcases are being put in place. It's crowded at the militia registration office. And in the meantime, they're trying to live their normal lives. Unfortunately, Ukrainians have become accustomed after eight years of war. The situation in Europe has not been so critical since the end of the Cold War. The stakes are Ukraine's sovereignty and the freedom of the country to decide for itself who its friends are. This certainly does not include President Putin. He has never been able to appreciate that the neighbouring country has not been subject to Moscow since 1991. And now suddenly, threatening an invasion, he demands NATO's promise that Ukraine can never become a member. A wanted excuse for a possible attack. There are no plans at all to allow Ukraine to join NATO in any time. That does not make Putin's demand any less unacceptable. "What to do?', to quote another Russian, Lenin. Well, make every effort to prevent a real attack from Russia by continuing to talk, but at the same time make it clear to Moscow that the price Putin will have to pay in the event of aggression will be very high. As far as the PvdA is concerned, that price may consist of a robust sanction package, including the cessation of Nord Stream 2 and the unbundling of SWIFT. But that will require the whole of the EU. It is therefore worrying to see how Victor Orbán played Putin's friend again in Moscow this week. Is the cabinet afraid that, if we come to an end, for example, Orbán could stop a firm sanction package? Will different scenarios be taken into account when compiling the sanction package, for example stricter in the event of a major invasion than in actions in Ukraine or a cyber attack? My group would not be in favour of that. Aggression is aggression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u72	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u73	I hear the speaker saying that there are no plans for Ukraine to join NATO. I was reminded of the Bucharest Declaration of 2008, which literally states in the final declaration: "It is against Ukraine's will to become a NATO member." That is a literal quote from the 2008 Bucharest Declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u74	Yeah, that's right. I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u75	So there are clearly stated objectives for Ukraine to join NATO. You can't deny that. That was never formally withdrawn. You say that there are no plans at all for Ukraine to join NATO. Yes, it is! Since 2008 this has been a standing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u76	I said, in some time. It is true that Ukraine can become a member of NATO, especially if it wants to. But it is not the case that, in any NATO capital, it is being discussed that Ukraine or Georgia would soon become a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u77	So now we're in the short-term game. We have always seen this with the EU: no, there are no plans to install Eurobonds at all; oh, they are there, but not in the short term; oh, has the short term already happened? That's when it happens. It is simply part of NATO's discourse, and indeed the EU's discourse, to include Ukraine. Surely you cannot throw that away by saying that there is no concrete date on which it joins? That's what they're talking about and what they're doing, to pull Ukraine in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u78	Ukraine may become a member of NATO. If it so wishes, it is unlikely that it will happen in the coming years, and a country has never been forced to join NATO. Each country does so of its own free will, contrary to what Russia wants, namely imposing it on its neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u79	Please continue your speech, Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u80	Aggression is aggression. Then you should immediately choose a hard line-up and not start at the bottom of the ladder with weak sanctions, as we saw in Belarus. My group appreciates the fact that the Prime Minister and Minister Hoekstra have travelled to Kiev to show solidarity with the Ukrainians and offer assistance. We have also known since the last debate in the Chamber that a concrete request for aid has been made to the government. But what exactly is that about? The Netherlands has pledged support in countering cyber attacks. According to the Prime Minister, weapons supplies are still "sensitive." With this remark in mind, how should we assess Minister Hoekstra's previously demonstrated willingness to reflect on the delivery of defensive weapons to Ukraine? Does "sensitive" mean the coalition isn't out yet? I was a little worried about that, if I'm honest, when I listened to the previous speakers. It was and is very busy this week in Kiev. Everyone wants to help, but I'm a little dizzy. Biden increases the stakes, Poland, the UK and Ukraine announce a pact, the Normandy Format is back together, EU President Macron demands a role, Erdogan comes to mediate. And they're all on the phone with Putin or Lavrov. What's the Western direction back there? Or is this one missing? Unity within the EU and NATO is our strongest weapon, so let's do everything we can to preserve it. How does the Netherlands contribute to this? Should sanctions be imposed, are we prepared for any counter-actions, such as the cessation of Russian gas supplies? Does the Cabinet have those plans ready? In the short term, it is not a solution, but the dependence of many EU countries on Russian gas is a major strategic risk. Let's hope we get out of there through diplomacy with Russia. The consequences of a new military attack by Russia against Ukraine would be too great for the whole of Europe. But we have to have these talks with a straight back, with the guiding principle that nothing is decided about Ukraine without the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u81	Thank you, Mrs Piri. There is one final question from Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u82	I hear Mrs Piri say a number of very sensible things, namely that there must be a strong economic sanction package, that there must be European unity and that defensive weapons must be delivered to Ukraine, if requested. Especially with all these things, it's just Germany that's bothering. In particular, the SPD, the European sister party of the PvdA, is obstructing and ensuring that we do not have that unity, that there is no sanction package and that those defensive weapons are not delivered. How does Mrs Piri view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u83	Thanks for the question, because it's good to get rid of that image. As the Labour Party, we absolutely agree with Germany and with our sister party SPD that Russia is the aggressor. That may be a logical observation, but we are totally in agreement on that. We also agree that Ukraine can decide for itself who its friends are and what orientation it has. Let us not be mistaken: if sanctions are imposed, Germany will be hit hardest by all European countries. But the German Government and the SPD also believe that all options for economic sanctions should be on the table, including the closure of Nord Stream 2. A difference between the Labour Party and the SPD is that, if the Dutch cabinet decides to supply defensive weapons, we are prepared to see if we can raise the price for Moscow in the event of a possible attack. We are prepared to look into that. Given the history of Germany, I do understand that they are having this discussion in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u84	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One-mindedness is the most powerful weapon we can radiate to Putin. Unagreed in the approach, in the setting of borders and in our political and economic response to the outside world. Unity within the European Union and unanimity within NATO. Mr. Chairman. The conflict is taking place in Europe. The US has repeatedly asked the EU to take responsibility for its security in its own region. But the EU is not capable enough. This is how we watch Biden and Putin negotiate the future of our continent. How does the Secretary of State view this? Where do we see this lack of unity in Europe? For example, Orbán's visit to Putin. But also to the emergence of these small bilateral initiatives. Denmark is sending a ship to the Baltic Sea. Spain is sending a ship to the Black Sea. Lithuania is sending her part of the European Cyber Rapid Response Team. And the Netherlands suggests wanting to do the same as Ukraine asks. All good little steps, but not nearly enough to form a fist and to guard order and peace on our continent. Limited European integration, including defence cooperation, prevents a rapid, united European response. Fortunately, NATO now stands on its feet and sends a clear signal to Putin. At the same time, we, or NATO, must also show wisdom and not go for further escalation, so that Putin has the space to organise his retreat. Does the Foreign Minister share this analysis and, if so, what steps does he take with colleagues to prevent and organise escalation? What is the list Ukraine asked for? How does the Netherlands relate to this? And why this way? The following questions are also included. For example, when will the Cyber Team be deployed and how quickly can this team be deployed? Is the mandate only defensive and defensive against cyberattacks, or is the mandate also reactively carrying out cyberattacks on Russian targets at the time of a potential invasion? What other preparations are being made at European level to respond quickly and effectively to an invasion? Does the cabinet also look at the importance of the Ukrainian economy and, if so, how? And how does the cabinet guarantee this? Mr. Chairman. The economic sanction package must be clear. A possible offensive comes at a high price. It is still unclear what the sanction package is and when it will be deployed. How, for example, will Nord Stream 2 become part of this? The letter we received just before the debate states that, if there is a reason for this, the cabinet will endeavour to impose a package of sanctions at European level. Do I understand that there is still a great deal to be said about this and that this is not yet on the table? Mr. Chairman. It is a scenario that we must avoid at all costs, but should the situation escalate, do we have humanitarian aid for the most vulnerable groups in the case of a Russian takeover? Let us stay away from escalating rhetoric which drives up the military display of power and increases the chance of confrontation and let us prepare ourselves in the background for a rapid evacuation, should that be necessary. But above all, let us unite and ensure that the situation de-escalates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u86	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u87	Mr Dassen talks about the fact that there is no unity in Europe. That's right. We see Johnson go to Kiev. Macron has his own agenda. Germany has its own policy. The Czech Republic one, Hungary the other. Can you tell me why?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u88	This is because there is not enough European cooperation to organise it with a common vision of the future in such a way that we in Europe can respond in one way to these situations. In this respect, we have too little democratic coordination at European level and we are organized far too nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u89	Could it not be that the interests of the various countries differ so far that there is no common position and each one begins for itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u90	I don't think so. It is often said that the European interest would be a very different interest to the national interest of individual countries. But I believe that we all share the same interests in Europe, especially when it comes to the safe future. So I think, on the contrary, that the European interest for many countries is absolutely the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u91	A little in addition to my learned colleague, Mr Eppink, because I also think that these interests are quite different: that, in the end, everyone wants world peace is also a common interest, but the way in which that must be achieved and the sacrifices that must be made will really vary from one country to another. Following that, does Mr Dassen think that, if Europe were to join forces in the military field, it would still be possible, after the departure of the United Kingdom, with one of the strongest military forces in Europe, to make a dent with a European army in a pack of butter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u92	I do not think we can do that at the moment in Europe. In recent years, we have invested far too little in European defence. You can see that in different countries. We had a conversation today with the ambassadors of the Baltic States. They indicated that they would comply with the NATO 2% standard, but many countries in Europe do not. At the moment, we are dependent on the United States and we really need the NATO alliance. We are very much in favour of this. But it would be nice, and that is what the United States is actually asking us, if there were a stronger European pillar under NATO and we could get a European response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u93	I agree with Mr Dassen that it will be a match of bluff poker and armprints between Putin and Biden when it comes to the end. But I am very pleased that Mr Dassen feels that there is not enough investment in defence. I assume he wants the defence budget to be increased to 2% of GDP, as NATO wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u94	Yeah, that's right. That is also clearly stated in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u95	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I'll see if Mr. De Roon is here. I saw him. Yes. I call Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u96	Mr President, thank you. Everyone in our country was first a virus expert, now it's swarming with Russian experts. There's a lot of speculation about an invasion and about Putin's intentions. We're almost being talked into a war, it seems, with war rhetoric and influence from all sides. Fortunately, Ukraine itself says that an attack is not yet imminent at all. Mr. Chairman. If Putin had any intention of going that way, he would not have been shocked by Mr Rutte and Mr Hoekstra. What that duo Ukraine had to offer yesterday were just threatening words about sanctions and a few ICT experts. I ask the Minister: where did they come from? And there was talk of supplies of military goods. The newspapers then show that it is possible about metal detectors and some helmets. Even the terrorists in Syria received more support from the Netherlands in the past. Therefore, save the Netherlands this failure and give nothing, don't give any military goods at all. Ukraine is not a NATO member. We don't owe that country any military assistance at all. In addition, the provision of military equipment can also be seen as an advance towards increased military support in the longer term. That's something we don't want at all. In addition, our own armed forces are not in order either. I'd say work on that first. That is why I would like to call for the plan for arms supplies and military support to be shot down today. A better bet than arms supplies would be to stop the chicken game that is now being played from both sides: both run hard on the abyss and know on both sides of no stopping. I'm asking the cabinet to deploy more diplomacy towards Russia. Please bear in mind that that country does not want to be infected with social decay, as it believes we can see. That's why Putin doesn't want to see integrated into Western alliances and thus Western Ukraine. Let me say to the government that this can be taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Above all, we must prevent Ukraine from being torn apart by Putin and the power politicians from Brussels and Washington. In this respect, the visit of Rutte and Hoekstra to Kiev was a missed opportunity to take away the expectations in Kiev, but also certainly the concerns in Moscow. For example, by conveying the message that Ukraine will not become a NATO and EU member as far as the Netherlands is concerned. And not only, as the government letter states, that it is not on the agenda, but will not be on the agenda either. This is also a message that fits and is more in line with the outcome of the Ukraine referendum of 6 April 2016. I ask the rulers if they have thought of that referendum result at all. What does that result mean for this government? I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u97	Sure. Mrs Piri, PvdA, and then Mr Kuzu. Mrs. Piri, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u98	I hear Mr De Roon say: we must be careful not to tear Ukraine apart between Brussels on the one hand and Moscow on the other. We have all seen what Moscow has been doing since 2014 to keep Ukraine in its sphere of influence. I saw that, fortunately, Geert Wilders also said that Ukraine's sovereignty must be respected by Russia. At least that was one sentence I agreed with. Then what is Brussels doing to get Ukraine into its sphere of influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u99	This is a step towards greater cooperation, a step towards further integration of their economy with that of the EU, a step towards further developing Ukraine's society and a step towards further interfering with the political debate in Ukraine and influencing it with subsidies. Russia doesn't want that. Russia does not want that to happen at its borders, because it is feared that Russia will be able to do so itself. That's a fact. They just don't want to. As a government, you can say that perhaps we should pay attention to Russia's interest. If we can prevent a war from happening, it may be less relevant whether we consider it to be a good thing or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u100	Things are getting a little messy right now. I ask: what does Brussels do? Then I hear all kinds of things that the democratically elected government in Ukraine wants, with the support of the people. Mr De Roon then talks about: yes, but Putin does not want that. I believe you recognise the sovereignty of Ukraine. If you're a sovereign country, don't you decide who your friends are?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u101	Sure, that's true. Ukraine can just decide for itself what they want. But it's up to us, the West, to decide what we do. As far as PVV is concerned, this does not include the provision of military equipment. Furthermore, taking some distance from the attempts to "westen" Ukraine is part of that. I don't know if that's a good linguistic expression, but you know what I mean. Just keep a little distance from that and give Russia that comfort, that certainty, I would say, that that is not our intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u102	We have seen in the past what "give comfort to Russia" does: the illegal annexation of Crimea, eight years of war in Eastern Ukraine and de facto total control of East Ukraine by Russian separatists and Moscow. I liked that Mr De Roon indicated that he stood for Ukraine's sovereignty. I was wondering if Crimea is one of them. Your party leader has said: stop whining about Crimea, because Russia is never going to give it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u103	Yeah, the last thing my party leader said and what you're quoting is just true. Of course Crimea is an international part, and an indivisible part, of Ukraine. We don't want to take anything away from that. But you can jump high or low, and threaten left or right, but Russia is not going to give up Ukraine, just as Israel is not going to give up Jerusalem and the Golan Height. Then you can say a thousand times that this is contrary to international judicial rules, but those countries are not going to do so because they consider these areas too important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u104	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u105	As Mrs Piri rightly pointed out, this is a bit of a mess. How can you stand on one side for Ukraine's sovereignty and indicate that Crimea is part of it, and then deliver the message: you should not complain about it? However, I would like to take a look at Mr De Roon's head to see how these two things are compatible. Can you please explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u106	Mr Kuzu calls that 'buggering', but of course we have never used that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u107	That's what the party leader at the PVV said, and I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u108	Well, at least I didn't say that. The point is: you can want anything, you can constantly talk about it and threaten it with sanctions and I know it all, but none of that is going to help. It doesn't make much sense to do that. You better try to get on better ground with a country like Russia by giving them some comfort in their concerns. From there, you might see changes in Russia in the very long term. Then perhaps, someday, far in the future, I think that will take longer than I still have a chance to talk about Crimea again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u109	I would like to continue with this, because the answer given by my colleague at the PVV actually raises more and more questions. My question is: how does the comfort of the PVV Putin relate to the sovereignty of a country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u110	If you want to talk about the sovereignty of a country and therefore, in this case, to prevent Ukraine from being attacked unexpectedly, then you will have to offer Russia some comfort on those matters that matter. If you don't, then you're stuck in the situation we're already in, which is that they're yelling at each other at two different levels "we demand this and we demand it." And it doesn't lead to anything! So one way or another you will have to make a movement that will also allow Putin to de-escalate the matter again without war. Then you can say 'that is not related to Ukraine's sovereignty', but that is the case. It's more important that there's no war at all, than that we stick to this kind of thing and there's going to be a war. Then we can only feel good in our little souls with the thought: we have maintained the sovereignty of that country, which is now in ruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u111	Offering that comfort, that appealing, we've done it in the past and that doesn't lead to war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u112	Apples must, of course, only be a first move to see if you can get movement and an opening in the debate with Russia, because that debate is hardly really there. There has been talk, but it hasn't led to anything yet. If you show that you understand the things that worry them and that you're willing to think about it and talk to them, then you're a lot further than you are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u113	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u114	As far as PVV is concerned, the Dutch interest is number one. Our government must not be fooled by war fighters on both sides. We therefore look with surprise at politicians who take advantage of each other and join talk programmes to argue for tough sanctions against Russia. Sanctions that can explode like a grenade in our own face, with great damage for Dutch people, when we don't even know if Russia wants a military operation and what it will look like. Mr. Chairman. If things escalate unexpectedly, can I at least be promised that a possible sanction package will always go first to the House of Representatives? It must not be the case that Parliament should be sidelined by sanctions that can affect us as a vulnerable economy. Let us stop our government from throwing a nuclear sanction bomb on our economy. Where this cabinet with towering inflation makes many Dutch people sink into a swamp, it does want to draw the wallet for the Ukrainians. I would therefore like to clarify this cabinet and to know how many millions this is going to cost and why this money is not being spent on Dutch people who are in trouble right now or who end up in it because of, for example, rising housing and energy prices. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u115	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then we go to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u116	Thank you, Mr President. People whose lives are at stake in an invasion, who are the victims of this military display of power by Putin. That they are those tens of thousands of Ukrainians who feel compelled to follow training on how to survive an invasion or how to pick up the weapons themselves to protect themselves. The Russian people want the government to deal with their welfare rather than with power politics. International stability is not only in our interest but above all in their interest. These are the people who it should be about. Mr. Chairman. Delivering weapons, however, is oil on the fire. We can see that military armament is increasing, and so there is a risk of more instability and more escalation. Delivering weapons is getting involved in a conflict. The Party for Animals therefore wants everything to be done for de-escalation. For what is NATO going to do if the Ukrainian armed forces, despite arms, are still undermining it? Does the Cabinet consider this scenario? That would be a disaster that couldn't be overlooked. Have further agreements been reached during the Minister's visit on the bilateral request made by Ukraine? And what exactly is that request? In addition to focusing on promoting dialogue and de-escalation, a sanction package is extremely important in replying to Putin. What is the situation with this sanction package, I ask the cabinet. And what is the role of the Netherlands in this? Last year there were even constructive talks between the Netherlands and Russia on Nord Stream 2 and our Prime Minister was still talking about a "commercial project." Does the Minister now recognise the great geopolitical interest in Nord Stream 2? Is there therefore a change in the cabinet position? Is he prepared to put an end to this project in the Netherlands as soon as possible? How does the Cabinet view the possibility of sanctioning Russian oligarchs? Mr Sjoerdsma also mentioned this. Putin would be hit in his immediate vicinity. Is this option on the table as far as the cabinet is concerned? And will the cabinet also propose to address the letterbox companies in the Netherlands, as previous speakers have suggested? What is the expected impact of this sanction package on the sanctions that are already in place? Mr. Chairman. This conflict is yet another example of how vulnerable we are to Russian gas dependence. It is important not only for peace and security, but also for the climate and for the Groningen people that we become independent of gas as soon as possible. How's the exit plan coming along? I'll ask the Cabinet. Is the government prepared to come forward with a medium-term strategy for the elimination of gas together with the Minister for Climate and Energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u117	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u118	Thank you. First of all, welcome to the ministers in this Chamber. I haven't seen them here yet, so welcome on behalf of the BBB. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. The first words of the Ukrainian national anthem are: Ukraine is not yet lost. These remind me of the story of a Ukrainian mother. A mother who raised her children in the ruins of the Soviet Union. A mother who saw her eldest son leave for the front in Donbas in 2014. A mother who lost her son to ambitions of Russian oligarchs: billionaires who also make millions of investments here on the Zuidas. This mother lives in fear these days, with her only surviving son training in the woods every weekend to defend Ukrainian independence as a reservist. Let us not forget that. Let us not forget that, from our safe plenary room, we are debating geopolitics, sitting in calf-studded chairs, when we have no enemy at our borders. Let's not forget that we talk about people's lives. Mr. Chairman. Ukraine does not belong to NATO, but that does not mean that it is almost as far to Kiev from this plenary room as to Lisbon in Portugal. Closer than you think. The security of Ukraine is therefore important for us. BBB is for a clear position. If we stand by Ukraine, we must say: we prevent war by making the price of an invasion of Russia unacceptable. This means that we must hit Putin's friends, who use our country as a piggy bank, hard financially. In addition, it means that we must support Ukraine in military terms and help to arm Ukraine if necessary. If necessary. The only thing that scares Russia is clarity. Otherwise, it's like turning off wolves with a paper handkerchief. Does the Minister intend to join Poland and the United Kingdom, which clearly state their support for Ukraine? And what about options such as training missions, armament and/or directing frigates? Mr. Chairman. The Russian economy is 50% larger than the Dutch economy. It is a country with a strongly ageing population, and yet they know how to make the whole of Europe tremble again. Why are we so dependent on Russian whims? I would like to hear from the Minister a long-term vision of Russia's strategic independence. As far as BBB is concerned, there are three pillars for this. One: a defence that meets NATO's 2% standard; a defence that can satisfy its constitutional task with confidence; a defence with a strong national reserve. Two: no dependence on Russian gas. Until the completion of the energy transition, we need to look for alternative suppliers. There are. Life under the Russian gas thumb is not sustainable. Then the most important pillar: The Netherlands must never, but never become dependent on countries such as Russia for its food supply. The fact that we can continue to feed our own people with our own farmers is strategically a very great wealth. Don't slaughter this chicken with the golden eggs. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a proposal to the Members of Parliament. Yesterday, I saw a picture from the Ukrainian Parliament where parliamentarians held up flags of countries supporting Ukraine's sovereignty. The Dutch flag was missing between the great diversity of flags. I've got a flag right here. I suggest taking a picture with the willing Members of Parliament during the suspension, because let us be clear: the Netherlands supports the sovereignty and freedom of the people of Ukraine. As far as BBB is concerned, the position of the Netherlands in the coming weeks is very simple: be an advocate of peace and dialogue, but make it clear that any attack on Ukraine's independence will be a very expensive joke for Putin and his comrades, especially in the economic field. The old-fashioned carrot and a stick: it's the only way to force your respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u119	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the border between Ukraine and Russia, the threat has increased considerably in recent weeks. It is, in fact, exactly as Mrs van der Plas says: it is almost impossible for us to imagine what that is like. We had a meeting this afternoon with the ambassadors of the Baltic countries. Who described very strikingly what threat they should live with. For us it's still a theoretical story, but for a lot of people it's not and it's about life and death. We need to be well aware of that. Mr. Chairman. Nor should we underestimate the geopolitical impact of this situation. The stability of our own continent, of Europe, is in danger. A threat of escalation, a war, in Ukraine on the borders of the European Union has a major geopolitical impact. We also know all too well in Europe and also in the Netherlands what the Russian threat at the border of Europe can do for us. Think of the disaster with MH17. The situation requires us as the Netherlands in the EU and in NATO to work in unity. This has already been highlighted by a number of people, among others by Mr Dassen. That, I believe, is the core: that unity that we need to monitor and achieve, including in Europe. Only then can we really be an effective block against Putin. We must be clear that the price for Russian aggression will be very high. Mr. Chairman. It remains of great importance in the coming weeks to focus on de-escalation. GroenLinks still believes that a diplomatic exit is possible. We want to make every effort to prevent a Russian raid in Ukraine, but we cannot be naive. We have seen in Crimea and Georgia that Putin does not shy away from a military attack and can act quickly. That is why we need to be well prepared in case the conflict escalates. I am pleased to hear that Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Hoekstra are also aware of this and have travelled to Kiev this week. In light of this meeting, I have a number of questions. Can the Minister first state what was discussed with President Zelenski yesterday? What is the exact question of support that Ukraine put to the Netherlands in its request for aid two weeks ago? To what extent does it deviate from the question of support that has been put to the European Union? Can the Minister specify what he means by "support for cybersecurity" offered to Ukraine? What exactly are we talking about? The Minister says in Trouw: we have a lot of expertise in that area and if we can help, we are available. It's not clear to me how we're gonna help. Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent Russia from attacking, it is important to have a strong sanction package ready; a number of colleagues have already mentioned this. GroenLinks considers it important to reach agreement on this at European level. As far as we are concerned, SWIFT's banking system, its decoupling and Nord Stream 2 are also explicitly on the table. We also consider it important to see how we can hit Putin by imposing sanctions against the oligarchs on Putin's side. I have some questions about the status of the possible sanction package. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister to what extent there is now agreement at European level on the sanctions to be introduced. Second. Does the Netherlands or Europe have a list of Putin's inner circle, against which we can impose additional sanctions? And if so, what sanctions does the Minister consider most effective against this group? Third. How does the Minister intend to engage in the reinforced sanction unit that my colleague, Mr Van der Lee, has worked hard for? Finally. We can, of course, argue for all kinds of sanctions, but in the meantime, I have already said it in an interruption debate with Mr Sjoerdsma, because of our very favourable tax climate, the cream de la crème of the Russian industry in the Netherlands. To name a few: Yandex, a large Russian internet giant, a search engine, department store and transport platform; natural gas giant Gazprom; oil company Rosneft. And that also applies to hundreds of other Russian companies. My question is: what does this cabinet want to do to meet them? Is the Cabinet prepared to take action? Mr. Chairman. I agree with the concerns expressed by Mr Brekelmans about the Dutch who are in Ukraine. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that Europe must act as united as possible, because that is how we can be effective. If we don't watch our backs, we're gonna be a joke in international politics. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u121	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u122	Mr. Chairman. It is good that Mrs Teunissen, Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Ellemeet started with the people in Ukraine themselves, with what it does to them and how it affects them. It is a litmus test, for the people of Ukraine, but also for Europe and the Western Alliance. For if Putin succeeds in playing the European countries against each other, that could be the end of our hegemony and thus the end of a long 20th century in which the balance struck us. I think this is what Putin also realizes and that Putin balances on the sliding panels of global politics. It may be a paradigm shift that will determine our lives over the next few decades. Am I overvalued by the events we're discussing today? Is this too much honor for Putin? If we place these developments in the withdrawal of the US from Europe in recent decades, in the increasing influences of China on the world, in the state of law erosion within the EU and in the Brexit, in the tensions prevailing everywhere through the pandemic, in the growing nationalist populism in many western democracies and in the pressure that climate change puts on the world, then it shows that it is restless on many fronts. This increasing escalation at the Ukrainian border can be seen as a fuse in a powder keg whose size we can probably only assess in retrospect. Therefore, our commitment must remain: de-escalation. In doing so, we should not underestimate the role and position of the Netherlands as a loyal member of the Western Alliance, our economic and innovative forces and our tradition of rights and tolerance, but certainly not overestimate it. And so we will still have to get involved in the diplomatic game, strengthen our ties with the US and see what we can do with the resources we have. We must be prepared for what is possible if we are to impose severe sanctions. I hope that all Putin's friends are in that whole sanction package. Today it seems to be something completely new, but I really hope that was already on the table. Mr. Chairman. At EU level, there has been talk of accompanying measures, which I hope will also be taken in sectors that can be affected. Can we speed up legislation to combat collusive interference in our economy and the rule of law? Mr. Chairman. I would like to know the outcome of the visit by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to Ukraine. How do the ministers now assess the situation after they have been there? For example, how can we best deal with evacuations? Mr. Chairman. There are parties right to point out that supplying arms to Ukraine can work as a red rag on a bull with the Russians. At the same time, we heard yesterday from NATO that the construction of troops by Russia at the border is exceptional. No one's seen before. Not to be seen as a regular exercise. During the committee debate on 20 January, I indicated that my group believes that the supply of arms in defence of Ukraine is an option, given Russia's increased troop building on the border with Ukraine. At the same time, we are on the verge of major investments in our own defence. The relevant question is what, in reality, we could deliver now. I think there are some parties who are very positive about that. But maybe the Secretary of Defense can make an assessment here today. What options does she think are real? Mr. Chairman. Both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have mentioned the most obvious option, namely cyber expertise. We think that is a logical conclusion. We know that there is a cyber war in parallel with the construction of troops. The Netherlands has capacity and great technological skills. To what extent can we use them and have been asked for them? And if Ukraine didn't do that, was it done by other countries? Can we hang out with them? We want to stick to international coalitions. We want to ensure that we give a firm answer with the other countries and show that we care about our allies, especially the Baltic States and Georgia, which have already been mentioned in the Minister's letter. I also ask the Minister what else is needed to meet them further if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u123	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u124	I'm not surprised. I really hear from GroenLinks to the VVD the same language of war, the same pro-NATO language of war, anti-Russian. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But where is the historical awareness? I ask you the same question, Mrs Mulder. Did you read the article, the interview, with Jaap de Hoop Scheffer? Your party colleague said: "It was, of course, an incredible mistake to offer NATO membership to Ukraine and Georgia in Bucharest in 2008, because that is why Putin has found a hook to celebrate his war spirit on victory." Do you understand? Do you see that side of the story?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u125	Yeah, and that did work out the way it did. But don't say that right now, we're gonna sit back and we're not gonna do anything. I find that irresponsible. I want a firm sanction package. I have already indicated this in the previous debate. I would also like to see how we can work on stability in those countries, which need it badly, as well as in neighbouring countries, such as the Baltic States. I'm really worried about that. I understand, of course, that the SP is of a different opinion. I respect that, too. But I do think that we should also keep this option open here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u126	Thank you, Mrs Agnes Mulder. I give the floor to Mr Eppink of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u127	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the crisis in Ukraine is being discussed more intensively among many Heads of Government. That's a good sign. It means that diplomacy can prevail over the military aspect. I welcome the Foreign Minister back from Kiev. I hope he had a good talk there and said: Ukraine... British Prime Minister Johnson preceded him, as did the Polish Prime Minister. The Hungarian leader Viktor Orbán visited President Putin in Moscow, who again called the French President Macron. Mr Erdogan is also looking for a way in that whole thing. But talking is better than shooting. It is also important for the United States to talk to Russia. A Russian leader, whoever he is, always sees himself as the strong man when he talks to another strong man, to the American President. Unfortunately, a strong woman doesn't appear in that story yet. This is about power politics. Moscow has a focus on the United States. In Europe Putin is playing cat and mouse with the different countries, which are divided and are also divided. What is needed now is a negotiating platform and a series of negotiating points. It is about arms control, such as the position of medium-range missiles, and also about Ukraine's position. The enlargement of NATO after the end of the Soviet Union in 1991 reached the border of that process. That border is Ukraine. Literally, Ukraine means "on the edge." That's it. This leads to tensions with Russia. Former VVD leader Frits Bolkestein saw that first. He argued in the Lower House in 1997 for that very reason against the extension of NATO. In 2008, NATO wanted to put Ukraine and Georgia on the path to NATO membership. That was a mistake, according to former Secretary General of NATO Jaap de Hoop Scheffer in 2018. 'Cause the tensions immediately re-emerged. We need to learn from those lessons. JA21 believes that the Netherlands should not focus on arms supplies, and certainly not on sending troops to Ukraine. We must use this momentum of diplomacy. Does the Minister agree? JA21 wants to de-escalate the situation. I do not think it would help if the government were to wave the idea of sending weapons. What is admissible and useful is the help to increase Ukraine's cyber protection, especially by countering cyber attacks. I can wholeheartedly support that. The only thing the Netherlands can decide at EU level is a sanction package against Russia in the event of an invasion. It will be a deterrent, but it is also a double-edged sword. I am convinced that Moscow will immediately turn off the gas tap to the West. Energy prices will explode and the Netherlands will be in the cold. Inflation in the Netherlands is already 7.6%, a record high. It hasn't been this high in years. Further price increases are a major problem for many households in the Netherlands. I do not have to explain this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was Minister of Finance for this matter. Let me conclude with a Russian saying, but in Dutch: anyone who risks nothing does not drink champagne. I hope no one's risking anything and after that we can still drink champagne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I am doing my part on behalf of the Den Haan Group today, but unfortunately I do not get eight minutes. Mr. Chairman. There was euphoria in the 1990s. The Berlin Wall had fallen, Soviet satellite states were tearing away from the Russian sphere of influence and there was rapprochement between East and West. In Europe, the constant threat of war was completely over. "Peace forever" was a creed many people believed in at the time. How different the flag hangs 30 years later. Putin sends 130,000 Russian soldiers to the border of Ukraine, the West reacts to it again, and before we know it, we are in another arms race of unprecedented proportions. We're in a new cold war. As far as the groups of DENK and Den Haan are concerned, we must de-escalate, but not capitulate. Every retreating movement and every weak statement feeds the Putindoctrine. The current crisis is therefore much more than just Ukraine and may be NATO membership. The European security architecture has been tested by Putin for a long time and I am sorry to say that the European Union is failing again when it comes to a unified foreign policy. Orbán heults with Putin, Germany is acting as a sort of Switzerland because of its self-interest and the attitude of the Netherlands may be more firm as far as my group is concerned, because Russia is moving forward. The Crimea was annexed in 2014 and the West did not go beyond a sentence and a penalty package. The Donbas region has been fighting for eight years and the area is de facto under Russian control. More than 48,000 people in Crimea have been made stateless and 1.3 million ethnic Ukrainians have fled from the Donbas region to the west of the country, to Poland, or further, to Germany and the Netherlands. We stand by and look at it. At least it doesn't scare Putin off. Putin in the meantime accuses the West of Russophobia, provoke a war and even incite a genocide, while he feeds the tension time and time again and at the same time dives into the victim role. That's a special talent. We therefore owe it to our stand to send out a strong signal, the strong signal that we did not give in 2004. At the time, people were waving European flags all over Maidan Square because they were counting on us. People who protested even died while wrapped in a European flag. In 2022 we no longer see European flags in protest in Kiev, and rightly so. The citizens of Ukraine are therefore done with the EU, because they have seen that diplomacy without decisiveness is not working for them at all. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months we as the Netherlands have not known enough colour and we have tried to keep everyone friendly. That's gonna end sometime. We need to make sure the Russians don't advance any further. They trivialize their actions over the past few months, even in the Security Council, in an inappropriate way indicating that the West is creating tensions and creating fear. They're accusing everyone and everything. Nevertheless, Moscow's aggression threatens not only Ukraine, but also Europe and the international community. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what has been discussed in Kiev and whether a plan has already been drawn up against this Russian aggression. Mr. Chairman. My group will support the government in delivering defensive weapons to Ukraine. The Prime Minister's commitment to Zelenski that we are also going to provide ICT staff must also be made clear as far as my group is concerned. According to Kiev, a trilateral security pact is currently being prepared by Great Britain, Poland and Ukraine. To what extent is the Netherlands included? Is the Minister prepared to take part in this security pact? Mr. Chairman. The top diplomat Thomas-Greenfield said it nicely: Russia's aggression is not only threatening for Ukraine and Europe, but also for the international legal order. Everyone who sits here has sworn or promised to be faithful to the Constitution which states that we have the task of promoting the international legal order. Then let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u130	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u131	Mr. Chairman. Last week I was in Kiev. Not to warn the Russians for the last time or to promise Ukraine weapons, none of that is up to me. As a Dutch representative, I was there together with Chief Rabbi Jacobs for a very different purpose: to commemorate the Holocaust. A Holocaust who in Kiev got a horrible face through bullets and mass executions. In 1941, nearly 34,000 Jews were openly shot by the Nazis in two days by the Babi Jar ravine. It was a terrible bloodbath. As with the dead bodies, "sand over" was literally the motto, then in a figuratively sense it also happened in the Soviet Union. The complete killing of the Jewish population of Kiev was silenced. A survivor told me last week how he had kept quiet for 60 years. If he spoke of it, it would also become clear that he is Jewish. It indicates how history matters and how we must continue to fight against evil, including the evil of anti-Semitism. It also shows how it is too easy to classify the world around us in black and white, in heroes and villains, in good and wrong countries. I was reminded of a quote by the Russian writer and Nobel laureate Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn: the dividing line between good and evil runs not between races, classes, countries and peoples, but through every human heart. This does not mean that we must therefore remain silent in this conflict. No, we also have behaviour of countries to check against what is right and fair, against the international legal order. Russia has already crossed the line with Crimea and is now again firmly searching for the borders, literally and figuratively, not to mention that one terrible event: the taking down of the MH17, with so many Dutch victims as a result. Other countries, the European Union, the Netherlands, are challenged to set clear borders and guard borders. The sovereign state of Ukraine, on the same European continent as we live on, deserves our support and protection. First and foremost, it is desirable to continue to work with perseverance and tact, with backbone, on diplomacy to resolve points of conflict and to safeguard our interests. However, the SGP is also in favour of credible deterrents, which may include military reinforcement and economic sanctions. It has already been said a great deal today, and I repeat to my fellow Members that the price of Russian aggression must be made as high as possible. A good deterrent is important and can prevent bloodshed. Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Hoekstra were in Kiev this week and spoke with President Zelenski among others. What could they actually offer, I wondered, when it comes to military support. Given the state of our armed forces, that could never have been much. I wasn't there, so I don't know how the conversation went. But it could have gone like this: "Dear President, after the break-up of the Soviet Union, we have undressed and outdone our armed forces in a victorious rod. As a result of the occupation of Crimea, we have gradually lost sight of the issue and the cabinet sees that we really need to invest more in our defence. However, at the moment, to be honest, in the Netherlands we have more ministers than tanks, to name but one example." That is why the question remains as to whether, in this new threat too, the rulers will see a reason for strengthening our armed forces without delay and for keeping other countries and ourselves to move towards the 2% standard as quickly as possible, as it has been agreed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u132	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ukraine was the first major issue on which I spoke in politics. The Association Treaty was even the prelude to the Forum for Democracy as a political party. Among other things, I did the referendum campaign with Pepijn van Houwelingen, who is now also MP for Forum for Democracy. It feels a little familiar. After almost two years of merely corona debates, another major theme is now on the agenda. I think most people in the Netherlands still know about general history. On 6 April 2016, we were allowed to vote on that association agreement with Ukraine in a referendum. Two thirds of our population said "no" and did not think it wise to strengthen their ties with Ukraine. They feared, among other things, that it would cost us money and that it would disrupt our market by introducing all kinds of battery eggs on the Dutch market produced under conditions which Dutch farmers absolutely cannot and do not want to meet. After all, we have much higher animal welfare standards. It was also feared that it would bring EU membership and NATO membership closer to Ukraine, which would bring us to a conflict situation, a collision with Russia, and that we would get Ukraine into that incredibly complex and corrupt country in such a way that we would not get out easily. Rutte and Ollongren then ignored the referendum result. That too is well known. In a way, therefore, I am not surprised at all that we are talking in this way. If your goal is to bring Europe on the brink of war and thus bring the United States of Europe closer because you are creating an external enemy, if your goal is to destroy the Dutch economy because energy prices are rising to record levels if we no longer have gas, if your goal is to restructure and link the Internet to your digital ID through created panic about cyber attacks, like the QR code is a manifestation of that too, if you want to achieve the great reset, you are now doing very well. After the whole coronascam now the Russiascam to push people further into the new normal, into the Build Back Better ideology. But if you want to stand up for the Dutch interests and for peace and security in the world, we are doing it all wrong. Since the beginning of the 20th century, it is very important to understand this.The great strategic vision of first England, which was later taken over by the United States, is the vision of Halford Mackinder. Later that vision was repeated by Brzezinski in his book The Grand Chessboard. That vision is: divide Europe, make sure that Eurasia is not united, make sure that Germany and Russia never go together in any way, but keep the Eurasian country apart; then the Atlantic powers, the Oceanic powers, America, England and so on can dominate the world. That is the great strategic direction that we are still in. We let it dominate us. We think we're doing a sensible job right now, but we're working on the American divide-and-control policy. My view is that Europe should be a bridge between East and West. Nothing has taught the people here of the history, of the massively failed regime change operations in the Middle East. Blinded by a revolutionary agenda and by delusions of grandeur, the Yankees and the people are rushing through on a hopeless path to further destabilisation of the world. The hypocrisy there is perhaps the most shocking, the total hypocrisy of looking away at hundreds of thousands of things that are happening in the world that cannot be tolerated. For example, cyber espionage by the United States, as in Edward Snowden's NSA leaks came out. But people are screaming murder and burning over some bone that's turned up somewhere in an e-mail program. I've got to finish up, I see. I have many more fantastic examples, such as the absurd regime change attempts in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq and Russia's flawless attitude in all these conflicts. It's all smokescreen, an Orwellian game of "Oceania has always been at war with Eurasia." I'm rounding up. The best thing would be to strongly advise Ukraine to become a neutral state, such as Finland and Austria. It would be best to recognise Crimea and improve its relationship with Russia, that beautiful big country in the east. By the way, I believe that 9/11 was a false flag and that there was fraud in counting votes in the American elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u134	So, you're at the end. Then we go to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mr. Chairman. Ukraine is not a threat to Russia. However, Russia has established some 100,000 soldiers at the borders of Ukraine. Russia makes impossible and unreasonable demands. It is clear that the NATO countries must reject them. We believe in and want to remain committed to diplomatic engagement. At the same time, it is also important that European countries, like America, show a united front to Russia that threats of violence will not be rewarded by Russia. Unfortunately, I have to say that this European consensus is not yet optimal. The EU Member States are not in line, and since most of them are NATO members, neither are NATO Member States. In a sense, I consider that to be a point of profit for Putin. We need this consensus in order to determine which sanctions will be imposed, should Russian aggression occur. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can outline the force field of countries in this respect. What sanctions do the EU Member States agree on and to what extent could a leading group of like-minded countries still form a front on this issue? Think also of the statements made recently by the Prime Minister of Hungary. Who's standing where? What are the consequences of division for NATO's position? Mr. Chairman. Delivering weapons. Ukraine is not a member of NATO, but it is asking some countries, as we have seen, for help. They are asking for weapons, because the country wants to be able to defend itself better, should the Russians invade. A number of countries want to supply these weapons, especially those that already have a difficult relationship with Russia. We know that the Netherlands is sympathetic to the request, but when are we going to take decisions and what are the criteria for doing so? Has Ukraine's visit made any difference or given some insights? Whatever decision is taken, it is important for the Christian Union to be united. That should be a central point for us. This means that we will look favourably at Ukraine's request, but at the same time we still have questions about which countries have been asked for it and which countries participate. I hope the Minister can clarify that. Mr. Chairman. Why do we come to this position? We think it is very important to show the Russians that a number of countries can indeed stand united against threats of violence and that the price should be increased when it comes to a possible escalation or invasion of Ukraine. We need clear language against Russia. I believe that we must also say clearly that Russia will pay for an invasion with severe sanctions that affect those in power personally, as has been shown a number of times in the debate. Let us make it clear that we do not accept Russian demands and that we support Ukraine's sovereignty in this respect. Mr President, I see an interruption. It's your move, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u136	Maybe you can finish first. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u137	Yes, Mr. Chairman. As indicated earlier, we need to keep the conversation going at the same time. That is why I welcome, for example, the Normandy Format, although it is at the advisory level. We must also continue to make it clear to Russia that NATO is not a threat in this respect. I am pleased to read in the Minister's letter that NATO is also willing to listen to any concerns of Russia and to engage in dialogue and so let it go that way. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister see any possibility of restoring the links that Russia has broken between NATO and itself, without responding to all sorts of unreasonable demands of Russia? Could the Netherlands play its own role in this? I've got two seconds. That is why I am asking what is going on with our previous request for foreign gas. Think of America, Israel, Cyprus and so on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u138	An interruption with a final question from Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ceder is not only the last speaker, but also the last coalition party to speak. He was my last hope. That is why my question is whether arms supplies are really so sensible? I see three reasons why it's not good. One. It's throwing oil on the fire. Two. You yourself want a lot of unity, I would say: look at Germany. And three. There are also rules, such as the criteria for arms exports. They say no weapons to conflict zones, no weapons to countries where the region is unstable. Doesn't the Christian Union respect those rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u140	Mr. Chairman. Those rules have, of course, been drawn up to serve the countries concerned, the EU, and also the countries where that could take place. If we look at the situation now, it could possibly lead to greater instability. If you have heard me correctly, you know that I said that we want to look favourably at Ukraine's request, but that for us the unity, one fist towards Russia, is crucial. This means that, in my view, I have also indicated in the debate on the Interruption with the VVD that I would like to know which countries that have received the request are prepared to deliver, whether it is Ukraine or countries on the EU borders, bordering Ukraine. You're talking about throwing oil on the fire, but I think it's the other way around. I believe that Russia is throwing oil on the fire and it is important that we, as NATO, show that we are able to stand united behind Ukraine. I have also stressed that diplomacy is still preferable for us, but at the same time you must also speak clearly. So in this geopolitical story and its complexity, we choose unanimity. We choose to stand behind Ukraine. This means that we can be sympathetic to this request, provided that the questions can be answered positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend for about 45 minutes, including dinner break. I would like to look at the members of the government as to whether that is an agreement, with a view to preparing their response. That's the case. I'm suspending the meeting until about 8:05. Enjoy your meal!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u142	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the situation in Ukraine and the first term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I should also like to thank Members very much for the comments they have made and the many themes they have touched on. As I see it, there has often been a great deal of consensus on major issues, such as the international legal order, the security of Europe, and a number of other matters. I found that very pleasant to notice, because it is sometimes less united. I would like to do it from the cabinet's side as follows. I shall make a few introductory remarks myself. After that, I will be the first to comment on political and diplomatic developments. Then I'm gonna talk about sanctions. The fourth block is about the arms request, the security of the post and the Dutch on the spot. The fifth block is a very richly arranged block "other," because there are quite a lot of questions that were asked that could not logically be taken into account in one of the other four parts. The Secretary of Defense will, of course, go into the technical side of the arms request, the more technical side of the cyber request and, of course, everything that affects developments in NATO and the military. Mr. Chairman. Let me start by repeating once again, and I very much agree with almost all the groups that have said that we are very concerned about what is going on at the borders of Ukraine. There is a very strong build-up of troops that goes far beyond normal. That is why there are not only great concerns in Ukraine, but also in the international community. Some speakers, such as Mr Brekelmans and others, have pointed out that this pattern is still going on. What I would like to say first of all at the beginning of this debate is that the best card we have and the commitment I would far prefer is that we should be able to reach it through dialogue in the various formats. This is, of course, through direct dialogue between the United States and Russia. This is obviously due to many bilateral contacts that certainly the larger countries, but also a number of other countries, have with Russia. That is always, rightly so, in very close consultation with Ukraine. And that's through the so-called Normandy Format. That is very important, because it brings Germany and France to the table, and with that, in my view, the European Union is de facto also at the table. That too is very important, especially because the European Union is right to be concerned and is right to look for a role in this situation. All in all, this is by far the best card we can play. At the same time, and we discussed this with each other in the AA, this is the time when you have to point out that if diplomacy does not succeed, it must have major consequences. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Mulder said that and others pointed out that. 'Cause this is really about a head case. It's about the integrity of another country. One of the lessons that history has taught us is that you have to work very carefully in front of it and that it is an extremely bad idea to be indulgent in it and to think that they are just minor violations of the integrity of a country, then accept it and think that that is the recipe with which you can stop the bleeding. History shows exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u144	I'd like the Minister to finish his introduction, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u145	We are not a NATO partner of Ukraine, but Ukraine, as far as I am concerned, is the case with all the countries of the world, that we are dealing with our own territory and that the integrity of the territory must be respected. Moreover, it is a country that is just inside or on the outskirts of Europe. Violence there has major repercussions for what is further to be found in Europe. That issue is firmly on the agenda. I shall now turn to the question of what exactly the Prime Minister and I discussed. I think that was a question from Mrs Ellemeet. That is already quite detailed in the letter, but of course I will go into that. It is therefore a question of combining, above all, dialogue and diplomacy, and making it absolutely clear that it has serious consequences, which would, without a doubt, go wrong. This is part of the dialogue and the clarification of what any dancing looks like. Also because Mr Baudet was already coming to the interrupting microphone, I would like to say this in an introductory manner. This brings me to part one: political and diplomatic developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u146	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u147	How does the Foreign Minister assess the call for a coup that Guy Verhofstadt and Hans van Baalen made a few years ago at Maidanplein?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u148	I'm not a historian. I'm not a pundi, as the Americans say. It's not my place to judge things from the past. I have to navigate the political situation as it is now before us and where I can learn lessons from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u149	Mr. Hoekstra has studied history, hasn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u150	Yes, but Mr Hoekstra has gone no further than a propedeuse, in addition to law school. So we have to be careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u151	Well, then, yes, I've moved on. However, I am very curious about this, because the Minister does take all kinds of things from the past and says that non-intervention is so important. Isn't the appearance of Hans van Baalen and Guy Verhofstadt on Maidan Square just an example of intervention? This involved calling for a coup d'état, undermining a regime, a government, in a country. "We will continue to come here until you have won your fight!" They were so excited about the war. Oh, my God, they wanted this destabilization. You must condemn this, if you consider the principle of non-intervention to be so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u152	The quotes that Baudet quotes do not automatically reflect the comments he made in his first question. I would like to separate those two points. In any case, I would always like to see something in context before commenting on it. In this case, I think it is important to say that it is not up to me to talk about something politicians have done in the past... Besides, one of the two died. I think you should be doing extra careful surgery. I do not think it is up to me to give that a review in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u153	So the Minister doesn't want to give reviews of past events? For example, does he not want to give an opinion on the ruling in 2008, in the Bucharest Declaration, that Ukraine would become a member of NATO? Doesn't he want to say anything about that? Does he say: yes, that's all right, because I don't know because I only have a propedeuse history? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u154	No. I am often going to take up this propedeuse history, especially in the dialogue with Mr Baudet. It is important, however, to distinguish between matters that do and do not affect the portfolio. I will come back to Baudet's point about NATO in a moment. I'll comment on that in a minute. However, I do not think that it is sensible to comment out of the loose wrists that parliamentarians would have said or did not say there, what they meant or did not mean and in what context that happened. Baudet, as a Member of Parliament, has that privilege. That's a privilege people have in talk shows. That's a privilege people have at universities. So I won't do that. Mr. Chairman. Now that Mr Baudet and I have solved this at the very beginning of the debate, I am in the political and diplomatic developments. Actually, I'd already started halfway there. I have already outlined that they are very worrying as far as I am concerned. I also just indicated how we're going to operate along two tracks. Mrs Piri's question, among others, is quite right, I think. She said there were a lot of meetings going on. She asked where the direction was and how we contribute to maintaining unity. The most important thing you can do is to have a great deal of contact with colleagues, try to coordinate matters in advance where possible, and literally try to contact from France to Canada and from Great Britain to the United States, Germany and a large number of other countries to see how we navigate it wisely. The Prime Minister and I have also said in recent days that the current government in Ukraine has almost a day's mission to receive all the visit. At the same time, the fact that this is happening is wise, because it also shows the world, the West, how seriously we take it. In that case, of course, it is important that this is done to a great extent by consensus and, as far as I am concerned, that is really going to end well. Whether I could direct those visits on the spot myself, I dare to doubt. Perhaps Mrs Piri will forgive me as well. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another meta-question from Mr Sjoerdsma. In doing so, he actually joined what he also brought forward during the AO. I was very much in agreement with that and I will repeat it for the sake of a short time and add something to it now. In the AO, Mr Sjoerdsma, I think the most explicit of all spokesmen, said that we should not actually go in Putin's paradigm, in the frame. There are a number of things in there that just don't add up. There is a criticism that NATO would have wanted to commit itself to Member States and actually more or less forced to become members. That's total bullshit. NATO is a defensive alliance and has never started an offensive war in the past. Two is the thought that Russia would be surrounded. I would say: look at the border and count the pieces or the kilometres border where NATO borders Russia. You'll see there's really no such thing. I talked to Mr Van Dijk last time about the north. Of course, you have to count that differently from the West, but it is still just wrong. The third point. It is crucial and many of the spokesmen have referred to it: who is the one who collects tanks, equipment and men at the border? That's not a kind of thing: two parties speak warlike language, so two are guilty. No! There is one country that is very steadily building troops, large numbers and far beyond normal. And in response to that, there is now a slow, step-by-step reaction from the West. But that's really different from the fact that there'd be two blames. Mr President, I would like to say much more in the direction of Mr Sjoerdsma, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u155	Before you proceed, first Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u156	I'm sure he's making all his interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u157	Well, I'm only at three, aren't I? So I still have...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u158	Well, this is gonna be... Leave that to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u159	Oh, Bergkamp's the boss. I hear the Foreign Minister say that NATO has never started an aggressive war. That is quite amazing, because NATO is one of the most aggressive military alliances in history. Even if you do not want to regard the war of aggression against Afghanistan and the war of aggression against Libya and the destabilisation of Syria as aggression, the non-legitimate war against Serbia in 1999 is an aggressive war of attack. Hello!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u160	It's getting complicated. I actually intended to leave the issues that Baudet brought forward here at the very end of his first term to be left out of discussion. I'm still gonna stick to that proposal, but to put NATO, the cornerstone of our security, away here, Baudet is just literally saying that as one of the most aggressive alliances in history... Mr President, there are hardly any words against that. That's such bullshit. This is an alliance which, moreover, Baudet has often expressed a positive opinion on in the past, which has contributed significantly to the stability and security of Europe. And that is important for all of us in the Netherlands. I really maintain that it is a defensive alliance aimed at defending the territory of its own Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u161	What was the defensive effect of the 1999 war against Serbia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u162	We're not gonna do every episode in history that Baudet calls here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u163	No. The microphone isn't on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u164	I'm very sorry, but I find really, also in the color bath of what Baudet just said in his first term... The reproach that he is now making to NATO, of which the Netherlands is part for decades and of which Dutch soldiers are part,... To put this kind of text out: I very, very disagree with it. I do not go into the invitation to comment on all kinds of episodes in history, as if we were some sort of debate club here. I insist, the cabinet insists, that NATO is a crucial building block in the security of Europe and the Netherlands, and at its core is a defensive alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u165	Your last question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u166	"In the core a defensive alliance" is a totally different statement than "NATO has never started an aggressive war, has never started an attack war." The war against Serbia in 1999 was an attack war. And then the new Secretary of State says here: "I'm not going here as some sort of debate club"... He says so himself! He says, "NATO has never started an attack war." But in 1999 NATO started an attack war against Serbia! What's he gonna say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u167	Because Mr Baudet is really derailing here. Because he himself knows what lay there were all in that war in Serbia and how that complexity there played with Russia. It was about an internal situation at the time. There's a lot more to be said about that. I'm not gonna do that freewheeling around here for a while. What matters here is that NATO is a defensive alliance, that NATO has not had to oblige any Member State to join the alliance, which has also repeatedly argued against Russia that we are aiming to defend its own territory and not to seek war, but at the same time that an attack on one of those Member States is an attack on all Member States. That is at the heart of the alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u168	You don't have any more options to ask questions, Mr. Baudet, but you'll have a second term later. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u169	Countries have volunteered to join NATO. However, NATO has simply expanded geographically to the east. You can just observe that. In 1990, statements were made as to whether or not it was wise to do so. Mr Bolkestein and Mr De Hoop Scheffer have also passed. De Hoop Scheffer said in an interview last week: that was not smart. It was not a good idea to offer NATO membership to Ukraine and Georgia in 2008. Does the Minister understand that consideration of Mr. De Hoop Scheffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u170	I'll be back on NATO in a few minutes. What is good for me, in my opinion, is a process which has been going on for about ten or fifteen years within the SP................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Let me say a few words about the specific statements on Ukraine in the past. I am not going to comment on everyone, and certainly not on former party chairmen in Parliament, but I am going to come back to Mr Van Dijk's question to me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u171	Mr. Chairman. The minister keeps running away from the question. That is fine with me, but then I do not think that my question counts as interrupting. It is a very clear question I am asking, but the Minister will not answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u172	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna answer it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u173	That is fine, but I would also like to ask Members to respect some of the issues raised by the Minister. Otherwise we go from theme to theme. I don't count your question as interrupting. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u174	Mr. Chairman. I had just arrived at the sketch that, as far as I am concerned, Mr Sjoerdsma is quite right when he says: be careful not to go into the wrong paradigm. Otherwise you will come to terms with this, and I say this with all the sympathy for Mr Van Dijk's political orientation... There are actually countries on both sides of the border that are contributing to a warlike situation. That's just not the case. There has been an illegal intervention in Crimea. There has been an illegal intervention in eastern Ukraine, and this situation is now in danger of repeating itself. Rebutting that paradigm and explaining that NATO is a defensive alliance, that, as Sjoerdsma said, we are quite rightly not looking for a new Yalta, but for things like those previously encrypted in the Helsinki agreements: I very much agree with that, and that must always be our commitment. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet asked about the visit of the Prime Minister and myself. A great deal has been mentioned in the letter, about, of course, expressing support and about concerns about the build-up of the force. I also indicated in my conversation that, given the broad expertise that the Netherlands has in the field of cyber and given the recent cyber attack there, we would be prepared to make a request, which is not yet there to look at it openly, preferably in the EU or in NATO context, but in any case we will look favourably at it. The technical side of this will soon be the responsibility of the Secretary of Defense. Furthermore, I have to say that it was really very impressive to be standing there at a wall where thousands and thousands of faces of often young men look at you. Those are all men who died in that war. These are especially young men, especially young and mostly men, who were also the victims of the aggression of a few years ago. With her permission, I refer to the letter for the rest. Perhaps it is good to mention one more thing, namely that the economic side of our cooperation has also been discussed extensively. It has once again been pointed out that pressure alone and the constant suggestion that an attack would be possible at the expense of stability in Ukraine, including economic stability. Companies will then invest less easily. It already does something with the stability of your currency. This issue has therefore also been discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u175	There is an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma, but perhaps Mrs Ellemeet can go first? After all, it's about her question. Then Mr Sjoerdsma. Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u176	We got the letter pretty late, so I may not have been able to read it exactly enough. My question was also about the following. A request was made two weeks ago. It's been spoken again. It is not clear to me whether there are any additions to the original request and whether the support for cyber security and cyber technology has been initially offered and has now been strengthened. I'd like to clarify that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u177	Yes. Anyway, I leave... that was a question from Mr Van Dijk. The Secretary of Defense and I were unable to respond at that time. We will always ensure that such a letter arrives as soon as possible. Only, I'm also from the school that should be in that letter what we just did. We all know the stories of CDA group chairman Schmelzer who wrote the minutes of the group meeting before the meeting. I find that a somewhat uncomfortable model. So we had to write that letter this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u178	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u179	No, I hadn't answered the question yet. I had only included Mr Van Dijk's question in the introduction. I see Mr Omtzigt walking forward. Maybe that tradition has lasted longer in the CDA, but as far as I know it doesn't exist anymore. I shall go back to Mrs Ellemeet's question. Firstly, the question of arms supplies. I shall come back to that in detail. That question has been asked before. We're investigating that. No additional requests were made or questions asked. Then it's cyber-related. With regard to cyber, we have said before, and I have said this in a telephone conversation earlier, that we see that there has been a cyber attack. We have expertise, so if there is a question, we will look at it openly. I have repeated this to my colleague, but there is no request yet. I will also say something about the training mission in a moment, but in general no requests have been added that are in the box of weapons or in the box of cyber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u180	I'll take a look at both gentlemen. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u181	Unless Mr Omtzigt has something to say about the CDA Group and the Minutes. I am, of course, prepared to let him go first, but otherwise I shall confine myself to the matter that is really before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u182	I do not have an active reminder of any Minutes, so I will put Mr Sjoerdsma first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u183	Then Mr Omtzig will perhaps ask for a factual account. But just a moment about the target. I thought it was an excellent letter. I must also say that that letter, even if it came a little later, came very soon after the visit. There was quite a lot in it. Only, it didn't really say what the Dutch goal is. The aim is to resolve this diplomatically. That's obvious. But I would like to attach a purpose to that, namely to change the agenda. It is now a question of protecting Ukraine's sovereignty. I would like to add something to that: no chemical weapons in Europe, no murder attacks in European capitals and a retreat of Russian occupying forces. I would like to ask this Minister whether he shares these objectives and whether he intends to introduce them at European level in order to try to change the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u184	I am not going to be completely complete in this debate, but if I were to listen to Mr Sjoerdsma and try to structure that, I would be on different horizons myself. You have a short-term horizon where you make maximum efforts to avoid escalation of the conflict. At the same time, you also want consequences to follow when things are off-tracking. That's clear. Mr Sjoerdsma and I fully agree on that. In the longer term, of course, you want to work towards peace and stability for several countries in the region. The Prime Minister and I have also been to Moldova. There the situation is different, but there too there is simply an eastern border where Russian soldiers are located within the borders of Moldova. There too there is a very high dependence on energy. My second wish would therefore be: how do you ensure that everyone in the region knows peace and security? As far as I am concerned, the third horizon is the following, but then you will also have to work with each other on dialogue and understanding with Russia: how do you ensure that this continent has more stability, more security and more peace, and how do you ensure that stability is anchored for a long time? Then things like the return of nuclear weapons come up again. Then you can also talk about the question of how to use Samsam, because that is important then, so that the threat decreases rather than increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u185	I can follow this in broad terms, also because, given the situation in Ukraine, it is now urgent to prevent the escalation of the situation, so that it does not lead to a military attack with all the terrible consequences. So that this is priority number one, two and three, I can really follow. At the same time, I would like to say to the Minister that the order he describes does not really exist. I say this mainly because it is the case in the European Union: there is unanimity as long as there is urgency, but if that urgency goes down, then it becomes a little less important. In order to go ahead and actually put this dialogue about what it's about, it doesn't happen. So I'd like to ask him anyway. Of course, I agree with his prioritization, but please take that long term with you already.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u186	No, very well understood. I agree with that. I think the art is to see where it can be done. At the same time, I simply want to be realistic about what our diplomacy and that of Europe can do in the short term in this conflict. It would really be worth something to me if we managed to avert a war there and managed to restore the stability of a few years ago. But I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that there is still a great deal of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u187	The Foreign Minister spoke of an impressive visit to the monument of the thousands of Ukrainians, especially young men, who have already died in the conflict. What exactly is the reason why people have not come to the place of the MH17 and, above all, that the Prime Minister has not been there yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u188	I had also thought of this for a later moment in the debate, but let me say something about it right now, because that affects the Netherlands so much and so much about what we think is important to each other that I would like to do so immediately. Of course, during the visit, MH17, the enormous consequences and the murder of 196 Dutch citizens were discussed very extensively at various times: at the embassy with the embassy staff some people were already there in the conversations with Zelenski and my counterpart and in all the other conversations we had there. We have also indicated that we would like to go to the site of the disaster. By the way, some of the next of kin would like to. At the same time, we must of course realize that you will then come to a place where it is far from safe. That certainly applies if next of kin would go there. I have looked, also for myself, to see if it was possible to go there, but that would have taken a lot of time and that would have required a great deal of security. Although that wish is very strong for the Prime Minister and for me, we did not think that, weighing everything up, was logical given the appeal that we should make to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u189	I hope you're gonna do it anyway. I'm just saying that. Of course, it is in disputed territory, but I really cannot imagine anyone refusing to let the Prime Minister of the Netherlands go there. And it's important to do that, because this is what you're actually saying: because it's dangerous, we'd rather not go. Right then, you should go there. Just then you have to show that it is very much at your heart and that you dare to go to those areas as well. I therefore invite the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to do so on a subsequent visit, if possible, because that is precisely what binds us to Ukraine.... to ensure that we not only keep that memory alive, but can also make a statement there together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u190	It is important to make a few things really very explicit. I have already met the Prime Minister in the previous cabinet, but also on this journey, as someone who is extremely involved in the course of things there. I got to know him as someone who won't hesitate. The same goes for me, by the way. If it were just about our own personal security, you'd have a whole different discussion. But you also have to consider your host. You have to take into account the appeal that you then make to the host. Mr Omtzigt's question was exactly one of my questions before we went: is that possible? I'd like that. This would also pay respect to those who still feel that terrible suffering in so many Dutch living rooms. Only, it wasn't possible right now. The second question we have asked also to the OSCE, because it is there of course: can Dutch families, relatives who need it and can they be able to visit the site of the disaster? We have put that very strongly. We will come back to that at some point, but unfortunately not in the very short term. That was also the OSCE's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u191	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u192	Mr. Chairman. I'm with the OSCE. Mr Van Dijk asked: what role does the OSCE play in the cabinet? There are 57 countries in it, including Russia. That is one of those forums of dialogue. It is also a forum which, as far as I am concerned, we should make absolutely use of. Furthermore, the OSCE plays an important role in the almost collapsed border in the most disputed area at the moment, so to speak. They are simply there with people and with cameras active to see if the cease-fire is more or less guaranteed. People do that there, of course, with danger for their own lives. That's the second thing people do there. Mr Dassen was quite right to ask: what are we doing to prevent escalation? Of course, that's exactly what you want. So you're gonna stay that way. I hope I was able to make that clear in his direction as well. That remains therefore the first commitment of the cabinet. Of course, you want to try to prevent war, violence or further escalation. Mr Van Dijk asked about the American proposals. He read about that in the NRC. I do not think it is up to me to comment on what would have come from the Americans or not. I would like to emphasise that I think it is very important for the Netherlands, Europe, NATO, the EU and the United States to work together. Of course, countries always have a slightly different position. At the same time, it's so important that you keep radiating that unit, that you keep the family together. So that's why we are very much in contact with the United States, with my Canadian colleague, of course with Germany, as always, with France and also with other countries. So that's what I'm gonna keep working for. Mr Dassen felt that the EU was not sufficiently effective. He asked me how I look at that. I have to agree with him that this is sometimes uncomfortable, not only on this dossier, but that the European Union is really a force in the economic sense, but is able to translate this into geopolitical power only very limited. That's what you see in this file. At the same time, steps are being taken and a great deal is being coordinated by Borrell. I have now understood from almost all those involved that the so-called Normandy format has indeed paid off. And that goes on. Although not the EU as an entity is at the table, the two heavyweights from the EU are, of course, in a very prominent place with France and Germany. I have literally said to my French colleague: at the moment when Germany and France are there, the Union is also de facto there. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the sanctions. Some things have been said about that. I would like to add a great deal to the previous debate, but I would like to raise a number of points, also in response to questions and reflections from the Chamber. During the previous debate, it was quite clear from the Chamber that it would have to be a solid package, because otherwise there would be no point. I would like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma and others that this is exactly what I am aiming for in Europe and with NATO partners. I think it is crucial to continue to make it clear at the front that, as far as the cabinet is concerned, all options are on the table. If you are already going to exclude things, you are creating a potential discussion between the different partners and there is also the risk that it might become a package that is hardly actually felt. Brekelmans, Sjoerdsma and Mrs Piri referred to this earlier. And the opposite must be the goal. I have said in the committee debate that it is important to repeat that, and that is why you must bear in mind that this has repercussions for yourself as a Europe. That is what I have said to several colleagues in Europe. There is a very good chance of that. And as far as I'm concerned, it's not a question of whether you should do it for that reason. No, then there is the question of how, as a Europe, you can mitigate these consequences, which would be disproportionate to one or two Member States. This is also where unity and solidarity are of great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u193	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agnes Mulder from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u194	I had asked about the accompanying policy, perhaps for sectors as well. After all, it is also possible that they are affected widely, that they are not just a few countries. Is the European Union already considering what the packages might be? It would be a bit of mustard after the meal if we were to threaten and it all had to be thought of when it was then unfortunately necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u195	That is part of the discussions, also within the cabinet. In the cabinet too, of course, we have said that it could have consequences and we have looked at what sectors this might potentially be for. Moreover, we are not there for the time being, because you must first agree on a sanction package. Step 2 is then, one would reflect on a possible sanction package, to see what that means and where you might feel the consequences. I would like to say it again in abundance: you do not want to go there at all and, while the sanctions are in place, you want to ensure through dialogue that you do not need those sanctions because the situation improves rather than deteriorates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u196	Mr De Roon, PVV, and then Mr Ephraim, Group-Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u197	The Minister is talking about disproportionate consequences of sanctions for certain countries in the EU and that this should be compensated. He's talking about disproportionate consequences for sectors in our country. But what is the government doing about disproportionate consequences for citizens in the Netherlands who are already in a tight spot and possibly due to the consequences of sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u198	I've just tried to outline that we're now discussing something where we've moved on from being like-dannen. At the very beginning of my previous period as Prime Minister, I learned that you should never answer questions like that at all. I've now been taken away on four, five like-dan questions. Of course, it's about thinking with each other. If Russia goes further in its aggression, if you then need a sanction package, if that would then lead to a counter-reaction with sanctions from the Russian side or with a boycott and if that would then fall down on the Netherlands, how do you deal with that? That is a question on the cabinet side. On the European side, I have indicated that I think it is very important that this should not be a reason for one Member State or another to think: do a more weak package. No, then how do you ensure that you can mitigate these consequences with each other, regardless of whether they strike down in Denmark, in France, in the Netherlands or anywhere else?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u199	Does the Minister agree with me that all these like-dan questions and that last question.... how does it go down in the Netherlands? It is not just a matter of the cabinet, but also of this Chamber, which is here as a parliament in the debate and will be in that debate? Can we discuss this in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u200	I haven't seen much of a member of the Chamber asking my permission to talk about anything. I think the Chamber itself decides what the Chamber wants to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u201	This is a little hide-and-seek. The Minister understands what I mean. Will we get the information on the sanctions you intend to take in advance, the consequences that you foresee for the Netherlands, and can we talk about this before you put the yes stamp on that sanction package? That's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u202	That's another discussion. That is a discussion that we may not have tried to resolve entirely to the satisfaction of Mr De Roon in the previous debate. I have indicated that I am very much in favour of transparency in general, but also on this particular point. Where this is possible, I would also like to state in the open of this debate which direction things are going. That gives the Chamber possibilities at the front. I understand very well what the Chamber said about it last time. Honestly, that wasn't tender. However, I cannot promise that we will discuss it with each other in advance at a time when things are going completely wrong and when there is a need for rapid agreement in Europe on a sanction package. I think that is a different matter from what Mr De Roon just asked. He asked if it was also part of the dialogue with the cabinet if it would have consequences for Dutch citizens. I would, of course, like to say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u203	Finally. So that turns out to be just after all. After a decision has already been made, we can discuss it again, but not in advance, before you put that yes stamp on it. That is exactly what I believe should be done, especially since these sanctions, as they have already used more in Europe, can become nuclear if it is not only hard in Russia, but also very hard in Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u204	I would like to avoid this metaphor of 'nuclear character' in this case. I interpret it so that Mr De Roon means 'big consequences'. It could be in theory. I just wanted to find the nuance. I wanted to say, on the contrary, that I am very open to transparency and dialogue with the Chamber, that in the previous debate, and indeed here again, the Chamber explicitly indicated the direction in which it is thinking. I am also very open to continuing this dialogue and understanding each other even better. At the same time, however, I cannot rule out the fact that with enormous pressure on time, a decision by Europe will be necessary and I will then have to answer to the Chamber afterwards, together with others from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u205	Yeah, finally. This means that at some point the Chamber is being put out of play by the enormous pressure of time in Europe. As far as I am concerned, that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u206	I have also argued exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u207	I understand very well that the Minister cannot put all the cards on the table, because I think the FSB is also watching. Let me come back to what he just said: we must first agree, in whatever constellation, Europe or EU, on the sanction package, and then we must see what happens when reprisals come. But of course you can't see it loose. You only know what sanctions you would like to impose if you also weigh, risk return, which reprisals are opposite, and then you're going to weigh up to an optimum. You cannot first establish the package of sanctions and only then start analysing what could cause retaling. Or am I wrong, I ask the Minister through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u208	In my view, there are two important points to make in the debate. The first is just risk return. Yeah, if you looked at risk return very flat and you did it purely from a financial and economic point of view, you shouldn't do anything. I have argued in favour of the opposite and said: even if it has consequences for Member States in the Union, I believe that we should accept these consequences, given the greater importance of what is going on here. Because that goes way beyond the wallet. Two. I agree with Mr Ephraim that it would be strange to start thinking at the very end about the retaling that could take place. At the same time, you don't know exactly what it looks like until we're a lot of stages ahead and the Russians decide to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u209	Mr Ephraim. No? The Minister continues his speech, but first there will be an interruption by Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u210	I also have a question about the sanction package. We are already talking about this in detail and we see that the countries in the European Union are divided. In the end, countries are willing to resort to different levels of sanctions, but it also depends on what Russia is doing. Maybe some countries will say: if there is a cyber attack, we must immediately close up violent SWIFT. And other countries will say: no, there must first be a large-scale invasion. My fear is that there will be no agreement on that sanction package in the European Union before Russia actually does anything. My question to the Minister is whether he expects an agreement to be reached on a sanction package and whether it should be communicated or not, because then you will inform the Russians as well. If so, what does the process look like in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u211	I very much agree with Mr Brekelmans, Mrs Piri, Mrs Mulder, Mr Sjoerdsma several times and others. They have underlined the enormous importance of this unity. Can I guarantee that in front of all scenarios? No, I wish. This is part of cooperation with others and of the situation in which everyone ultimately has a veto. I was positive, not surprised, by the degree of consensus and the tasking that we all did, all 27 Member States, towards Mr Borrell and towards the Commission in the RBZ Council of a week and a half ago, because of which there is a great deal of consensus. Are we going to get out automatically and is that as firm as Mr Brekelmans and myself and many others would like? I'm not sure, but I'm definitely gonna work for it. I think it is crucial that we actively involve the Americans and Canadians, because they have provocative and sensible views on the need to set the bar high rather than low.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u212	I'll take a look at Mr. Brekelmans. No? Mrs. Agnes Mulder, CDA, and then Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u213	The United Kingdom also plays a role in all of this. Maybe the Minister didn't mention it unconsciously, but they could be on the same page with us, not only in NATO but also now as neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u214	Absolutely. It certainly hasn't been a deliberate omission. I have also spoken to my British colleague in recent days. There is broad contact with the United Kingdom as well. Of course, in the Anglo-Saxon world they hang out with each other anyway. It would be a good thing if all these important allies in the Netherlands, the three Anglo-Saxon countries, our friends and friends in Europe, were to join forces, because unity is simply power here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u215	I'm a little worried about that sanction package when I hear the minister like that. In my view, we all agree that you need that sanction package and a firm sanction package as a deterrent. If I hear from the Minister that this sanction package is not going to be decided until the aggression has already taken place, I do not know what is being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u216	If I have listened carefully to a broad majority in the Chamber, and if that majority in the Chamber and I were to come to a sanction package together, we would be out of it even faster than in Europe, if I may put it that way. That's obvious. Member States weigh all that in their own way. It is difficult to say for sure, but my expectation is that in one and a half weeks' time the dialogue on sanctions and on what such a package will look like will be renewed. There may be a need for a new RBZ council, in which it will be re-established. One slowly but surely comes to contours. However, depending on what happens in the end, Member States will only want to make up their minds at the very last minute. I cannot rule out either, I would like to see Member States, at the end of the day, assessing how serious it is what is happening. I can only say to your Chamber that I will do everything I can to maintain that unity, that I am therefore in very close contact with many people in the Union and in NATO and that, as far as I am concerned, the bar should be high rather than low.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u217	Thank you and thank you for that at least as far as the Dutch Government is concerned. Do I understand that there will not be one possible sanction package in response to any aggression from Russia, but that there will be different levels of aggression and that there will be different possible sanctions packages? I would find that very undesirable, but I would like to hear the Minister's commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u218	I hope that I have been very clear to this Chamber, and at least in Europe, that there is no such thing as a graduation. There must be a strong package for every violation, whether you want to describe it as big or as small or whatever. That is the only way to ensure that what you are going to do is crystal clear at the front. I am afraid to predict how the process really is going in Europe. I am optimistic about the work of Borrell and the Commission by the whole group. Only everyone who reads the newspaper can see that there is a great deal of consensus on the one hand, but we have also seen that a single government leader thought it wise to travel to Moscow. So I can't guarantee what that final endgame looks like. That's why I applied the nuance. I hope Mrs Piri is convinced of how the cabinet and myself are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u219	I have a question on this following Mrs Piri's question. Is the commitment that the sanction package should be ready from Europe and should also have a deterrent effect? Is that the commitment of the consultation or is it the commitment that it should be ready at the time of aggression?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u220	Frankly, I think that in theory both options can work and that it depends on how the conflict develops and how dialogue develops in Europe. That sounds a little cryptic, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u221	I would have preferred another answer, because it is widely said here in the Chamber that a heavy and large sanction package can have a deterrent effect and thus contribute to de-escalation and diplomacy. The Minister is leaving it in the middle very much now. Speaking for my own group, it would be very desirable if this Minister's commitment were to do everything in his power to ensure that there is consensus, including within the European Union, on the use of a sanction package, to deter and not only as a response to aggression that has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u222	In itself, I think that's true. There is also a nuance to add, namely that if you put everything on the table in advance, you will give the other party the opportunity to potentially anticipate it. So the question is whether you should paint it in all the smells and colors or do it on the main lines. In itself, I agree entirely with Mrs Ellemeet and with the Chamber that it helps, especially if you could set the bar very high. At least you'll show a great deal of strength. I just wanted to be honest. The question was not what I would like most. The question was which way I think it could go out. I think there are several ways to Rome. I do not want to say at the front: the Netherlands is only home for a package at the front. Just, purely out of realism that it could be done in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u223	Thank you, Mr President, a little more. I can very well imagine that Russian aggression can take various forms, which are weighed differently by the parties involved in the sanction package. This can, of course, also take into account the impact on individual countries and how this is further regulated. What, according to the Minister, is the most sensible way of preventing aggression from being weighed differently, as well as its consequences? And how does the Minister think that parties that will cooperate with the sanction package can best be brought together and, above all, kept together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u224	Then you should actually go back to what a large number of Members of the Chamber have said about this. I keep getting Sjoerdsma's paradigm from the previous debate. The best way to agree is, I think, to discuss how essential this is. Many others have indicated that. This ultimately touches on the foundation of how countries, through damage and shame become wise, again in the twentieth century, interact with each other. This affects something as essential as the integrity of another country's territory. That debate must be held and we must outline what has happened in recent years and what is happening now with over 100,000 troops there at the border. Every day there are troops coming in and every day there are things that you don't know exactly who did it, but what you're very concerned about is that they happen. Think of the cyber attacks. Also think of the many bomb threats that take place every day. I heard that example when I was there. When one of my colleagues arrived, a call was made to the airport from where he was supposed to leave, saying there was a bomb threat. Those are all disruptive elements that are meant to destabilise. By having that conversation with each other about what's going on, how important it is to show that we don't accept it, not just for the country itself, but for all of us, the most important title is to end up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u225	Of course, I started with my question about accompanying policy. In order to bring other Member States across the line, I think it is important that you create a European flanking policy, so that you can say at the front: we are going to bet maximum on a package that has a deterrent effect. You shouldn't go back and see what gradations you're getting into, because then we're doing the wrong thing at the back. I hope that this will be supported at European level and that the Minister and the Cabinet will work to ensure that it does so, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u226	I very much agree with Mrs Mulder. I don't know how she would have finished her sentence if she'd talked through it, but I very much agreed with the core. I have said this literally in conversations with colleagues, but also in Brussels. I have literally said: it is not the question of whether, but it is the question of how to mitigate. How are you gonna mitigate any reaction? Of course, you need solidarity for that, because you do not want one Member State to be so exposed and to reap the bitter fruits of it and therefore think: let it go. No, you want to do it all together, and I really think it is up to Europe and the Commission to say: okay, but then we are going to share the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u227	As far as the sanction package is concerned, I appreciate the Minister's honesty. He indicates what the European force field looks like. But I am afraid that he says that they need at least two IABs, two European meetings, to move more towards each other. Then we are six weeks away and that means that there is still six weeks of European division. Then it is not the case that we have a demolition ball of sanctions ready and say: we are not telling exactly what it looks like, because we must leave Putin in the dark. I'd understand. But the Minister is actually saying that in the coming weeks as a European Union we are probably not getting together enough. This means that the deterrent part of our agenda, namely the combination of deterring and dialogue, does not exist in the next six weeks, while Putin is working massively on building troops. What does this mean for the overall strategy that the Minister thinks we should use?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u228	I'm really more optimistic. I just wanted to outline that in one and a half weeks or maybe two and a half weeks there will be an IAB again, that I suspect that this discussion will be repeated informally before that and that, if it were to go wrong there, it will of course be speeded up immediately. Imagine another scenario. You have the contours more or less finished and actually there is no actual change taking place, literally, on the ground. Then my guess is that in the RBZ the conversation is rejoicing again. This is what happens more often in European Councils, in European meetings: you just go back to where you left off last time. But that's in a scenario where nothing happens. I very much hope, I agree with Mr Brekelmans, that the Commission will be able to make use of the time between the previous and the next RBZ Council, including in the informal dialogue, in order to come a long way. But how exactly that will end, I just don't want to make a prediction about that. I do not find that helpful either, because our goal is: and very strong, and unity. I was in favour of the barrage of interruptions when asked by Mr Sjoerdsma whether I would like to argue in the next RBZ for the inclusion of corruption in the human rights sanctions regime. Yes, the Netherlands continues to explore options for an EU framework for corruption sanctions. I have joined an initiative of several Member States in the last IRS. I would also like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma and some of the other speakers that I really want to follow up with the United Kingdom and other countries on sanctions aimed specifically at individuals. There's already contact between the State Department and the Treasury Department. I would like to add two things to that. Firstly, my experience is that people who have something to hide also use stromens to a significant extent. So it's not so easy to actually hit five people by putting them on a penalty list. That's kind of a complicated game. I also know this from my premonition, apart from the fact that these abilities are often quite well hidden. So that really has some feet in the earth. But we are looking with Finance at how we can get a grip on it, including what Britain has done. I answered Mr Brekelmans' question on the sanction package. I have also said something, also in response to a question from Mrs Piri, about the different degrees and the different situations. I have also answered Mr Dassen's question as to whether the sanction package is ready. And I believe that I have also answered Mrs Ellemeet's question about the sanction package and whether it is a four-stage or a five-stage rocket. I think I've answered all those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u229	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Ellemeet. Isn't there still a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u230	Yes, about the Russian companies using letterbox companies in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u231	Apologies. That was part of the answer I was still guilty of. To be honest, I very much agree with that, of course, in the Ministry of Finance that the previous cabinet has really taken a different path with regard to the letterbox companies. It's easy for me to say that, because at most I've interfered indirectly. Firstly, this has been the merit of the two Secretary of State. But I do remember the intensive dialogue I had with the President of De Nederlandsche Bank on the question: how do you ensure the integrity of the entire financial system, but also, for example, a sector such as the trust sector, which plays an important role in this? This cabinet wants to build on what the previous cabinet has already done, and wants to take further steps. I would add: whether all this is done and done, and certainly in the way I know that GroenLinks would actually want it before it knows its apotheosis, that is a lot to ask. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the third block. It's about arms exports. Here too, it is important to paint everything properly. I have just said to Mrs Ellemeet that there has been no specific request in the field of cyber, that I have expressed goodwill in various discussions, but that we are not already assessing anything there. The Minister of Defence will soon be able to tell us more about this, including the technical side. The weapons are different, as I said last time in the AO. On that day, a specific request had been received. What I think is important, also towards Mr Van Dijk, because I understand that he is critical, towards the other groups and towards the cabinet too, is the following. Since I do not recognize the cabinet in that, I would really like to take away the idea that the West would be engaged in something far away as an arms race. If you see what the various Member States have done in response to that formidable force there at the border, when you see that we are still discussing in the Chamber whether and, if so, what we are going to do and what we are going to do very closely on the basis of all kinds of testing criteria, then I think we really need to take that with us before we put the cabinet and, by the way, all kinds of parliamentary groups in the corner of loremongers, of warriors. I really don't recognize that. I cannot speak on behalf of the parliamentary groups, but I really do not recognise that as a member of the cabinet. I do not recognize either, but I will repeat what Mr Van Dijk and I tried to clear up last time, that the cabinet would think very differently from the previous cabinet. The previous cabinet, I believe in February last year, said that, in this context, when the construction of troops was of a completely different order, it did not consider NATO's request to supply arms appropriate at that time. By the way, the Netherlands wasn't the only one in that. Next, Mr Knapen explained with great nuance in the last quarter of last year that there was no request at the time, that he understood in himself that NATO Member States and the Union would be supplying arms and that there was not some kind of formal ban for the Netherlands to do so either. Now we are still a few weeks further, I think about eight weeks since he made that statement but I don't know exactly at what time in Q4 that was, and we see that the situation has deteriorated much further. I think it is reasonable in that color bath to look at it openly, with all the nuances that I hear in the Chamber and which I try to apply myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u232	Yes, Mr. President, the Minister is wrong on three points. First of all, it is true that his predecessor has fallen down hard on him, who said, less than a month ago, in December, that arms to Ukraine are not a solution to the conflict. The Netherlands stands for a political solution to the conflict. That was a very good point of view, and you left it. Two. You want unanimity. Look at the Germans. The Germans share the same view. That's what you're up against. Three. There are arms exports criteria that say no weapons to conflict zones. I'd say talk to the Germans, because they'll understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u233	I am entirely in favour of a debate. I just indicated where the nuance is. If I agree with someone very often, including on this dossier, it is Mr Knapen. But it is precisely with that nuance that it has indeed been about eight weeks ago, in December, so the deadline I just mentioned is true that that context has changed even further. I very much endorse what Mr Knapen said, namely that he wants first and foremost a political solution. It's gonna stay that way. First of all, we want a political solution, we want a diplomatic solution, and we want to try to prevent the flames from falling in there. At the same time, as you see what is happening there, what has happened in the past, and what has now been built up of troops and what continues every day, whether they can have the opportunity to defend themselves. That question is put to the Americans, to the French and to the Canadians. That question is being asked to all of us. I think it is reasonable for you to say: we have test criteria, and we are going to look at that request on the basis of those test criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u234	Why don't you answer my question? The Germans say we're not doing it. Guys said eight weeks ago, we don't do it. We do not give weapons, because we do not think it contributes to a political solution and we have those arms export criteria. Consider what consequences it might have if the Minister thought it wise to make a spin and suddenly says he wants to deliver weapons to Ukraine. You will, of course, not only be politically but also militaryly messed up that conflict. Does the Minister at least acknowledge that risk? And does he want to be more specific about the possibilities that exist? They remain very vague so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u235	It is Van Dijk's right to throw it all back together, but I'm going to sort it out every time. It has just been clarified by me that I very much agree with Knapen, but that he has made his statements in a different context. Nevertheless, this cabinet remains of the opinion that a political, diplomatic solution is far superior to any other situation. That's point one. That is important to have re-established with each other. Two. The request is in. We are dealing with this as always on the basis of the test criteria. We will do that again. I would like to add the following. It is indeed a misunderstanding, perhaps with Mr Van Dijk, that it would be against the rules to supply arms to conflict zones. That's not true. Arms exports policy does not prohibit military exports to unstable regions in advance. That's point two. It is important to go over that again. Three. A large number of countries, including Germany, have decided to accept the request in part or in full. It seems to me only natural that the Netherlands should look into this, that we should do so with all due care and that Defence, Finance and ourselves have a role to play in this. I have indicated, I believe, in the letter of Parliament which was washed up somewhere this afternoon, that is different from the normal procedure, that we will give immediate clarification to the Chamber about what it would look like if we said 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u236	The minister turns all the words as if it seems that he agrees with the Germans and with Knapen. But really, Knaps wouldn't send guns to Ukraine. That is quite different from what this minister is saying. Germany doesn't want to send weapons to Ukraine. The Netherlands does. Just acknowledge that you disagree with Germany and that I agree with Germany on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u237	I can try to serve it in all kinds of ways, but I really have to refer to my previous answer. I have a vague suspicion that we will come across this misunderstanding again in another debate. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Piri rightly pointed out the following. Arms supplies are always sensitive. We're willing to look into it. It's about defensive weapons. She said, "How are we supposed to read that?" I tried to indicate that in the letter. There too, I have simply wanted to be transparent. There are weapons that are clearly defensive. There are also weapons that are clearly offensive. But of course there are a lot of weapons that can be used for both purposes. So you can't always rule out the use of an offensive weapon that gives you primary defense. But let's be honest. Are we now concerned about a large-scale attack by Ukraine on Russia? I don't believe it. It is only about a country that is under great, great pressure, where more than 100,000 soldiers are on the border from a country that has a formidable military force. That country is asking the Netherlands and other countries: can you help us with the basic right to defend ourselves? That is the question before us. I really think that a decent and responsible cabinet, given the current context, has just to look at that. Again, that must be done with care. That should be in dialogue with the Chamber. I say that decisively, but certainly not in the direction of Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u238	I'm afraid the Minister is confusing my question with someone else's. I did not ask this question. The question I did ask was as follows. Two weeks ago, the same minister indicated: if Ukraine makes a request, I am sympathetic to looking at arms supplies. The same night we heard that request was made. Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister say that it is now suddenly "sensitive." My question was: what changed in those two weeks, which means that we go from benevolence to "it's sensitive."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u239	I did not look into the short-term report, but I suspect that I indicated in the committee debate in other words that such a type of request is always sensitive. I would almost say: see Mr Van Dijk's intervention just now. At least it feels sensitive. That is right, because it is not about a small thing. Delivering weapons, especially when it comes to defensive weapons that could be used offensively, is sensitive and something I think we should look at openly. I'm sorry I confused the questions. The Prime Minister and I have spent two days together and, of course, we have discussed this in detail several times, including the Minister of Defence. And we really do agree on that. That is quite apart from the fact that I recognize Mrs Piri as being so skilful that the cabinet would not speak with one voice, we could come to the Chamber to explain it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u240	In any case, I am glad that in the last two weeks nothing has changed about that kindness. I still have a question about the deterrent. My group is looking at it this way: if the cabinet were to decide to supply defensive weapons to Ukraine, my group would be prepared to look into that. That is what we have said. But we are doing so as part of that deterrent. How does the cabinet view the timing? Does the cabinet respond to that request as part of that deterrent, or is it intended to be able to supply arms in defence at the time when the conflict has already burst?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u241	What we are trying to do, I hope Mrs Piri will be able to carry that out. I can't, but I can say that we're trying to do this at much more speed than the eight weeks that normally are. We try to do it much faster, also given the acuteness. Quite frankly, I think there are always two things in such a package at the same time. One is whether you can help in the short and longer term in the military sense. We all understand that, in a conflict, things that are directly useful to people who are already trained to use those things are of direct benefit. You also have things to do with, for example, a training mission. That'll do you some good, but not in a conflict in the short term. You just need a long time to do that. But there is a second reason to do it. You're sending a very strong signal with that. That is precisely why they say that even those things that we cannot use tomorrow have value, because that certainly strengthens our position in the longer term. I have tasted this in my conversations with my colleagues, but also in my conversation with my colleague from Ukraine. Perhaps this conflict will return in three months' time. Furthermore, it sends out a clear signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u242	I don't really have an answer to the question. Is it therefore in principle our intention to deliver something in advance, or to look at a possible delivery only when the conflict has burst?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u243	Excuse me. What I want to do and what the cabinet wants to do is to make a final decision as soon as possible, within a few weeks. I do not mean tomorrow, because there are also people who think that the cabinet will decide tomorrow. That will not be the case. Once we've made that decision, we'll share it with the Chamber. Then it will also be clear to what extent this applies in the short term. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the fourth block: the safety of the post, the travel advice and education of the Dutch. In particular, Mr Brekelmans and others have asked the question: what are we doing? What lessons do we learn? And how do we make sure our people are safe there? I would really like to stress once again here in the Chamber that the cabinet, everyone in the ministry and myself personally take the security of our own people, whom we have the best possible guarantee, very, very seriously. We do the same thing in dangerous places. That's why it was one of the first questions I asked when I entered the ministry. I've also spoken to most of the embassy staff at the Ministry. Last week, I contacted the ambassador personally. I also ask almost every day if there is any reason to change things. I'm doing all of that on the basis of the responsibility that I believe we have anyway. But of course we all know that, given what happened in Afghanistan, this is particularly sensitive, not only in the Netherlands. That's one. Two. The dilemma I've wanted to sketch before is that you really want to stand for the safety of your people. This is also emphasised by Ukraine. These people also realize that they do not always only operate in safe places. There are more embassies where it's dangerous. At the same time, you don't want to contribute unintentionally to some kind of domino. The question that Mr Brekelmans asked me was also about that and I really understood that question. It certainly seemed in the press as if the Americans would evacuate their entire embassy. Blinken assured us, even at the meeting with the other foreign ministers, that there really is no such thing. The American embassy is, in good Dutch, fully operational. But it has been decided that of those many dozens of people there, perhaps a hundred, I do not know the exact number by heart, a number of non-essential staff, I think that is an ugly term, but that is what it is called to repatriate. Then, of course, I also contacted the colleagues, and in the end the Netherlands decided to take the most forward-leaning position together with Germany, I think. At present, there are no countries throughout Europe that have evacuated their embassy, but two countries in Europe have said to their own staff: if you no longer feel safe here or if your family want to repatriate, then we want to give you the opportunity to do so. There can always come a time when we say: now we think it is too dangerous, you must leave now. That's the second one. The third is the travel advice. Last time I tried to say that I think it is very important that I am on top of that, that I stick to it and ask for it, but that I do not look at a map myself and decide what the travel advice should be. That's what experts are doing. Those colors too, as anyone who follows those tickets can see, by the day just a little bit different. A whole edge approximately corresponding to the border has gone from orange to red. That goes according to the procedure and exactly as I think it should go. On one last point, I found Mr Brekelmans' suggestion very helpful last time. He said: be aware of your information position and get in touch with other Dutch people who are there. You're damn right I didn't. That's what I learned myself from. We have strengthened texts on the website and the embassy is now also more active in talking to Dutch people on the spot. We now have 104 registered Dutch in Ukraine. There will be more Dutch, but 104 people have so far reported to the embassy. There is now also contact with this via apps. We want to scale that up even further. We want to see how many more Dutch people are left. To reach everyone will be impossible, but I really congratulate the embassy for taking a very big extra step. I thank Mr Brekelmans for his suggestion last time. That was a very good one. Mr President, that is what security is about. The last thing I wanted to say is to a question from Mrs Mulder. She asked for evacuation. That, too, is something that I have discussed in depth over the last few days, including myself with the ambassador and in the ministry over the last few weeks. Check, check, double check: What are you going to do? There are no guarantees if there is a real war there. But will you be able to use highways? Do you have a ride? How are you gonna do with family? All those kinds of questions, all of which are protocols for, of course you want to be on top of that. That's what the Ministry does, and that's what the embassy does very accurately, and that's what I've been trying to do myself. So they're really trying to get on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u244	An interruption by Mr Brekelmans VVD. I think you're at the end of your...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u245	Fourth block, and then I've got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u246	However, a question about non-essential embassy staff and family members. I know there is no country that has completely evacuated his embassy. I do not think that is a good thing either, because there is still a great deal of diplomatic work to be done. I am only concerned with the logic of what the Minister is describing here, namely that we say: we see a danger, we make a risk assessment and on that basis we determine whether or not it is safe to stay. But we also take with us the signal that that sends, because we do not want to contribute to further unrest. In fact, you say: we are prepared to accept more risk than the Americans, the British and the Australians, because we are afraid of the signal we are sending differently. I think that is a very complicated reasoning, and I would not really like it that way. I would just like to look objectively at how many people are at risk, and if that danger has reached a certain level, we will say: people who do not need to be there, we will get out of there as a precaution. Let's be certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u247	I've tried to outline the dilemma of actions you're taking. I also think that I should base myself primarily on the experts, including the experts on the ground, and on the ministry, people who have intelligence that I do not have. They advise me. That's how you come to judgment. What I do see... I think it's important to note that with each other. Look, I can imagine Mr. Brekelmans' and others' thoughts. By the way, it was especially Mr Brekelmans who said: "Joh, why don't we get everyone back right away, just the first time? Then you have no hassle and you bring the risk back to zero." I really get that. I understand the need to think: what if? I also have the ability to think: what if things go completely wrong? Then what's the safest thing? That's how you got everyone back. You have that feeling even more because of what we have been through in relation to Afghanistan. At the same time, I think you should add that the intelligence does not give any reason for the Americans to keep the embassy up, unlike Mr Brekelmans and I originally thought, and that the other European countries also say: we simply see no reason to evacuate. So I think you should be able to resist that feeling. Because, yes, then you may be 100 percent safe, but if you really want to do it all 100% safe, you shouldn't have embassies in this type of area and send people there at all. We say, of course, that we have a role to play there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u248	I'd like to straighten out that last part. I never thought America would have completely evacuated its embassy. I never said that the Netherlands should do that either. I have always said that it concerns family members and non-essential staff. Diplomats must of course remain there until the situation reaches a much higher level of risk. I have one more question for the Minister. He refers to Germany and France. I myself have spoken with several countries in recent days and much with German and French diplomats. You will notice that, apart from intelligence, there is simply no overall assessment of the extent to which we should assess that Russian threat. Americans and British think differently than French and Germans, also given the perception and history.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u249	And your question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u250	My question is whether the Netherlands itself makes an assessment of this, so whether we say automatically: if the Germans and the French do not, then we do not. I think we should be objective. What France and Germany are doing is also colored. So can we, as the Netherlands, take a decision on our own?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u251	Maybe I'll just ask you the question that's attached to it. Everyone, even the best informed country, has limited information. That's a given. The same applies to the Netherlands. I cannot explain here what information we are getting in what way. But of course there is close contact with all allies. And yes, in the end I also think that the Netherlands should take a stand on its own. But with something so precarious, which isn't exactly science, I think it makes sense for you to have a conversation with partners and ask: why do you do that? I think it makes sense for us to ask the Americans: what made you decide to do this? Of course, I am doing the same to those who say: we are certainly going to stay. Then I ask: but don't you think that's risky? That's the type of dialogue, but it's not an exact science. At the end of the day, you must therefore decide for yourself that is also the privilege and complexity of our job, of my job.............................................................................................................................................................................................. You then hope that you, always very wisely advised by the Ministry, will come to the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u252	I also had a question about informing Dutch people in Ukraine. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is actively committed to this and that we have been able to reach more people. I'm still hearing some of 100. I didn't see the exact number the other day, but perhaps the Minister knows that there are already over 300 Dutch companies in Ukraine. The number of Dutch people there, is potentially many times higher than the 100 we have been able to make contact with so far. What is the Minister going to do, in concrete terms, to reach a very large group in the coming weeks and to have direct contact with them, also given the earlier discussion we had about the deterrent at European level, which I was not very convinced of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u253	I can do a few things about that, but I'll say right away that I can only do a few things about it. I don't think most Dutch people are looking in Ukraine, but I would like to make the call again to anyone who somehow gets something from this debate: get rid of the travel advice, wonder what your own situation is asking for, wonder if you might be in a place that has gone from orange to red by now, follow the advice on the website and get in touch with the embassy, because that is potentially a very important source of information to decide what to do or not to do. That's the first thing. The second is that we, and when I say 'we', first of all, I mean the embassy, and we are making a great deal of effort to get in touch with the Dutch. That goes for example through the first 100 of whom we now know they are there, because of course they all have Dutch contacts again. We must also realise that there are Dutch people who have lived in Ukraine for decades and who will make their own assessment. They will not automatically report to the embassy. Because of the time that I have lived abroad, I know that there are Dutch people who are there every sintering class and, at that time, every Queen's Day, but that there are also Dutch people who think: I'm just here to do my own things; I like to meet the people from the country myself and those Dutch people, I do at home. So whether you will be able to make contact with all of them is really very much the question. But we're gonna go through with it. Again, it would be worth a sweet thing to me if everyone who has the opportunity to make Dutch people who are sitting there and who may not be aware of it does, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u254	An interruption by Mrs Van der Plas, BBB. I'd like the other microphone, Mrs. Van der Plas. Right? No! Sorry! Excuse me. I'm gonna have to leave this to our chamberlain, too. Roomkeeper! Now I'm gonna say "Roombide" again. Mrs. Van der Plas. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u255	Thank you so much for cleaning up. I understand it's very difficult to set up a reporting obligation. Of course, you can't take someone handcuffed to the embassy so he can report there. Is it possible, for example, to have people travelling to Ukraine on a plane on a form or something like that fill out their data and their travel plan, so that we know where to reach them? After they land, they drop it off at customs at the airport and then it comes through customs at the embassy. Always willing, of course. That seems to me to be a rather convenient system, but I do not know if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u256	I think it's a genuinely creative thought. I didn't think so. Last time I found Mr Brekelmans' idea a really good one. I'd like to take a look at that. As long as it is reasonable for an embassy to do so in this case, you would also want to involve an air carrier. Of course, that is a good idea. In the beginning, Mrs Van der Plas spoke of a duty to report. Moreover, that is a duty to report in a jurisdiction that is not ours. If we have learned one thing about our common people over the last year and a half, it is that mandatory is not always a recipe for which everyone comes in line all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u257	I agree. I had the thought to say something like that, but I thought "don't let me do that," but I'm glad the Minister finds that out. I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u258	I'm seriously gonna look at that suggestion. I see the pluses. There may be loves to it, too, but I want to take a serious look at it. I really think that's a good, creative thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u259	Thank you. My other question is this. The Minister has also just mentioned the plan-- what if?': What if things really get out of hand? What if that happens tonight while we are debating here? What if things get really out of hand over there? Is there a plan? Is that ready? Can we start evacuating people right away? What's the plan like? That doesn't have to be in detail, but I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u260	We're definitely looking at that scenario. But it is a good thing that Mrs van der Plas asks that, because I must make one important distinction. We all have the situation in Afghanistan in mind. That was an exceptional situation in many ways. This was a situation in which embassy personnel were seen by the Taliban, and in part still seen as occupying forces. That is really different from the way things normally go in this type of conflict situation. When you look at other places where a coup is taking place, it is not at all the case that the Dutch or other Western embassy staff always leave the country together. On the contrary, diplomacy is also talking to the one you disagree with or who you want to talk to about: why do you not respect democracy? The responsibility for Dutch people and the situation for Dutch people are also really different. I think it's important to say that. That is why I am so ported for what Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Brekelmans said. Of course, we all feel very responsible, first and foremost for the embassy staff. But people themselves also have an important responsibility to ensure security or insecurity in Ukraine. It is always very much the question in a war situation, even if it would happen here unexpectedly, what you can do in full width for Dutch people on the spot. It's not like the Netherlands will be flying in with a bunch of helicopters and everyone can repatriate. Even with the situation in Afghanistan, we have seen how incredibly complicated that is. And that was totally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u261	I would point out from the answer to that it is quite clear that if it does happen, because it can of course just happen, people can indeed be evacuated through the embassy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u262	No, we really need to distinguish between the people at the embassy and the Dutch who are on the spot. It is really different what we can do for the embassy staff in an acute crisis, for which we have a particular responsibility. That does not alter the fact that I also feel very involved with all the Dutch who are further in Ukraine. However, I would like to take away the picture that the Netherlands is the same as Germany, France and many other countries than is able to repatriate all their compatriots.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u263	Yes, I do. But I wonder if there will be contact points in Ukraine, for example. Are the people who are staying in Ukraine, apart from the embassy staff, for business, for family visits or because they may be temporarily resident, well informed? Of course, they can't all come to the embassy in Kiev, because it's a pretty big country. I'm not saying it's not like it's not happening. But I just want to know in front of my own image: how would it be if I were somewhere in eastern Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u264	I therefore hope, once again, that people will follow the news themselves. I hope that people will also see what the Dutch government thinks is wise, because that can be followed on the website. Again, we are going to look very seriously at all the suggestions I have heard again today. Only, I say again: for Dutch people who decide to stay in these circumstances, it is primarily their own responsibility to leave the country at the time when the flame is blowing. The situation is also really different from that in Afghanistan, because there is just a border on the west side that can be crossed. I was talking to the ambassador about that. He drives the car up and down between the Netherlands and Kiev. Of course, you don't know what that would be like in a war situation, but it's really different from what we've been through in Afghanistan. So I really hope that people realize that they have that own responsibility and that they also make sure themselves how, if they decide to stay now, they have to act in the event of an emergency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u265	In everything you hear, through the blocks of the minister, you see a lack of European strength; whether it is the dependence of the United States, still not having the sanction packages ready and the unclearness when that is ready or the supply of arms. Former Minister Knapen indicated that Europe is not really ready for current and future threats. I think we're seeing that again here. I try to see it as an opportunity in a way. Is the Minister prepared to look at the issues that are lacking in European cooperation and to make an inventory of the tasks that will best be addressed by which countries in future situations? This will ensure a clearer and faster response. That is my appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u266	I very much agree with the first part of the question. That's what really lends itself to the letter I'm still coming to the Chamber with. I can now say that one of the things I would like to contribute to in the coming years is to improve Europe's geopolitical clout. I would like to add that that is a wildly complicated journey. 27 Member States are involved. It is really not that, because we have in the coalition agreement that we want to get rid of QMV, we arrive at what Mr Dassen invites us to. But I do think it should try, because in this crisis, too, you can see how complicated it is and how you could really improve the impact. So I very much agree. Task specialization is, I think, another step further. That would mean that all kinds of countries would also say: I do not do this job anymore; I leave that to someone else. And we're really a long way from that. I'm not trying to magnify Mr. Dassen's grief, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u267	I think we are still away from a lot of things, and fortunately the Minister himself states that. He also indicates that he wants to play a role in that. But I am still curious to see what this leading role will entail in order to be able to take those steps. I have heard too many times today, including in the sanction package, that we are dependent on what is happening around us. But of course you can also try to take a leading position in that, to make sure that those steps are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u268	Absolutely. That's what I'm trying to do with the possibilities that the current system offers. You can see that as a European Union you would much more easily want to have a blueprint of what a sanction mechanism looks like, that you could decide much more quickly to impose sanctions, perhaps without all 27 agreeing in every respect. Then you'll get to that QMV discussion pretty quickly, which we got into the coalition agreement. I'm very portered to do that. I also think that this is very important for the future of Europe. I would just add that the fact that I have that ambition and the fact that, unfortunately, many in the Chamber have that ambition in themselves is not enough to convince all those Member States of it. That's gonna take a lot of calls in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u269	Of course, I am very pleased to hear this, but I would like to challenge the Minister a little further. Could he indicate to France and Germany that he would like to ensure that there is a blueprint to deal with it better in another situation and that he would like to take the lead in encouraging development? Could the Minister promise that he will be working on this in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u270	It was an example. To be honest, I would like to go even wider. I can also point out here that one of the things I spoke to Le Drian about, and also with Mrs Baerbock, by the way, I have reworded what one might call the geopolitical deficit of the European Union. I think we should get on with that. Here's what I'd like to do. It will also be very explicit in the piece I am sending to the Chamber, sometime for the next two or three weeks. This is about 'vision', which is sometimes a dangerous word, the perspective that the cabinet sees for itself, as I see it before me, as regards Dutch foreign policy in the coming years. Of course, this also applies to European policy to an important extent. I will take this question explicitly into account. Then we will undoubtedly be discussing it in a debate, because this is an issue that is no longer going to go away. This is, in my belief, going to dominate the foreign policy of the Netherlands and of the Union to a great extent in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u271	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Then we go to the theme "other." We are going to do this a little faster, because we also have the Minister of Defence who we want to speak to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u272	He's enjoying himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u273	I can see that, but still. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u274	I would like to build on the point made by Mr Dassen. There's no blueprint for sanctions now. That is, of course, something to work on in the long term. However, I think that the Minister takes his role here a little too modest. As a country, you can also take a firm position in Europe. Throughout the answer given by the Minister, I have heard a rather wait-and-see attitude. I also hear acceptance of the fact that these sanctions are going to take so long. I come to my question. Germany has made a preliminary commitment not to use Nord Stream 2 in an attack. I find that very wait-and-see. We've just been talking about the terrifying effect we want. That is also the Minister's commitment. Then why doesn't the minister take up a leading position and do not talk to Germany and tell them that the commitment of the Netherlands is at least that Nord Stream 2 cannot be put into service? He could ask Germany to stick together. That's a forerunner position and I don't belong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u275	I would hope that in the various dialogues we have had and the various exchanges of views we have had in writing, the Chamber has become convinced that if the Netherlands tries something, if I try something in that, it is to kick the ball forward, to break into it, to see how you can get all those more important and often larger allies of the Netherlands on the same line, regardless of the fact that waiting is not necessarily one of my core qualities. I feel it as an encouragement to continue with that. On the energy issue, I have already said that I can also blame myself for the fact that I think that we have done far too little with each other over the past ten years in terms of energy independence on our continent and on that country. You can see how much trouble you're playing in this file. We can't undo the past anymore, but we're gonna have to work on it. This calls for a discussion in the cabinet, which calls for a discussion in Europe, and it also calls for a discussion with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u276	I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that this energy dependence is undesirable. Now there is another direct reason to go extra quickly with the independence of geopolitical powers. Is the Minister prepared to take further steps in this respect now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u277	The cabinet is going to take major steps in the field of energy transition. If you look at the coalition agreement, it's primarily inspired by the major climate problems. Ten or fifteen years ago, the debate also focused on the issue of not being dependent on Russia for gas. I have said this in a television programme before, and I would like to repeat it here, that I think that too little has happened in Europe and in the Netherlands and that that is not good. We have not sufficiently realised that this problem would come back. I've been in the First Chamber for six years and four years in the Cabinet and I think I can charge myself. I leave it to others to look at themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u278	I'd like to ask the Minister to do the other block a little faster, so we can go to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u279	I used to run into people at the Interrupt Microphone every once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u280	Still.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u281	I've been trying to get that thing started for half an hour. I must disappoint you by the way: it is not such a thin block at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u282	Perhaps you could answer the questions a little bit more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u283	Absolutely. Mrs Ellemeet asked whether we are also considering the consequences of a possible humanitarian conflict. The answer is yes. Mr Ceder asked whether we would be committed to restoring the links between NATO and the Russian Federation. Absolutely. NATO is still ready to engage in dialogue with Russia, but it is ready to take all the points I mentioned in the debate. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dassen asked for a greater role in defining the European security structure for Europe. I just referred to that. Let me add that there is a need for more geopolitics in Europe, but to a great extent we must continue to do so together with NATO. That is what our other NATO partners want, by the way. The misunderstanding that sometimes exists in this Chamber is that the Americans would actually discourage it. The opposite is my perception. On the contrary, the Americans want us to be better able to defend this continent. Ms Mulder asked about the importance of holding on to coalitions and specifically referred to the Balticum. There too, unanimity is essential, especially when you see what is now happening in Belarus. There are many more troops, both at the east border and at the west border. I do not expect there to be a crossing of the border, but it is intended to further increase the pressure on NATO and the West, and perhaps also to divert attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u284	Very briefly. Mrs. Mulder, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u285	I was hoping it would end up in this block, or I would have asked the other minister for it. In the letter we received about the military support, I expected to read that further investment would be made in the Baltic Air Policing. Can the Minister go into that and then the other minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u286	I think the Secretary of Defense has studied for that. If not, I will come back to that in the second term. Mr Dassen asked about the importance of the Ukrainian economy. I think I have said something about this earlier in the case of interruption to one of the others. We have already had Mrs Teunissen's question on Nord Stream 2. As regards gas dependence, Mr Ceder again said that he would prefer to get the gas from the United States, Cyprus or Israel, it would be necessary. I think that if we end up in a major gas crisis, the whole world will look for gas on the world market. You will then see all kinds of movements and you will then have very limited the luxury of figuring out which country you want it from. I do agree with him that you have to look wide. I know that the most concerned colleagues in the cabinet, one in particular, are working hard and very wisely on this. I think I have answered Mrs Piri's question on counter-sanctions. I had already answered Mr Dassen's question on humanitarian aid to Mrs Ellemeet. I mentioned Mr Omtzigt's question on the MH17. On cyber, Minister Ollongren returns. Mr Van Dijk asked what happened...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u287	Answer Mr Van Dijk first and then I will come to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u288	Mr Van Dijk referred again to James Baker III's comments and previous statements. I've already done that in the AO, so it's a bit of a repetition of moves, but I think it's important to highlight here: to whom is it ultimately to become a member of NATO or not? This is primarily a matter for a country itself. In the past, no country has joined NATO against its will. Secondly, it is, of course, up to NATO to see whether a country is ready for it and whether it believes that the obligations of the alliance can be fulfilled. That's what I can say about it right now. That's not much more, by the way, than in the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u289	It is also a bit procedural what the Minister is doing now, but my question is to place it in the historical context. This is, of course, extremely relevant in the whole debate tonight. Does this minister then understand last week's interview with De Hoop Scheffer, who says: it was not smart what NATO did in 2008? In fact, George W. Bush first felt that Georgia and Ukraine should not be offered NATO membership, but after he had spoken to Cheney, it was suddenly: yes, we are going to offer it. Does the Minister understand the sensitivity of this from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u290	These things are always sensitive. What De Hoop Scheffer has very wisely indicated in that interview, and I very much agree that it is up to all kinds of people to reflect on how things should be. But from my perspective and from my position it is very wise to formulate very carefully. Any word you say on this could immediately give rise to the suggestion and is immediately seized as if the agreements we have made would no longer apply. I am dealing with history as it has happened and with the agreements that have been made earlier, the prospects that have been offered and the agreements that apply in the alliance. That is that it is primarily up to Ukraine itself and also to NATO Member States. If that moment comes into the future, we need to talk to these two parties about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u291	I can go a long way with that. It is formally up to Ukraine itself to want to join NATO and it is formally up to NATO to go into it or not. This remains political; it is not a college of law at the university. The question remains: does this minister today consider it desirable for Ukraine to become a member of NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u292	But I am going to put it very precisely every time, precisely because this is not just a legal discussion. This is a political discussion. To this end, others referred earlier in 2008 to this It's not the issue right now. It was said at the time: willing and able. Then we're not talking about today or tomorrow. Then that's an opportunity where you're gonna have to weigh everything back. First of all, if Ukraine does not become a member against its will, and secondly, as NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u293	The Hope Scheffer said exactly that in 2008: this is how we should have done it. But the Americans pressed for Ukraine and Georgia to become members of NATO. That wasn't convenient. Does the Minister recognize that De Hoop Scheffer has a point there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u294	There you can see the experience of De Hoop Scheffer. In that interview and in other interviews, he indicates that his space to reflect on the past is different from mine. It's that beautiful philosophical phrase: take the world as it is, not as it should be. You can work on tomorrow's day, but you can't work on yesterday's day anymore. That is what we must reconcile ourselves with in the submanesque.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u295	Mr Dassen van Volt and then Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u296	Let me return to the Minister's very quick answer to Mrs Ellemeet's question. She asked if the cabinet was considering humanitarian aid. That's what the answer was "yes." I'd like a little more detail on it anyway. In what way is it being considered? In what context? With which other organizations? Can the Minister give us a little more context?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u297	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's tempting to blame you for being so concise, but I've learned that I should never do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u298	It's actually me, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u299	I felt entitled to do it a little faster than before. Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Dassen asked about it and I think several more speakers. Perhaps Mr Kuzu and others too. Such a situation is not at issue at the moment. This has also been discussed at European level. You also want to prepare yourself, especially with the surrounding countries, for such challenges. We will do so through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. That will appeal to Mr Dassen. By the way, the question is whether we should supplement the humanitarian aid that the Netherlands is now giving. I don't think that's something to get ahead of right now. Mr President, I do not succeed in making Mr Dassen happy at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u300	Very briefly, it may not be directly relevant, but it is something that I feel the Minister does not really have a clear picture of what agreements have been made and what the steps are about. It is moved forward to the point where it might be necessary and then it is only at the table. That's kind of the feeling I'm getting, but maybe I'm misinterpreting it. If that is the case, I would ask the Minister if he can take a more active role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u301	No, this too is part of the dialogue. I am so honest to acknowledge that it is primarily about cyber, weapons and the sanction package. All these things are most prominent in the frontal lobe, but this subject is also addressed. This too has been said to the European Commission: think about it. This is not related to the responsibility that I feel, but which others in the cabinet will also feel. May I do this with Mr Dassen? I will also take this part of the dialogue again and I will always reconnect what the Netherlands is going to bring in, but also what is coming out more broadly in the RBZ. Then hopefully that'll give you more comfort. If not, Mr Dassen will want to resume the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u302	One final question about the presence of Russian Buk systems on the Russian side of the Russian-Ukrainian border. We all know what weapon system the MH17 was shot with at the time. I must say something, and that is in line with the international coalition of pilots and the European Cockpit Association. I'm a little afraid there haven't been enough precautionary measures. On the East-Ukrainian side of the border, although it is not flown, it is sensible, but very busy is flown on the other side of the border. That's what you see when you look at Flightradar. I'm really worried about that. I'm asking the Minister to see if there's anything we can do about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u303	I wanted to make sure of that too. At the same time, I understand the inconvenience. All kinds of things go wrong in life, but at least what you want to avoid is that you hit the stone again, which you've bumped into before. That's what I said during the AO. Unlike the 2014 disaster, there is a very different type of cooperation between IenW and the airline in particular. And the State Department is part of that, too. I talked about it this morning in the department: are we sure that...? Let me make sure of it again. If not necessary, we don't adapt anything. If necessary, we'll make some adjustments. I say to Mr Sjoerdsma that I will put the Chamber back on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u304	That's good, of course. The sooner, the better, I'd say. I would like to add one more thing. At that time, it was noted that not only Ukraine should have closed down its airspace, but also that the airspace on the west side of Russia should have been closed down. That is why it seems sensible to me to ask Russia from Europe to ensure that there is no more civil civil aviation in the areas where the Russian military have gathered and where this type of ground fire is present. I think that would be very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u305	On that second question, I should study for a while, because I can't quite see that. But what if, in the promised answer to the first question, I also provide this second question with an answer? I see Mr Sjoerdsma nodding now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u306	Mr De Roon may ask his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u307	The Secretary of Defense is shocked to be released in this debate; all the interruptions have been made in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u308	I understand the government is considering making ICT expertise for cyber defense available to Ukraine. Now I read on the NOS Teletext page a few days ago that the government would be willing to send ICT experts to Ukraine. I didn't read that in the words in your letter. So I want to know, first of all, is that right? And if that's true, where did those ICT experts come from? Is that Defense personnel, are they other government officials, or are you sending in civilian experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u309	If there is anything to be said about this, then the Minister of Defence is by far the best equipped to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u310	That was also one of the themes of the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u311	I assume that my question will be answered by the Secretary of Defense shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u312	Yes. All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u313	Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank Members for the great degree of consensus and support, much wider than the coalition parties alone, for all kinds of very sensitive issues. I think that is very important, especially in the case of something so big. I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij. I did not mention him in particular in this debate....................................................................................................................................................................................................... He referred to the terrifying and terrible events that have taken place before in and around Kiev. By the way, anyone who goes a little deeper into that period of history has once again been stunned. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u314	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment, after which the Minister of Defence will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u315	I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Members for their input and their questions. I want to structure my response along four lines. One. The security situation. Two. NATO. Three. The EU, where I also bring cyber. Four. The resilience of Ukraine and cooperation. Mr. Chairman. The security situation. It has been said many times today, but I would also like to underline it, because it is of course extremely worrying. It is high on our agenda and also high on the agenda of my colleagues in NATO and the EU, as well as in bilateral contacts. I would also like to emphasise that the most important weapon we have is our unity: the unity of allies, the unity of the EU. That is why this good cooperation and all the contacts we have over and over again are crucial. There's a lot of work going on right now. Since September last year, we have seen that unusual and very extensive troop-building in Ukraine. I say that explicitly: unusual. Mr. Brekelmans asked for that too. Based on these capabilities, a Russian military operation is possible. In fact, that could also happen with a really short response period. That is our assessment of the current situation. We must also remember that Russia also has a wide range of hybrid instruments. Those are instruments other than the structure we see. These are cyber, the means of influence and the economic resources they have. So it's even more than what we see in troop building. Unfortunately, the dialogue that has taken place so far has not yet led to a change in this attitude, which can only be described as aggressive. Now it is not the case that if the discussions do not produce results or come to an end, they automatically lead to military action. That's not law enforcement either. At the moment, our image - and that is also the international image - is that Russia has not yet taken a decision on it. So talking is incredibly important. That is the trail, as my colleague has just said, of diplomacy, of dialogue and of de-escalation. As I said, the defence ministers in the EU and in NATO have a lot of contact. We, too, are doing this with the aim of de-escalating. The Netherlands is committed to this and plays its part in it. I believe that we can play an important role in this. This is also reflected in the contacts I have had with all EU colleagues in the informal RBZ Council and in the bilateral contacts I already had with the German, French and British colleagues and with NATO's sg. Next week, I'm gonna keep doing that. I will continue to talk in Berlin with the German colleague and with NATO's sg in Brussels. The next week is the NATO ministerial meeting in Brussels. There will also be a debate in this Chamber next week. So there are many times when we can reflect on the latest developments. But the most important thing, of course, is that we all send the same message to Russia through that consultation. There is a possibility of de-escalating through consultation and dialogue. If that does not work and if Russia decides on an incursion from Ukraine, in any form whatsoever, Russia will pay the high price that has been mentioned here this afternoon and this evening, by Mrs Piri, Mr Dassen and many others. Then NATO. It is, of course, incredibly important to be prepared for scenarios in which these conversations yield nothing. It is for this reason that we have a two-track policy, namely dialogue and also deterrent and defence. NATO is primarily committed to this. NATO is prepared for all kinds of scenarios, where the alliance is also in favour of the alliance, but is now taking further steps, given the topicality, to see whether the security of the allies is sufficiently guaranteed. This means that NATO brings the existing, rapidly deployable reaction forces that we have to the full and that all all allies are asked to make available and fill the capabilities for the so-called Enhanced NATO Response Force. We are. That's what the Netherlands does. I have informed the Chamber of, for example, those two F-35 fighter planes that we are going to deploy, operational for the first time. I have informed the Chamber of the additional vessel deployed for the standing NATO fleet in northern Europe, the amphibious for transport. Would anyone then suggest... The debate this afternoon, of course, was about how that should be interpreted. Can you interpret that as an escalation? That is not, of course, the case. The defensive alliance that is NATO does its job, does its duty. So that is not something Russia has something to fear. However, it is a signal in times of rising tension that NATO looks, analyses and considers what is needed to protect the territory of NATO's fellow members. I think it is crucial that we, as NATO, make it clear that we are able to defend ourselves against aggressiveness and intimidation if they are directed against the alliance. So this is about deterrent and defense. This is, of course, also an explicit aim to ensure that Russia refrains from any form of aggression, including against Ukraine. In fact, this is precisely what Putin does not want, namely that NATO should strengthen itself. That's actually an undesirable effect, from Putin's perspective. This also helps these NATO actions as a form of deterrent against aggression against Ukraine. One was a number of specific questions about NATO, or related to NATO. Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group asked: could it be that Dutch soldiers are going to Ukraine? I would like to add a few words myself: whether or not it is in the NATO context. No Dutch soldiers are being deployed to defend Ukraine, because Ukraine is not a member of NATO. Article 5, the obligation to provide assistance, is therefore not triggered. Ukraine is a close partner of NATO. Our commitment is to assist Ukraine from NATO, from the EU, and also bilaterally, on which I will return shortly. Ukraine is a sovereign country and has the right to self-defense. I should like to come to the bilateral requests that lie before us, and to ask whether training aspects might be included. But it is not a matter of bringing Dutch units into Ukrainian territory under Article 5. Mr Brekelmans asked about specific options that NATO is looking at. I thought he mentioned Romania. Mr Sjoerdsma asked more generally what NATO is actually doing and what scenarios are being developed. Of course, different action options will be developed. It's not one option, but it's multiple options. I can't share with the Chamber exactly what they are right now. Perhaps it is a good thing to say, also because it has been emphasised by the sg of NATO, that NATO is preparing for the possibility that it is necessary to expand those ally units, should the situation so request. So at the moment we are still talking about filling up the capacities that were already foreseen, but of course we are also making scenarios where more is needed. If that is the case, the Netherlands will, of course, talk about it. We will therefore have to assess any requests. It is not yet that far, but it is important to know that NATO does. There was a specific question from Mrs Mulder on Baltic Air Police. This is indeed an existing link to which the Netherlands has also participated in the past with F-16's. I believe that was in 2017. It's just being filled on a rotational basis, I'll say. It's also being reinforced. At present it is foreseen that the United States and the Danes, among others, will contribute to this. The slots are filled. If there is still a need for this in the future, we will always consider it very seriously. At the moment, this is not the case with us as a specific request. That reinforcement is there, but it is currently being filled by other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u317	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mr. Brekelmans, VVD. That's his last question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u318	I can imagine that the Minister cannot say anything very specific about the extension of NATO missions in Romania, for example, because it is not yet definitive enough. My question is what attitude the Netherlands takes in that discussion. Is the Netherlands willing to make an additional contribution to this, if that is possible given the capacity of Defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u319	It is, of course, difficult to answer in this way in general, but it starts with the fact that NATO must first identify what might be needed in terms of strengthening. There must be a strategy behind that, there must be a plan behind that. Then you also have to look at what capacities there are: which country has the ability to deliver what? In any case, we are always open to requests from NATO. We would also like to always be as transparent as possible on what requests we indeed have and to which we can give a positive response. In this way, I would like to watch, think along and talk along as much as possible in the preliminary journey, so that a request can also be accepted. So the answer is yes, if that fits in with what we can actually deliver. I am very glad that we have been able to say every time on the requests made over the last few weeks: yes, we can do that, either by actual commitment, activation, or by readiness. That means that you don't know if it will be necessary, but that you will be able to deliver within the agreed deadline. That has so far gone very well because of the positive attitude towards meeting our obligations. Fortunately, it also works that there is sufficient consultation, so that you do not get into a situation that you cannot deliver what is asked for. So with a positive basic attitude, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u320	Thank you for the answer to my specific question on Baltic Air Police. I'd have taken it a little differently during the conversation today. So I'm just gonna check on that, if that's gonna change. I am very concerned about the further development of military forces, especially in Belarus and, in particular, the opposition which is frequently present in the Baltic States. It should not be the case that this raid by Russia is actually putting them on the sidelines. That is where my concerns lie, and that is why I think: how can we further strengthen the Baltic States? Should such a request still be made, does the Minister have a positive attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u321	Yes, I understand Mrs Mulder's concern about the Baltic states. I also heard this concern from colleagues from the Baltic States when we met in France a few weeks ago. That makes sense, because if you look at the history of the Baltic states, you can imagine anything. We are of course active in Lithuania with the enhanced Forward Presence. We are therefore well placed to deal with the situation on the ground. Again, the information I have on the Baltic Air Policing, I have just shared with the Chamber. If Mrs Mulder has any other information on this matter, I would be glad to hear it. But here's what I know now about how it went down. Once again, the entire Balticum has a lot of attention, also through our presence in Lithuania. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van der Staaij's more general question on NATO. He stresses that it is important to strengthen our armed forces. He also mentioned the 2% we agreed on in NATO. I agree with him. Given the deteriorating international security situation, I think it is very good that we increase defence expenditure in the Netherlands. I noticed that the EU and NATO could also count on a very positive approach, if I may put it that way. We're gonna invest a lot. We are talking about 10.7 billion in the coalition agreement in the coming period. There is a structural additional 3 billion per year and that means that we, as the Netherlands, are really making a big step. We therefore expect to reach the EU average by 2024. This is a major step and we have come to the same level as our main European allies. We think we're gonna be around 1.88. And this too is all explainable from the past. But the coalition parties have, of course, consciously taken this step. I see it as a major task that I have, together with the Secretary of State for Defence, to use the resources that exist and which are also desperately needed in the best possible way for the reinforcement, renewal and improvement of our armed forces. Then there is the EU and a number of issues about the EU. The EU has already done a number of things in the direction of Ukraine. For example, we have this European Peace Facility, the European Peace Facility, from which things can be financed. You're talking about military-medical capacity, logistical resources, cyber capacity, for example. That is a source of funding that had already been used. In other cases too, we had already sought cooperation with Ukraine. For example, Ukraine would like to modernise and reform its military education system. There's still a bit of a search for the best way to do that. This can be done, for example, from the fund. You could set up a training mission for that. I don't really care. I would say: let's just quickly reach a consensus on this so that it can start. These are, of course, not short-term issues, but they are considered important by Ukraine, and they are issues with which you can improve and strengthen cooperation. When it comes to cyber, I'm just linking it to the EU. For starters, these cyber attacks are just happening. We've seen it happen. It is, of course, unacceptable for a country to suffer such attacks. I also fear that, given the current tensions between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, these cyber attacks could become even more serious, and could result in real destabilisation or even an escalating impact. It is therefore very good and very logical that in the contacts we have with Ukraine in the Netherlands, too, there is talk of possibilities of assistance in this area. Moreover, when these cyber attacks took place, the EU offered to help directly. We have a so-called Cyber Rapid Response Team with a number of countries, of which the Netherlands is part. That was immediately offered by the High Representative to Ukraine. That too is with a defensive aim, in order to prevent such attacks. The Dutch participation in that project is also a good opportunity to make a concrete contribution to this. It is true that the offer is there, but Ukraine has not yet activated it, I will say. They know. They know about the EU and they know from the Netherlands that we are willing to provide that kind of expertise and we think that we could make a serious contribution. But once again, Ukraine must want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u322	I have a factual question. I find it difficult to understand why that request has not yet been made by Ukraine. The Minister is right to say that these attacks are already taking place. So there is already talk of destabilization. Can the Minister explain how she states that this question has not yet been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u323	Of course, I can't. In fact, I think it is the most important thing that we have made the offer and repeated it. Of course, I cannot speak for Ukraine. So, no, actually, I can't answer that question. I hope that the offer will be accepted or that it will not be necessary. That's conceivable, too. But at least the offer stays in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u324	I understand that this is an impossible question for the Minister, but she has not been given any explanation of Ukraine's decision not to use it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u325	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u326	Mr Dassen, last question. And then Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I actually thought I had two more questions. But then I welcome Mrs Ellemeet's question, because that surprises me too. I therefore assume that the 72 hours that normally stand to respond are no longer necessary because the offer is already done and stands. Then I'll come to my last question. It's like something else. Basically, that Cyber Rapid Response Team can detect, detect and mitigate cyber threats. But suppose there's going to be an invasion of Russia, is it possible that there's going to be a reactive signal from that team? Can such an invasion be stopped by shutting down certain equipment or by shutting down radar or communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u328	Look, this team and also the offer are about mitigating cyber attacks, exactly as Mr. Dassen says. I began my introduction by saying that the construction of troops at the border of Ukraine is a worrying and very unusual situation. But we know that Russia can also use other resources, including resources in the cyber domain. Mr Dassen's question actually goes on, because he asked: "What if there is a military aggressive act, so to speak, accompanied by cyber attacks? How exactly is this specific team deployed?" Of course, I cannot answer that. I can tell you what the cyber team can do now and what we have responded to, namely cyber attacks. If that happens in conjunction with a much larger military conflict, then you're actually talking about a different situation. I don't want to say that the offer doesn't stand with that, but what exactly is needed and what you could do is really different. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u329	I'll take a look at Mr. Dassen. Very briefly, because I still see questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u330	I was just wondering if there's any possibility that such a team could do that. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u331	If the question is about what is technically possible, then I must remain guilty of the answer to Mr Dassen. The situation that has arisen was the mitigation of cyber attacks. That was the offer we could make. In theory, of course, this can be done in any context. But again, this was not about the situation in which there is a large-scale military conflict, because these are such different circumstances that I would not be able to speculate on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u332	There is another interruption by Mr De Roon, PVV, for his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u333	If you're offering cyber expertise to Ukraine, I assume you've already thought about who it is. You are now also talking about "the team." May I conclude from that that you are willing to send Dutch soldiers from that team or other non-military who are on that Defence Team to Ukraine? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u334	No, I'm talking about "a team" because that's what it's called. It's called the Cyber Rapid Response Team. That's the team. This team consists of a number of countries, including the Netherlands and a number of other European countries. Especially in the cyber world, it is not necessarily necessary to be on the ground. I did not say that, but it is good that Mr De Roon is asking for it. Then I'll straighten that out. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final issue: Ukraine's resilience and our cooperation with Ukraine. I think it is important to show solidarity to Ukraine, which I have also tasted today in a large part of the Chamber. The reason for the fellow Members' visit and the reason to speak about this is that we think it is important to assist Ukraine at a difficult time. Of course, Ukraine also has the right to self-defense, as I have just said. I have just outlined how we do this in the NATO context. Even within NATO, the sg has said: we need to see how we can support Ukraine. Ukraine is a partner of NATO. The fact that we say that to each other and actually do so, in my opinion, contributes to the effect that we want to achieve, namely deterrents. This will contribute to destabilization. And that is meant to prevent a military conflict and bloodshed in the end. I would like to repeat it to Mr Van der Staaij. In other words, we must support Ukraine where we can. The cabinet informed the Chamber in the committee debate, where Mr Hoekstra and I were both, that Ukraine had indeed made a request for military goods. We've taken that request into consideration. Of course, we do that very carefully. Mr Hoekstra has just said a few words about this. It must, of course, be part of the larger picture; that is important to emphasise here. It is not the case that Ukraine's request for military goods in itself is already making a huge contribution. What I think is important is that Ukraine has asked for this and that we are just looking very seriously and carefully at the possibilities. I cannot say much about this at the moment. It is also too early to draw conclusions. The process that needs to be completed is just, I think, well described. I should like to add just one thing to what Mr Hoekstra has just said. It also connects a little bit with what De Roon just said. A little depending on the type of material it might be that people should also know how to handle it. In other words, it also requires a form of training. But that too is a consideration that we will make and which we will, of course, share with the Chamber at the end of that process if it leads to a positive reaction. Finally, Mr President. No, sorry, it's not quite finished yet. I have a few more questions back there. We're doing everything we can with Ukraine. Military cooperation also comes in a context in which we have already given support in the past, for example for mine-mining, for safe ammunition storage. I also mention medical aid to injured military personnel and the important contribution we have made and continue to make. I mentioned education. There are also many forms of cooperation between institutions. The Military Rehabilitation Centre in Doorn, which is doing a very good job, may I mention it specifically. I should like to go into a few more details on the basis of a number of questions. What exactly can we do? Mrs Mulder, for example, asked. Others, too. I told you, it's a careful process. We need to test it. The question with us, with the Defense Department, is of course: what exactly is it, do we have it, could we deliver it? In other words: is it something we can miss for a while? 'Cause, yeah, you have to take that into account, too. Of course, the readiness, the employability, of the Dutch armed forces also plays a role in this. So yes, that's taken into account. And the inventory is running. Is there anything else we can do? That was, I believe, Mr Sjoerdsma's question. Mrs van der Plas mentioned a number of specific things. She was talking about training missions and armament and she was also talking about frigates: could we do that? I would like to say this: let us not all look through the straw of that request at the conflict that may arise between Ukraine and Russia. It's a lot more than that. Everything I have just said, for example, about how we act in NATO, and everything we can show as Europe by radiating unity: that is really what this is really about. Once again, out of solidarity, because we are really very worried and because we think that a country simply has the right to defend itself, we are going to look at this very seriously. But in the context of expectations management I thought: let me give this profit warning. Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to finish with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u335	Thank you. There are still a few interruptions. First of all, Mrs Piri of the PvdA. Then Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Agnes Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u336	A short, factual question about Ukraine's bilateral request to the Netherlands. I understand that the content cannot be shared, but can the Minister at least say whether that is a specific request to the Netherlands? Or has Ukraine sent several NATO countries a list of requests to supply that stuff?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u337	To begin with: indeed, I cannot share that of course. Because the moment Ukraine makes certain requests to the Netherlands, it gives insight into its own position and with that... Well, I don't think it would be appreciated if that kind of requests were to be on the streets. And I understand that very well. So I can't do that. Then the second thing I want to say. Yes, the request we have received is a request from Ukraine to the Netherlands. It is therefore a bilateral request. In the past a request has been made to NATO. Mr Hoekstra has already said that. That's not there right now. What exactly does Ukraine ask other countries? I cannot answer that question either, because I would have to ask other countries. I would perhaps ask Mrs Piri to understand that if there were some coordination there would be. But it has been Ukraine's choice to do it this way. That's why it's the way it is and how we treat it. As far as possible, we do have contact with allies in other countries. But that is a little limited by the way in which the request was received.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u338	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u339	Yeah, finally. Alignment would certainly be useful. Look, we do know from a number of countries what they've delivered. For example, the United Kingdom has supplied anti-tank weapons. I assume at the request of Ukraine. Then about the allies you're in contact with. Do you know whether the request that Ukraine has made to them is about the same stuff? Or is it really a very specific request to the Netherlands that has not been made to other NATO alliance members?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u340	I can't tell you that. It may be unintentional by Mrs Piri, but with that I could give an insight into what has been asked of the Netherlands. I'm afraid I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u341	I would like to address another threat from Russia. That is the threat we saw the other day off the coast of Ireland in the Irish economic zone, where Russian ships would start practicing and doing exactly above submarine data cables. In the end, they were driven out by Irish fishing vessels. That worked out well. But we can also see that off the Dutch coast. Then we also see the Russian ships turning off their transponders. So I would actually like to ask the Minister of Defence whether we are also looking in NATO at not only how we follow these ships so that we know what they are doing, but also how we can put a little more deterrent against them in order to prevent them from destroying this kind of important data cables.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u342	Mr Sjoerdsma raised an important point. It is not true that because we are now looking mainly at the construction of troops at the border of Ukraine, we are no longer looking at what is happening elsewhere, around Europe and elsewhere in the world. We have talked about Mali in this Chamber, for example. So we need to keep a close eye on everything. And not just that. Of course, we must always consider whether there are any action options. So I would like to give Mr Sjoerdsma the answer that, without going into exactly what, this kind of thing is indeed being closely monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u343	The Minister, of course, consciously goes a little "high" with the answer to the question about weapons. In itself, I can understand that. But what we could deliver, was that a little light or was that terriblely disappointing in the inventory?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u344	That's a charming way to ask the question. I was just trying to say in my reply that I cannot say exactly what Ukraine is asking for. At the same time, I wanted to temper the expectations a little, because of course this is not about a massive investment in the Ukrainian army. I think the Chamber has a right to know. That wouldn't be realistic. That would not be realistic from the one who asked the question, nor realistic from the perspective of what we can deliver, given where we stand with Defence and with the armed forces. I would point out the investments we are going to make. We don't do that for nothing. I would point out that such requests are not so commonplace. We do not have the habit of supplying weapons to other countries. Actually, we don't do that much at all. I think Mrs Mulder understands very well what I mean by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u345	I would like to thank the Secretary of Defense for her reply. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we start immediately with the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group. He is also the applicant for this debate. I would like to ask colleagues to be a little reluctant about the number of motions, especially if a good commitment has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u346	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to send Dutch soldiers to Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u347	Let me get a note. I understand that the Minister has already promised this, but I submit it in view of the importance of the matter. If the motion is adopted, it will be well established immediately. Last, second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to evacuate Dutch citizens in good time so that their safety is not compromised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u348	Thank you, Mr. Ephraim. Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that every effort should be made to mitigate the military escalation between Russia and Ukraine;]] [[Considering the importance of a collective security order in Europe based on the Helsinki and Paris Agreements, which are respected by all the countries concerned;]] [[Whereas such an order can be achieved, inter alia, through a permanent dialogue within the OSCE in which both Europe and Russia participate;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to strengthen the OSCE, with the commitment of a more effective collective security order in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u350	Second motion, brief and powerful. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that an arms race should be avoided and that dialogue and diplomacy should take precedence over military escalation;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from supplying arms to Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Eppink and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u351	I have a question about the first motion. In the previous committee debate, I made exactly this proposal to the Minister. So I would like my name under the motion. I also believe that the Minister has promised to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u352	Then she's redundant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u353	Perhaps she is superfluous, but I would have thought it appropriate if I had been involved, because I had made this point in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u354	Yes. That didn't happen on purpose. We know where to find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u355	I understand it's already been promised. Maybe that's how the Minister reacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u356	I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u357	Okay. Then we go to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u358	Mr. Chairman. It is incredibly important that we hit Putin where it hurts most, on his Achilles heel. That's his corruption money. Those are the bank balances that are friendly oligarchs stables to keep it safe from the Russian population, here on the European continent and in Great Britain. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current EU-Magnitsky law does not yet provide for the imposition of personalised sanctions in the case of large-scale corruption;]] [[Whereas this means that oligarchs and kleptocrates emerge from the dance and are not dealt with for their corrupt actions;]] [[whereas the best way to deter Russia is to hit Putin and Putin's power clique as hard as possible financially;]] [[calls on the government in the European Union to provide support for the addition of large-scale corruption as a violation allowing EU-Magnitsky legislation to be activated;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the steps taken within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuzu, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Teunissen, Mr Ceder, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u359	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to both ministers for the answers and for the openness they have given as much as possible. What gave me concern was the answers to the sanction package. It seems to be a long time before the European sanction package arrives. I would urge the Minister to emphasise the urgency of this in the European Union. The same applies to the supply of weapons. There was talk in a few weeks. It is precisely if we want a deterrent effect, both in terms of sanctions and in terms of the supply of defensive weapons, that it is important that we proceed with urgency. I welcomed the Minister's commitment to continue his efforts to inform the Dutch in Ukraine as much as possible. I would like to ask him to send a brief letter for the next RBZ on how far that has worked and how far he has managed to reach more Dutch people. I was also pleased with the Minister's undertaking that the Netherlands will continue to make an independent assessment of our non-essential embassy staff and the family members. I have heard clearly what the Minister said about the supply of weapons. I do not want there to be any ambiguity about the political support that exists in this Chamber. I want it to be clear that there is support for this. That's why I'm filing this motion. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Ukraine is facing a major Russian military threat;]] [[Whereas various NATO alliance members support Ukraine with weapons for deterring aggression and possible self-defense;]] [[noting that Ukraine has also made a request to the Netherlands to supply arms and other equipment in order to defend itself;]] [[considers that Ukrainian military personnel should be able to serve the weapons to be delivered themselves, with the exception of training;]] [[calls on the Government to treat this request favourably, provided that the Netherlands has sufficient stock of the arms and other equipment requested, taking into account the necessary employability of the Dutch armed forces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Brekelmans and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u361	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u362	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Ministers for their reply. There are no major differences between the efforts of the cabinet and my group in this area. We share the analysis of the threat and we also share the willingness to work alongside diplomacy on all possible aspects of deterrents. However, I am genuinely concerned about the speed and consensus within the EU in order to bring about serious deterrents. Without any deterrent, I consider the chances of diplomatic success a lot less. The danger is that, in the event of a major military attack by Russia, that consensus can still be found, but at the moment when it remains bullying, threatening, green males and hybrid threats, I think we are either paralyzed or totally divided. Despite the fact that a number of parties here in the Chamber do not want to support support Ukraine and the deterrent and call for a diplomatic solution, I would also like to say that a diplomatic solution that results in us being divided back into spheres of influence in Europe is equally catastrophic. My appeal to the cabinet: keep your back straight! Ivan Krastev, a Bulgarian political analyst, wrote a beautiful piece in the New York Times today. He concluded with a Russian saying: if you invite a bear to dance, you are not the one who decides when the dance is over. That's the bear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u363	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for answering the questions. I have just indicated that it is also worrying in this situation to see that the EU's strength of action and unity is not always the same. I am therefore particularly pleased with the Foreign Minister's undertaking to come back in a letter to that effect. After the small interruption debate with the Secretary of Defense, I wondered what the cyber response unit has in the PESCO. I ask her if she can make a commitment to go into this more fully, including in the situation I have just outlined, so that we as a Chamber can get a better idea of these possibilities and we can also better assess them. I also hope that the situation will certainly not get out of hand and that we will all continue along the path of de-escalation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u365	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Defence began her speech with the statement: the most important thing in this situation is unity within the EU and within NATO. As far as the EU is concerned, the PVV certainly does not think so, but also within NATO, we do not think that unity is the most important thing. The most important thing is that our government keeps our country out of a war, which does not concern us. Above all, this must remain so and that our government does nothing that can be interpreted in such a war as supporting one of the parties. Specifically, this means for the PVV: no NATO membership for Ukraine, no money from the Dutch taxpayer to corrupt Ukraine and no supply of military equipment and Dutch military support to Ukraine. The severe sanctions that are being threatened will have a major impact on Dutch citizens. They drive Russia into the arms of China. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is considering imposing severe sanctions against Russia;]] [[Whereas sanctions can have a significant negative impact on our own security, energy security and economy;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a possible sanction package to the House of Representatives before agreement in Brussels and to make a reservation of parliamentary approval in the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u367	Can Mr De Roon imagine that, in a time of crisis, we saw this when Kabul was falling apart and everything was very diffuse and unclear, and that we should give some discretion to the ruler and then ask for forgiveness afterwards? Especially when we call rulers to the Chamber in times of crisis, it is very painful to love them for their work, for their crisis management. Afterwards we can always sprinkle with motions of distrust, mourning and disapproval, as if they were pepper nuts on 5 December. But do you agree with me that, in such a crisis situation, we should deal with it a little more practically?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u368	What is painful for a ruler interests me, with all due respect, not a beet. They simply have to do what they have to do, and that means giving the Chamber the opportunity to speak in advance. We are talking about this on behalf of the Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u369	I think what they have to do is manage a crisis by then. That's point one, isn't it? If the house is on fire, you're not gonna keep the fire department off the job and ask if the fire regulations could've been better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u370	That's all metaphor. The point is that, as a Chamber, we must have influence on the sanction package that is being imposed and say whether we agree with it as a country and whether we want to bear all the consequences that may be attached to it. It should not be the case that the government decides on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u371	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u372	I see someone else has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u373	I understand my colleague's remark and heart cry. You could have written down what you wouldn't have wanted. Then that is clear, and everyone in this house will know that that is your position. The rest of the groups have all said: do a very heavy package. Then everything is on the table and you don't have to make that trade-off in advance again as an intermediate step. Have you considered that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u374	I think it would be very stupid for the rest of the Chamber to say: do a heavy package and we will see what it will be and what the consequences will be. I'd think that was really stupid. I have a second motion. It's very short. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that Ukraine should remain a neutral state;]] [[calls on the Government to declare that Ukraine's accession to NATO is not and will not be discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u375	Mr De Roon knows how to pack it in process motions and call it neutrality, but reality comes out of this, or, as Mr De Roon himself would say, the monkey comes out of the sleeve here. Mr De Roon, with the PVV, completely shamelessly supports Russia. He's trying to undermine sanctions, stop them, slow them down. He is trying to portray Ukraine as a state that is not allowed to decide its own future. It must maintain neutrality, must not look to the West, must not look to the European Union. Mr De Roon and also his party leader say they defend sovereignty, but in reality he completely undermines it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u376	Well, chairman, that's bullshit. The evil way Mr Sjoerdsma thinks about the PVV is now taking a walk with him. He's starting to talk all kinds of crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u377	Thank you. We're gonna wrap this up. I didn't hear a question, it was more of a statement. Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u378	Yes, Mr. De Roon does not deny it. Let us also note that. It is not that I am very surprised, because his party leader has a very proud Dutch...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u379	I would like you to put a question to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u380	That question's definitely coming. I'd like to focus on what the PVV is doing here. Mr Wilders is not here to show his friendship pin pride, but Mr De Roon also shows it indirectly pride. In fact, he is Putin's spokesman and is trying to make it impossible for Mr Hoekstra to act decisively in Europe. He wants to slow things down. I ask him: why does he do that when he says he really wants to stand up for Ukraine's sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u381	At first I said that all kinds of nonsense had been uttered by the D66 spokesperson. I'll stick with that. The PVV only does this in the interests of the Netherlands and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u382	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u383	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers very much for their reply. I have two final comments and one question. With regard to arms supplies, my party maintains the view that we do not agree to supply arms because it could lead to an arms race. We want to avoid that at all times. That is why we are focusing on disarmament policy. That is why I have wholeheartedly supported Mr Van Dijk's motion. In addition, it is good that the cabinet's commitment is to ensure that sanctions have a deterrent effect. I really hope that it will work in the EU, because that is what my party stands for: putting tough sanctions in place. Finally, I have a question. I am glad that the Foreign Minister sees the urgency of getting off the gas quickly. I was wondering if he could explain in a letter whether there would still be consequences for the current government policy, which will be used on gas until at least 2030. So the question for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u384	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. We're going to see Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the ministers for the answer. We are dealing with very serious matters, but I can't help saying that the Minister's alarm clock triggered me. I can't wait to see what that was. It was exactly 10:00 p.m., so I thought he should get out of the cafe or the kids should stop with Netflix. Unless he goes to bed. That's what I thought for a while. You don't have to share it with us, but feel free to do it. We're going into serious business. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch possessions of the Russian elite around Putin are not sufficiently visible;]] [[whereas the Green Amsterdammer concluded after research that the Russian elite and criminals frequently use Dutch banks and our financial system;]] [[Calls on the Government to map in detail the possessions of the Russian elite around Putin in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the extent of these assets within the shortest possible time limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses unconditional support for Ukraine's sovereignty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-75]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-V-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u386	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Ministers for their clear answer. I thought it was a pleasant debate, even if it was about a heavy and moving subject. This applies to us, but first of all, of course, to all those people who live in Ukraine and are very worried about the situation. I think the most important thing is that we cannot be naive in any way about how to force Putin into de-escalation. My group is very much in favour of diplomacy. We have good hopes that it will succeed, but we need to be realistic about how we can force Putin into that diplomatic solution. I'm shocked by the answer. I am not so much accusing the Foreign Minister of this, but I note that there is still little unity within the European Union about putting together the sanction package. My main concern is that we want to use that sanction package to discourage and not only when it is too late. I cannot do more than once again encourage the Minister to do everything in his power to organise this unity and also to make Europe's partners aware that it is a question of using deterrents, where sanctions are crucial. Finally, I would like to say once again: unity in the European Union is the most important thing that we have in order not to let ourselves fall apart and not become the laughing stock internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u388	I have just checked Mrs Ellemeet's commitment. She is absolutely right; she has indeed made that point recently. Very good. Then the Minister said: I am not going to promise anything, but I will see what I can do to strengthen the OSCE. So I actually think my motion is all the better, because that motion really calls on the government to do so. The Minister has agreed to look. So I'd say very well if you'd like to join us. Then as a chamber, we make the call to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u389	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u390	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u391	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk could have also said that the motion is actually superfluous, because the commitment is already there. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u392	I've just been reading it, but apparently Mrs. Mulder hasn't. The minister said I'm not gonna promise anything, but I'm gonna talk about it. That's quite different from what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u393	Mr. Chairman. We have talked today about de-escalation and its importance. Sanctions should be dissuasive. Indeed, a booklet was opened on how it works now in the EU. I'm worried about that, too. At the same time, we have seen that at the moment when someone like Lukashenko does something that we all say can't do, we can come to firmer packages. So I think Russia has also seen that we have that strength together. But I'd like to see it in front. We are indeed thinking of the people who are affected by the threat. Colleagues have already mentioned this. For us, these people are not only in Ukraine, but also in Belarus. That is why I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to consult with the opposition leader Tichanovskaya of Belarus. Does he intend to commit to the CDA Group and to this Chamber? Furthermore, we think it is right that we should work together to regulate this consensus, deterrent and speed in the EU for the future. Because if we lack geopolitics, at least there is one very big laughing third, namely the country that is now organising the Olympic Games. We certainly shouldn't be naive about that. That country will also have a nice conversation with Putin tomorrow. So we need to know what we are doing here as a European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u394	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u395	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the two directors for the answers they gave in the first term. During the debate, I wondered: how would Putin have looked at this debate? I know he didn't do this because he's going to work tomorrow. There he has a meeting with Xi Jinping for the opening of the Winter Olympics. But if he had, how would he have looked at this? I think he'd narrow it down. I think he'd laugh and rub his hands. For there is no beginning of a sanction package and there is great division within the European Union. We hear even sounds from political parties here in the Chamber that Ukraine's NATO membership is not done even in the long term. And if there's a request to supply weapons, so we hear from the minister, it's gonna take a couple of weeks. Mr. Chairman. I am really sorry that we as the European Union cannot make a fist. I therefore call on the cabinet to join the vanguard of European countries that do. The United Kingdom is actually taking action. Poland does the same as a member of the European Union. I hope that our cabinet too will move in that direction and not adopt the attitude that Putin can rub in his hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u396	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As pointed out earlier, it is important for the Christian Union that the NATO countries, and also the EU countries, unite to make a fist against Russia. We do this by means of sanctions. I have heard from the ministers that they are taking this seriously and that they want it done in good time. I'm happy about that. On the other hand, they also want to ensure that Ukraine receives support where necessary. I'm happy about that, too. I tabled a motion with Mr Sjoerdsma. I look forward to the appreciation. I have one more question. I think it was said that we are not sending soldiers to Ukraine, but Minister Ollongren indicated that people might be needed to teach Ukrainian colleagues how to handle the equipment. I wonder whether that takes place in Ukraine and whether it is military and, if so, whether it does not mean de facto Dutch military presence in Ukraine. Perhaps it is late, perhaps I misunderstood, but I would like to have some clarification on this. The position of the cabinet is that it looks favourably at the request, but that it is not a question of military presence. At the same time, if they have to prepare equipment and train other soldiers, this is de facto the case. So I'd like to get some clarity on that. I also wish the Cabinet success in considering the request as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u398	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves, to provide the motions with appreciations and to answer a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u399	The next item is the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Can I say this again? The cabinet very much appreciates that we think we have very broad support in the Chamber, from the coalition parties but also from the PvdA, GroenLinks, the SGP, DENK, Volt, by Mr Ephraim, and I also believe that from BBB and Mrs Teunissen, at least for the part concerning sanctions. I would like to say that I appreciate that very much, because this really is not about a political trifle, but something very fundamental. I just really appreciate that people want to look at it so openly and constructively. I really want that said. So thank you very much. To the other members of your Chamber, I say: I respect that, and in general, you always miss the sheep the furthest from the herd. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions that I would like to deal with and then I come to the motions. We have understood your letter of formal notice so well that the Secretary of Defense has said that I will have to make all the motions at a rapid rate. That's what I'm gonna do. I would like to assure Mrs Mulder that I will indeed have the contact she insisted on. So that's what I wanted to say in her direction. I would like to say to Mr Brekelmans that I am also going ahead with his suggestion on reaching out to the Dutch. I would simply like to agree with him, in order to save time, that I should not write a separate letter on this subject, but that item should be included in the annotated agenda of the sitting and, where necessary, in the report. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to assure Mrs Teunissen that I will conclave with Minister Jetten on the letters. I think he's already promised letters to the Chamber. I also know from the Cabinet Council that he is very busy with this. So I guess I won't put him in a complicated position if I make this commitment. But I am making this commitment in such a way that I will discuss this with him first. I thought it was a very logical and sensible question, so I am going to make an effort to do so. I would also like to thank Mrs Teunissen. Mr. Chairman. Then I've had the questions and I'm on the motions. The first motion was about not sending Dutch soldiers to Ukraine. It is important to be as precise and precise as what the Minister of Defence has just said and what we said earlier as a cabinet. There is no mention whatsoever of sending Dutch soldiers to Ukraine to take part in battles there. We're not gonna do that. That is not the case. The country is not a member of NATO. It's really different. At the same time, this one-line motion is so explicit and so absolute that it excludes any possibility for any single soldier who might be needed in the future, so to speak, on a training mission. In view of the absolute nature of the matter, I must advise against the motion with this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u401	And if we can change the motion to a fresh act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u402	Yes. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of Defense, but I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u403	Is that okay, or am I breaking all kinds of rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u404	This listens so closely that I would like to see the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u405	Then we agree that Mr Ephraim will table the amended motion and that we will get an appreciation from the cabinet for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u406	That's excellent. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 68. I would also like to thank Mr Ephraim very much for his constructive contribution to the debate, but I must advise against this motion. This motion asks the government to evacuate Dutch citizens in good time. I have argued that we can do a lot in terms of communication and embassy staff, but I simply cannot promise the timely evacuation of all the Dutch who are in Ukraine. Then the motion to part No. 69. If I were in a bad mood, I could say that it is superfluous and that there is a burglary in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet. That would be charmingly wrapped bread robberies. I could say in the direction of Mr Dassen, as the previous chairman of the First Chamber always said: bien étonnés de se trouver ensemble. This is not a combination that I expected immediately, but it is late at night, so I am going to repeat the pledge I made earlier to Mrs Ellemeet by means of stowing this motion. I'll leave this motion judgment room. The Jasper van Dijk c.s. motion in piece No. 70, with reference to the debate, I must advise against it. From the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. in piece No. 71 is very much ported to the cabinet, including the comments in the preamble. However, given the great complexity, I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma if he would agree that we should make an update. I believe that this will be a longer process. Before we really took that down, I really think we're a little further, knowing how fast the wheels spin there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u407	Let me take a look at Mr Sjoerdsma to see if that agreement is in place. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u408	Mr. Chairman. The Brekelmans/Agnes Mulder motion in part No. 72 I'd like to give judgment Chamber. I would like to add that speed and care really go hand in hand with this. The handwritten motion-De Roon in part No. Seventy-three, I have to advise against it. Not because the version before me is handwritten, but by reference to the debate. The motion-De Roon/Wilders in part No. 74. The Van der Plas motion in part No. 75 I can give judgment Chamber, but I really want to point out that this is still quite difficult. I have argued in the debate, I say to Mrs Van der Plas, that we are looking with the Ministry of Finance at what can be done. But that's gonna be a pretty tough assignment. We need to see if we can carry out this motion, but if I can put it in the colour bath of my earlier exchange of views with Mr Sjoerdsma, among others, then I can at least give that motion a ruling Chamber as far as the effort is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u409	Let me take a look at Mr. Brekelmans. Is this about Mrs. Van der Plas' motion? Okay, if not, let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u410	Mr. Chairman. Then I have the Van der Plas motion in part No. 76. That's a speech-expression and not to me. Then I forgot two things, for which I apologize. I would like to say to Mr Kuzu, whom I would also like to thank very much, that he has left the building, like others, that I very much agree with him where he called upon the cabinet to become one of the vanguards in the European Union on these issues and geopolitics. That is exactly what I have been trying to say, so I will do so and I would like to respond positively. Then the last. Of course, it does not concern Mrs Van der Plas in any way, but I had three missed calls from my daughter. He has all sorts of things to note that I do mind, but with regard to the homework she occasionally seeks contact and this was about what Sparta could have done a few thousand years ago. On the basis of the example of spartan education, I have tried to improve her knowledge network during the break. By the way, this spartan education is a model that was less appealing to her. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u411	I think Mrs Van der Plas would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u412	Thank you. This is the new impetus that the Netherlands wants: supreme transparency, even about private matters. That's very much appreciated, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u413	Yeah, and the trouble is for me for the rest of the weekend, but I'll tell you about it after the weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u414	I would like to give the floor to Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u415	The Spartans were also very good at collective self-defense. In this respect, I hope that the Minister will take the lessons of that. No, I just wanted to say a few words about the Ephraim motion in part No. 67, because he listens very closely. It is about sending Dutch soldiers and I would ask both Mr Ephraim and the Minister to come forward quickly with an amended motion and appreciation so that we can both discuss it in good time in the group. Because here the phrase really listens very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u416	I think that's what we just agreed to. Anyway, Monday would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u417	Affirmative. I think that we, in particular the Minister of Defence, or together, would like to give an appreciation to this amended motion. It will surprise no one, given what we have been promoting in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u418	The modified motion is already here, so it's moving fast. This brings us to the end of the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm gonna check on the Secretary of Defense. No, it's all right. You want another final word...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u419	Mr President, I was actually going to make it short and painless, but that failed. I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u420	This brings us to the end of this debate... Oh, I suddenly see a lot of hustle and bustle in the room. Mr. Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u421	Another very important question to Minister Ollongren. I think she already knows what it's about. I wanted to ask whether we still have de facto military forces in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u422	Sorry, I thought Mr Hoekstra had already said something about that at the appreciation of the motion. But I'd be happy to go into it as well. In any case, I would like to make a commitment to Mr Dassen, who asked if the Chamber could receive a letter on the Cyber Rapid Response Team in the framework of the PESCO project, in which I could go into a little more detail about the question he asked. I'd be happy to make that commitment. Then, in addition to what the honourable Member has just said in the appreciation of the motion. I'll come back on my first term. I said very clearly that Ukraine is not a member of NATO. There is no mention of Article 5 and in that sense there is no mention of sending military forces to Ukraine to carry out combat actions in defence of Ukraine. For the rest, I said that, for example, in the case of the supply of certain types of military equipment, you cannot rule out the possibility that this would include training. You need to take a good look at that. That is what I said in the context of answering the questions that were asked about weapons. Finally, I also said about that same cyber training team that that does not necessarily mean that that team should also go to Ukraine, because it can also take place from a distance. But the opposite is also true. This may be necessary for certain types of assistance. In other words, I fully agree with the honourable Member who has just said that. I would not rule out any form of cooperation that could mean that no one could travel to Ukraine. That's how I meant to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u423	Finally, Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u424	Thanks for the Minister's explanation. I understand, in very simple words, that it is possible that there will indeed be soldiers in Ukraine in the foreseeable future, even if it is to provide material support or help colleagues in Ukraine. When will the Minister know if that's necessary? And is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u425	In any case, I am prepared to inform the Chamber. If it's related to the request for military property, it's part of the trade-off. The cabinet has already promised that it will share with the Chamber the final weighing and will be very transparent about it. So should this be a part of it, the Court will by definition be informed of it. The same goes for the other situation I outlined about cyber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u426	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-03-tweedekamer-12.u427	I would like to thank the directors and colleagues very much. I think it was a nice, good debate. I would also like to thank the people who have followed the debate and the support. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled.
