ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the declaration of government. Before we proceed with the debate and I give the floor to Mrs Hermans, I must say something. I will do that very briefly. A number of colleagues have made it clear, and I share that, that the kick-off of this debate may be a different kick-off than we had imagined. No. I want to finish my point, Mr. Wilders! Also to limit it in... We are also about to have a debate on the forms of behaviour. There are a number of colleagues, including Mr Heerma, who have made a suggestion. Mrs Simons, like other colleagues, has also made a suggestion. I suggest that we use this debate to go into depth there about this method of working, otherwise this debate will be disturbed too much by this issue. I'd say that's a shame, because it's really a subject that we really need to talk about in depth, so to speak, once and for all. That's what I was gonna say. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, I really wonder why you are doing this. There's no reason for that at all. This has already been the subject of the debate. I kept my input. It's a debate. You're basically saying on behalf of everyone...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	You're bringing it up. There are a lot of people who have been watching this debate, also a lot of people at home. They find exactly the opposite of you. They think I've kept a good story. They believe that it was wrong, as you, as President, have dealt with it, as well as the rest of the Chamber. You're looking for the coalition and some left-wing parties to back yourself up, but I'd say don't do that. This is part of the debate. Nothing's been said wrong! At most, it is an opinion that is not shared. For the rest, it has been a factual input. So don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	This was a general appeal, precisely to ensure that we can talk about it at another time. It was a general remark and I think it is a good thing that we do so at a later date. I am also talking to all the groups. I also really hope that I will be able to talk to you again, because unfortunately your group is the only group that has not yet agreed to do so. I think it is very good that we can talk about this in depth once in a while, including the subject of security and the subject of Mrs Simons. Mr. Heerma. I would like to conclude by giving Mrs Hermans the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr President, I have made a point of order. As chairman, you did not have the reaction of the other political group spokesmen, because you said I would take it with you. Now you say that you think it should be discussed in that debate. But my point of order was just that the President, together with the Presidium now, can pick up or I was not only concerned with Mr Wilders' remarks about persons here, because it is a hook to intervene in the debate. I would not want that proposal not to be taken up while waiting for that debate. I would like to make a commitment from you as President that, in the run-up to that debate, you are already working with the Bureau to determine what we all feel here, namely that there is a relationship, so that it can also provide a hook for enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think I have already indicated that I was already working on this issue. In that sense, I have actually confirmed that the subject of discussion is: what is the effect in general of our way of debating? What is the effect of the horror that you sometimes see in it, on safety? So I do not need to give up any further commitment, because we were already working on that. But I thought it was a good comment. I propose that we now move on to the content of the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. There's an agreement. There is a missionary cabinet and the House of Representatives has been made up of 150 members since this morning. So we can get to work and I'm very excited about that, because it's about time and because the VVD Group thinks there's a good and firm agreement. It is an agreement with ambitions that strengthens this country and with agreements to address the major issues before us. It is an agreement to make the lives of everyone who is of good will better, to strengthen, support and green our entrepreneurs and the economy, to keep our country and all families in our country safe and to ensure that the Netherlands remains a nice and fun country to grow up and live in. Mr. Chairman. That's looking at each other and looking forward to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	You'll stop, but you'll finish your sentence very briefly first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	I see all the asking looks, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	But then I'm gonna go on for a while. "Seeing each other, looking forward to the future." When I say "look forward to the future," I also feel some restraint and some kind of dilemma in myself. I'm not saying that because I don't want to look forward or because I don't have faith in the future, but if your pub or restaurant has been closed for weeks, the curtains in the theater have been hanging still for a long time, the door of your favorite museum is closed, the stands at the sports fields are empty, you haven't been able to celebrate your birthday or say goodbye to your work, then there's not much to look forward to. Yeah, until the next press conference. Mr. Chairman. We've been in this pandemic for almost two years now, and we don't know how long it's gonna take. Minister Kuipers has already said: Corona will not go away for a while. That hopeless one makes me despondent. We can't keep doing this the same way for years. It is important that we give people perspective again, because everything can be done when you see the way forward. At this very point, the VVD Group really expects something from the cabinet in the coming weeks: a look at the way forward. After two years, we still don't know everything about the virus, but we don't know about everything in the dark anymore. Over the past two years, the vast majority of the Netherlands have kept to all the rules. A lot of people have been vaccinated, not only to protect themselves, but also to protect each other. Theaters, museums, shopkeepers and catering entrepreneurs: they have all closed their doors, opened them again, closed them again and opened them again. They've always done what they needed to do. For that group, the group that has put everything in place, my group expects the cabinet to do everything in its power not to limit them more than is strictly necessary. The central question is: what can be done and how can be done safely? That is how my group will assess the cabinet's proposals. In principle, we will take a positive view of all the proposals which contribute to this and which respond to that question. But that does not mean, of course, that we say yes to everything, because there will also be measures that we do not like. But if we always just say no, we won't get anywhere. I can only hope that in the coming time we will make choices here in the interests of all those people who have put everything on everything and who want nothing more than to be able to do what makes life fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you. I feel like a natural moment. I also see Mrs Marijnissen getting closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mrs Hermans kicks off by saying that she is happy that the cabinet can start. I fear that Mrs Hermans is one of the few in the Netherlands who is happy about that, because there are few people who have faith in Rutte IV. I actually expected her to start her story by saying that something went terribly wrong in the coalition negotiations. We all got the bank transfers from the Nibud this morning. This shows very clearly that, despite spending billions, billions and billions of dollars in this cabinet, the Netherlands is declining. My question to Mrs Hermans is: how is that possible and what is she going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	I'm still glad this cabinet can get started. I am proud of the agreement that is in place, because it addresses all kinds of challenges and ambitions that we need to work to make this country stronger. I also realize that over the next four years, we will encounter things on the road that are going to make it more difficult for us to realise our ambitions. But we'll also run into opportunities, so we might be able to do things faster than we'd like. You point out that we have seen a problem in recent weeks, namely inflation rates and their impact on people's incomes. I think that is exactly a subject that belongs to politics. If that gets on your plate and on your path, you take it and get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	I have to think about what Mrs Hermans is saying here. In my opinion, Mr Rutte stated in his government statement that there were 12 months between the fall of Rutte III and the arrival of Rutte IV. So Mrs Hermans has had 12 months to think about this. The fact that the rents are exploding, that the energy bill is rising hugely and that the messages are getting more expensive and more expensive does not come from the sky. Rutte IV presents a package of measures to spend billions and billions, but with which the ordinary Dutchman doesn't get anything better. That's just so hard, Mrs. Hermans. Mr President, we can only ask eight questions today, of course. Since we are allowed to ask so few questions, I hope you will help to ensure that there are concrete answers. Of course, I asked Mrs Hermans what she would do about it. She shouldn't keep a vague story in the vein of: we have such beautiful plans, things are coming our way and that can also be opportunities. What good does that do people? That doesn't help people! What's in it for the AOWs? In the knowledge that everything is becoming more expensive and pensions have not been indexed for years, the AOW people have simply been told: unfortunately, despite the fact that the minimum wage is rising a little, your AOW benefit is not improving. What does Mrs Hermans say to those AOWs? Or does she just leave it standing in the cold with a nice story about opportunities and challenges that we have to work with together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mrs Marijnissen is now quoting from my words to her own preference. Here's what I'm gonna say to her question. In the agreement presented by this coalition in mid-December, it is stated how the income effects will unpack the purchasing power plates, to use the technical word for a moment. There's a plus in that for everyone. One plus is bigger than the other; I admit that immediately. This is also in line with the objective of this cabinet, namely a balance and a positive purchasing power image for all. What do we see in the CPB figures and in the Nibud figures? In this we see that a number of groups below zero, in the minus, are falling. So that does not fit in with that premise of this cabinet. That's what I said. You make a deal at some point in time. After that, things can happen along the way. You have to respond to that and act, and this is such an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	Now Mrs Hermans gives the same answer, namely that we need to act on it, but I ask her what she will do. As we stand here and Rutte IV presents itself, it's just super obvious that the whole of the Netherlands is declining, while there's huge economic growth, while companies' profits go through the roof, while the benefits to shareholders are high, while this cabinet spends billions and billions. It can't be! So, for the third time now, I hope that the President will help me to get the answer. What Mrs Hermans is going to do in concrete terms, except to say that it is a challenge. I would like to add that on the decoupling of the AOW, which means that the AOW no longer goes along with the minimum wage, just before the elections in this House of Representatives, a motion of the SP was adopted unanimously on the need for that link to remain. Then I did not find it in the election programmes and it was not included in the election campaign. Then Rutte IV presents himself and the clutch is gone. AOWers are just being put in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	Do you want Mrs Hermans to respond to the last part? What is your specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	I had already asked what Mrs Hermans is going to do in the two interruptions before this, except to mention that it needs to be picked up. What's she gonna do? And I would indeed like to respond to the fact that a motion of ours was adopted here just before the elections on the need to maintain that link and that this link is gone when Rutte IV presents himself. That's a bit of a voter deception, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	What the VVD is going to do, what the VVD is going to ask this cabinet, is this. The starting point of this coalition agreement is a balanced and positive purchasing power image for all. The figures of the Central Planning Bureau and also the figures of the Nibud this morning, although the coalition plans have not yet been taken into account, do not reflect that point of departure. I believe that we have a duty to put that principle into practice. So I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to come up with proposals on how we can solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	And Mrs Marijnissen's last point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	What was the question? Oh, yeah, the decoupling. Excuse me. When you negotiate a coalition agreement, a lot of topics come along and you have to make a lot of choices, also difficult choices. We have made those choices in these negotiations, those that are less easy and those that are easier, but I stand for the overall package of this agreement. Let me repeat once again that in the accounts and the effects of this agreement of 15 December, as we have presented in our plans, there was that plus for everyone; there was that balanced and positive purchasing power picture for everyone. We have then seen calculations that do not show the figures we are aiming for, and I therefore call on the Cabinet to come up with proposals to do something about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	I hope that this will not be at the expense of another interruption, because then it will be very hard. Mrs Hermans simply does not answer my question. Here, in Parliament, a motion has been passed which states that the link between the AOW and the minimum wage would be maintained. Then how come Rutte IV presents himself and that clutch is gone? I would like to ask Mrs Hermans whether she does not think that is a lie to the electorate. Then Mrs Hermans should not come up with a nice story about the challenges and we should ask the cabinet what it is going to do to compensate for them. I ask Mrs Hermans whether she does not think that is a mistake, since it has played no part in the election campaign and since people did not vote for it here, but the entire House of Representatives said that this link remains. Get into that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	If you negotiate, I repeat, you have to make choices on a number of topics. This cabinet, this coalition, has said: we want a balanced and positive purchasing power image for everyone; we want work to pay more. For that we have to make a catch-up at the bottom. That is why we are going to increase the statutory minimum wage by 7.5% in steps. For the elderly too, we want the purchasing power picture to be balanced and positive. That is why, in the coalition agreement, we agreed that we would compensate older people through the elderly discount. We now see in the CPB figures that this compensation is not enough, because, in particular, high inflation leads to them sinking through the ice. Hence my appeal to the cabinet: come up with proposals to go back to the starting point, namely a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	There are a number of follow-up interruptions. I'm just gonna give you the names so everyone knows when to interrupt. First, Mr Azarkan, and then Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mrs Den Haan, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van der Plas. First of all, Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	You can see that this cabinet and Mrs Hermans are living in a different reality. She started by saying: it's a beautiful chord, looking at each other. She also said, "I'm looking forward to it for the next four years." But I think this cabinet will be ready in three years and a month or two. That is not going to take four years, Mrs Hermans, I say through you, Mr President. The second is this. "Looking forward to the future" is a little double-up. My question is about that "looking at each other." Does Mrs Hermans know what a single mother of one child who has a benefit per month earns, or what a single elderly person gets from AOW per month?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	I have to deal with an actual point first. I said "four years," but I realise, of course, that because the formation lasted too long, we are three years and two months ahead of the next elections. That's right. Mr. Azarkan is now asking me a question about an exact income picture. I am going to answer that honestly: I do not know the exact answer to that. I would like to say the following about "seeing each other." We have put that in the title of this coalition agreement for a reason. That's wider than just income. It is precisely the starting point of a balanced and positive purchasing power image for everyone, which I have already mentioned a few times. This also includes the fact that if it somehow, by any circumstance, looks like a certain group is falling below a level, that something is getting very heavy somewhere, it is our responsibility and our duty to do something about it. My appeal to the cabinet is therefore this. This is a starting point of the coalition agreement. I am one of the guardians of that coalition agreement with my group in this Chamber, and we will ensure that that starting point is restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	But it is also good that the signals that are there are taken seriously. As early as September, the rise in inflation was warned. And in the coalition agreement, which has the name "Seeing each other," we see that that means that of people who have an AOW of €1,200, €24 is taken away. Of people with one child who earn €1,000 because they have a benefit, this cabinet takes €15. That's not looking out for each other, is it? Doesn't that mean looking at the most vulnerable? I get it; you may not know a lot of people, I say through the chairman, who have a benefit or just an AOW. But it's painful that our elders aren't getting around right now, that they're setting the thermostat at 15 or 16 degrees, that people can't afford the groceries anymore. Then you can't just say: we're going to think about it again? You've lost a year. You only have three years left!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr Azarkan talks about "take away." This isn't about taking away. This is about whether or not you're linking something and whether or not something is coming along. That's not something "take away" from what you have now. Now let's keep the facts sharp and honest. I can see that the energy costs are enormous. I can certainly see that at the bottom, in people who are already having a hard time. I can see that's intense for them. That is also a reason why the previous cabinet has already decided to compensate for the energy bill. I also saw in the figures of the Nibud that the separate arrangement we have made has not yet been passed on. I'd like to see that. I'd like to know. I want to know in March what the CPB says about inflation in its final estimate, so that we can finally see how the figures are working out, how inflation is working out for purchasing power figures. Because if we're gonna fix that, we're gonna have to do that, in line with the principles of this coalition agreement, I want to know what I need to fix and where I need to fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr. Azarkan. No? I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mrs Hermans, you just told Mr Azarkan that you didn't take anything from the elderly, but you did take something from them. You take away the link between wages and benefits, which has existed since 1980. That's just a law. If that's what you want, you'll have to file a law not to apply that link. So you take away what is normal under the applicable laws, namely that you also increase the AOW if you raise the minimum wage. You don't want that. So you are taking away the 7.5% they are getting now, based on the current law. I would ask you not to refer to the cabinet now, but to say that we are going to do so; we are going to make sure that this AOW benefit is also linked and that it also increases by 7.5%. It's the least you can do. Older people often find it extremely difficult in the Netherlands when it comes to their wallet. This certainly applies to the elderly with a small supplementary pension. You know that if you have less than €500 supplementary pension, you will not even receive the increase in the old age discount calculated by you. Those people aren't getting anything. They are now watching television and they see that you have set aside 60 billion for climate and nitrogen. They may not know that you are spending EUR 75 billion on all kinds of targets in the next cabinet period. If they don't know, I'll tell them: 75 billion you spend. Then can you not spend 2 billion out of that 75 billion on those elderly people, so we just promise that we will be together... Maybe we don't have to; it probably happens already when you say: Mr Rutte, I'm also from the VVD and I want those pensions, those AOW benefits, to be linked as they should be under the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	The link between the AOW and the minimum wage will be released as soon as we make that step-by-step increase. Afterwards, the AOW is simply linked to the minimum wage. To the elderly at home who are now watching and to all those who have sent me an e-mail, I admit that I have not yet found the time to respond to all the e-mails, I say that in this coalition agreement we have made the agreement that we want to present to everyone a plus, a positive and balanced purchasing power picture. I'm asking the cabinet... I'm ordering the cabinet to come forward with proposals to get it done. For me, it is not the means at the centre but the goal of creating a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for everyone, including for the elderly in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	No, it's not just about the means, it's about the purpose. The elderly in the Netherlands have known since 1980 that when the minimum wage goes up, their AOW goes up. You can come up with an excuse in the sense of "we're going to file a law for that once." For you have to do so by law; you know this; you have to submit a law to take the elders. You say we do that once and then we withdraw that law again or we put in that law that we only do it once. No, you just shouldn't. Older discount doesn't work. There's no other way you can do that. Rut giving an order to do that? I don't know what he's coming up with. Probably he's gonna wait for inflation to develop and he's gonna join the Spring Note or I know how many months he's gonna watch. Those elders... we get those e-mails; all the groups get those e-mails. They have their rent, their energy bill and high costs for their groceries. If they can afford a car, they have to pay the top price at the gas station. So you just have to say... Well, you don't have to do anything, but I'm just asking you to say: we're going to do this in one way, which is the way the law now says, so by linking pensions, the AOW benefits; that's what Rutte has to do. Not "let them do it." We know what comes next, don't we? Then nothing happens or nothing happens for a few months. Now give these elderly people the guarantee that their AOW benefit will also increase by 7.5%. That costs 2.4 billion euros. That's nothing compared to the 60 billion you gave D66 for climate and nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	It is precisely because of the arguments that Mr Wilders mentions why it is difficult for older people that energy prices, pump prices and inflation prices should be included in the proposal and that we should ask the Cabinet to include this estimate in March. After all, I want to know exactly how it works, and then I can also make the choice: what is the route, and what is the means by which we can ensure that a balanced and positive purchasing power picture also applies to older people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	First of all, I have a comment about the crocodile tears that Mrs Hermans is crying about the lockdown. "It's all so sad for all those entrepreneurs." That is the direct consequence of the VVD's policy. Fortunately, we are having another debate on Thursday, but it is a bit silly to say here that the cabinet must do something about this, because over the last two years we have practically forced the entire Dutch business community to commit suicide. Then the AOW. It's 2.4 billion. Mr Wilders just said that. I referred to Mrs Marijnissen's remark that it had not played a role in the campaign. But it has played a very big role. The election programme of the VVD stated that benefits such as assistance do not automatically increase with the minimum wage, with the exception of the AOW. And what happens? D66 has been an honest party in that respect. In the election programme, it said "we're not going to do this," and now the coalition agreement says: we're going to do that. The elderly get caught with 2.4 billion. Many, many billions are spent elsewhere, while the proceeds are completely unclear. How could you have given this away so easily from your own election program?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	If Mr Van Haga had looked at our accounts, he would have seen us doing two things. The first is to increase the wml by 10% and to decouple it from all benefits. The second is to decouple payments from the minimum wage during this cabinet period. So we cut it up in two steps. Excuse me, I have to add that the AOW was excluded from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	So it was two separate measures. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	I understand that, but your own election programme says you're not gonna do it, and you're gonna do it eventually. It costs the AOW'er 2.4 billion, while it is already falling very much on it. The nice thing is, you're going to spend 25 billion on nitrogen right now. There's gonna be a minister for Nitrogen. It's delivered by the VVD. But we all know that nitrogen is actually no problem at all. If you look at it technically, you can see that we have made a huge mistake in ever telling the EU that we all have Natura 2000 sites that we call "heather," which are therefore food-poor, and that we should not have nitrogen on them. Then you've got all those RIVM deposition models that don't add up. So, while we are stealing 2.4 billion from the elderly, we are going to spend 25 billion on a nitrogen problem that is ultimately a problem of civil servants or a bureaucratic problem. Don't you think that's completely out of proportion to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	This coalition agreement is touching a lot of problems and ambitions that we have in this country. One of them is indeed to solve the nitrogen problem, which is indeed there. That's why we can't build right now. We can't build houses and build roads. The nitrogen problem also has a major effect on our nature. So I think it is a very sensible plan and a very good idea for this cabinet to say: "We are going to solve that now. We are going to agree on this with provinces and with everyone who has a contribution to make to solving the problem of nitrogen. We will. We make that choice."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	The nice thing about the nitrogen problem is that if you look at the ticket with the whole nitrogen problem in Europe, you will see that the Netherlands has a nitrogen problem and that that ends exactly at the borders of the country. That's because other countries have been smart. They have called their natural areas "forest." If nitrogen deposition takes place there, it's just food and nitrogen oxide is no problem at all. Only because we have called it "heather" is there growing the plantain, the broom and all other nice plants... is the food poor and should not drop nitrogen on it. So it is a totally Kafkaesque, bureaucratic problem. You're going to spend 25 billion on that, but there's no point. It is a pity that 25 billion is so easily spent, while 2.4 billion is needed to maintain the link. I don't understand that bizarre contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	I don't understand this link. On the one hand, we are solving a problem with nitrogen to restore our nature, to ensure that we can build again and that farmers get perspective, which they are looking for now. The other thing we do is make work pay again by raising the minimum wage. We have said: we want everyone in the Netherlands to have a balanced and positive purchasing power picture. I will repeat those words again. That is why we have said to the elderly: "We are going to compensate you. You will receive support from us." And what do we see now in the figures, not the passing-through in the coalition agreement, the figures we have presented ourselves, but in the CPB figures, and today in the Nibud? We see older people sinking through the ice in particular. So that doesn't match what we agreed on. It is not what we intended with the coalition agreement. That is why we need to find a solution. I ask the Cabinet to come forward with proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	All right, that's it. Mrs Hermans mentions the construction stop and the farmers, for which there has to be a perspective. It is precisely because of a Kafkaesque nitrogen problem that does not exist that there is no prospect for the farmers anymore and there is a construction stop. Not only because of this, because there is also a pfas problem created by ourselves, because we have set a wrong limit value. Anyway, more mistakes have been made in the previous cabinet. The crazy thing is that the nitrogen problem stops at national borders. You're not entirely responding to that. We have chosen a particular system, a particular model of RIVM, which has created a nitrogen problem, but these are our own rules. We have identified certain Natura 2000 sites ourselves with the EU. This has created this problem. We can take care of it ourselves. For that, we don't need the 25 billion at all. Then we don't need a nitrogen minister. Then we can just build and the farmers can just stay. Then it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	Nitrogen is a problem in the Netherlands. I shall leave the qualifications of this problem to Mr Van Haga. We feel responsible for solving this, precisely in order to restore nature, including for future generations, and to ensure that it can be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mrs Hermans began her speech by saying that we can get to work. I also heard you say a number of times: working must pay off. We also know that the VVD takes that view. But is this really just about paid work?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u47	I'm not sure I fully understand the question. If I say here that work must pay and that the increase in the minimum wage is linked to it, it is indeed paid work, so that doing work is more rewarding than getting benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u48	Does the VVD also realize that pensioners have also worked their whole lives, and still work, albeit not paid, as volunteers and as carers? If these people put the job down, we'll shut down entire sectors. Why doesn't this job pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u49	I am absolutely aware of the hard work that the retired generation has done for this country and of the voluntary commitment, whether it is family care or babysitting, which they provide daily. It is precisely for this reason that we have also said, in addition to 'work must pay', that we want to ensure a decent, balanced and positive purchasing power picture for the elderly, the pensioners. That was also the outcome of the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. A month later, the CPB's accounts came and this morning the Nibud's accounts. In this we see that the income effects do not work out as we have intended them, as we have formulated as a starting point. In my view, then, as a member of the VVD Group, my colleagues in the coalition will be speaking only one thing, namely to say to the cabinet: come forward with proposals, with ideas, to restore this starting point and put forward proposals to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u50	I find it a little strange that you have just reached that conclusion. A number of my colleagues and myself have also mentioned in the debate on the coalition agreement that older people are once again out of business. With the decoupling of the AOW, plus the fact that the elderly discount is given but doesn't actually do anything at all, there are such a thing as what is it? 500,000 people in the cold. I really wonder what you mean by the question to the cabinet: what can we do for these people? For the VVD did not support my motion in that same debate, in which the same question was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u51	In the passing on of the coalition agreement, or at least the figures we presented in our coalition agreement on how our plans will work out for the different groups in the Netherlands, the elderly were in the plus. That's what I think is right. This is also part of that principle, I repeat, of a balanced and positive purchasing power picture. The CPB was then calculated. It has had to make assumptions on a number of points. Of course, because the agreement has not yet been fully worked out. We see that the inflation that has been settled in it is higher than we had in December in our own transfer account, in order not to add to the confusion. This means that there is now a picture that does not comply with the starting point as we have agreed. I want us to go back to the starting point. So there's got to be a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u52	That's what I heard. I trust that eventually the AOW will not be disconnected from the benefits, so that you have solved a large part. I also read in the documents, for example, that a large part or some of the departments are not getting the money allocated to them. So, as far as I am concerned, it has been resolved and we would not even have to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mrs Den Haan is now moving quickly to the conclusion on how we are going to solve it and on the means. We can discuss this, but I think we agree on the goal, namely that we should return to the image presented in the coalition agreement, in which there was a balanced and positive purchasing power for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u54	First Mr Eerdmans, then Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Van der Plas, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u55	Is the VVD going to reverse that disconnect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u56	The answer is actually no. I have just outlined what the coalition had in mind when concluding this coalition agreement, namely that we want to take measures with a view to the future in which a lot of issues are coming towards us that also affect people's pockets. However, we want to ensure that in the end a balanced and positive purchasing power picture remains for everyone. The conclusion of the agreement as concluded in December is: yes, this package can do that. Conclusion: if we look at the figures of the CPB and the Nibud, we can see that that balanced picture is not being realized, or at least is not being realised at the moment. So that is not what we are aiming for and is not what we are aiming for. Our goal is that balanced image. We need to get back to that. The way I see it should be open, because I also think it is important that we do it in a way that really contributes and actually solves the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u57	Why is it that the VVD always shoots in its own foot at these important points? You can see that in your own constituency. The VVDs are in turmoil. The CDAs are in riot. All this because of that point of view, the decoupling. Mr Rutte spoke about Hans van Mierlo's dress. If you pull that away, someone will always be in the cold. Somehow you always make sure that there is another group in the cold. That won't be necessary. We don't think anyone should be in the cold. You should just put down a rug, and you could pay for it. I think Mr Wilders was quite right in what he said about that. Billions of dollars have been spent by your cabinet. How can you decide, sitting at that negotiating table, to disconnect the AOW from the minimum wage? You know that, and we will ask here, under the guidance of Mr Omtzigt, for a calculation of the Nibud. That request came not from the VVD but from the opposition to pass it on. And damn it, you see, you're thinking, "Oh, that receipt doesn't add up anymore, we need to fix it." The best repair is simply reconnecting to what those elderly people were promised and what they were promised from 1980? That's trustworthy in politics, isn't it? Isn't that a government that one should be able to trust? You can't put them in the cold, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u58	What is reliable is that we agree on principles and goals in a coalition agreement. One of these is that we have said that everyone must have a balanced and positive view of the measures we agree on in this coalition agreement. A transfer can then show that this is not the case. Main cause: high inflation. This may have an impact on more groups in the coming period, but let me now confine myself to the elderly. So anyway, for the group of older people, we need to do something to compensate for that, to fix that. That's the goal I think we have. That is the goal we are pursuing, so that for everyone that image from which we left is recreated in December. That's how I look at it. Then the road to it is important, but it is ultimately about the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u59	I don't think people understand that, that the people who vote for the VVD can follow this argument. The only repair is just the clutch. In the era of Lubbers in the eighties there was no money and there had to be savings and so it had to come somewhere today. But you're throwing money at billions, and the CPB even says, "What you're spending is off the chart." So it's not a problem with money at all. Apparently, it's a problem of will. The VVD doesn't want the elderly to just get decent compensation and go up with the minimum wage. That's your message here today. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u60	That is complete nonsense, because in the coalition agreement there is money to support the elderly in terms of income. There is an amount in it to ensure that older people are helped and supported in their purchasing power. There is one thing I must say: it is very easy for JA21 to argue for a link here, while the party in its own election programme does not even increase the wml.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u61	I really like that, don't I? Look, we are not at all opposed to the increase in the legal minimum wage, because that is fine. You don't have to put that in the election program to be for that. The point is that you said in your election programme: if there is one thing that goes along with the legal minimum wage if that is increased, then that is the AOW. And you're doing the opposite. It's called electoral deception. Because you're not doing what you promised. I think this is a nuance difference, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u62	You should have listened to the nuance after Mr Van Haga's interruption. Because we are taking two things apart in our accounts: the 10% increase in the minimum wage, with all the benefits disconnected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u63	Does it or does it not say in your election programme that you do not think that the AOW should be disconnected?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u64	Our electoral programme states that the increase in wml by 10% must be made and that the benefits are decoupled. Apart from that, our election program says that the... Now I have to put it right, so I don't get caught up in the technique right now. But apart from that, it says that for the next four years we will be releasing the link, with the exception of the AOW. So you're blaming me for something I wrote in my election program, but we've made choices in the coalition agreement again. My only reproach for you is this. It is very easy to lecture me on the fact that I now have to go back together to fix something, when you did not even propose an increase in the wml.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u65	We're not gonna let the elderly down. JA21 doesn't let them down. You're gonna choke on them. You just drop them like a brick. We say, "Honour to whom credit is due, and you will not come to it." JA21 did not advocate dropping the AOW in the clutch. So that's what you do, as a VVD, and a lot of voters don't like that. That's what they're gonna punish you for. That's what you're going over the knee for. We can see that. We also see this in the e-mails and in all the ways in which they face this debate. You can tell by the way the media handle it. So I'd really like you to think again and reflect on what you just said. The only repair is: reconnecting the AOW with the increase in the legal minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u66	In the coalition agreement, we do not abandon the elderly, because it is precisely through the elderly discount that we have also done something towards the elderly. I have already said that the coalition agreement also contains a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for everyone. We can now see that in the figures of the CPB and the Nibud. So these are not the results we have intended. That has to be repaired. Something must be done about that. I ask the cabinet to come forward with proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u67	Colleagues have already rightly asked questions about the income position of older people. But I actually wanted to return to a more general political question. We've had a long formation. Mrs Hermans has already spoken about this. That had to do, among other things, with the question: who with? The VVD also clearly indicated: no, with the PvdA and GroenLinks we really don't like it. Given that commitment, you would expect more of a centre-right coalition agreement. But when I look at the content, I see a head on top of it in the climate. And then I see Clover gloating. And there can be even more Europe. Then I see Mrs Ploumen looking happy. Then I think, "How am I supposed to place it?" When it comes to finance, they even look almost worried if this doesn't go too far. So how am I supposed to place the VVD on the one hand saying that she doesn't like the PvdA and GroenLinks, while on the other hand there is a coalition agreement whereby a large part of the Dutch left licks his fingers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr Van der Staaij is now selective in picking out of the coalition agreement, I would say. Because look also at the investments in security, in combating the undermining crime. I also mention investments in defence and infrastructure. I think these are subjects that my party has been hard on for years. And then the climate, the climate approach. I said during the General Political Reviews that we did not take the lead. But the VVD is also one hundred percent behind us now taking steps and not thinking: well, it's coming; we'll see how this gets to us. No, we're going to intervene now. We're gonna do everything we can to pass this country on clean to next generations. But we do so in a way where it remains affordable for everyone and in which everyone can continue to participate. That is exactly what this coalition agreement does: set high ambitions, but use resources and instruments to support households and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mrs Hermans pointed out that the VVD had not only entered into a compromise with other parties on a number of issues, but had also changed its position itself. She feels differently about a number of subjects than in the past. The way in which financial solidity is handled is a little more colourful than in the past, I say with caution. I am therefore curious to see what the VVD leader thinks of this new period as the points she says: I really want to keep a VVD profile on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u70	I mentioned all that security, the security here in the Netherlands, and the drug crime. We saw it last summer with the terrible murder of Peter R. de Vries, but also years before that. This crime is beginning to prevail, or has it already, I must say, and we must put a stop to it. We have made a number of agreements on this in this coalition agreement. I fully support this and I will be behind the cabinet, along with my colleagues in the group, to ensure that these measures and agreements are put into practice as soon as possible. And if things don't work out fast enough, you'll see us standing here in the Chamber. And if we think that we need more or that we can do better in another way or in an extra way, then we will continue to come up with proposals ourselves. Then there is the financial solidity, which you also said something about. That remains an incredibly important point for us. You can also see this in the figures at the end of this cabinet period: they all remain within the range. And yes, we are taking a little more room than you may be used to, but we are also doing so from the sense of responsibility that we are facing a number of very important tasks that we want to tackle and solve. Then the question comes: do you push that through or invest a little extra and solve those problems? Then we choose the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u71	We're having a unique experience today. The government parties are already asking for an adaptation of the coalition agreement before the debate on the declaration of government is over. They could have prevented that. They chose to calculate purchasing power themselves and assumed 2% inflation, while last November inflation was 5% and in December 6%. The whole room said, have it passed through the CPB. Not those models of how it's gonna be in 40 years, but get honest numbers. We have a CPB for that, we have a CBS for that, we have a Nibud for that. If the coalition parties had done that, they could have seen that everyone's in trouble. Here's what happens: 116 example households 116 times in the minus. It's a good thing we're adjusting it. But anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u72	Is that the Nibud?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u73	This is today's Nibud. You saw that, didn't you? 116 example households 116 times in min, this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yeah, but with this distance and these letters...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u75	I understand, but you read those three pages this morning, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u76	Your question to Mrs Hermans is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u77	My question is this. This coalition agreement is very D66 according to the supporters of the VVD. I get that. Can the VVD Group give me three examples of what you would have done if you had included them in the coalition agreement? So what you're saying is that I had to put in there, but if I can change them, if I can sneak in and change two more lines, then I'm gonna do these three things differently. The first one you mentioned. That's more like purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u78	I am not going to answer this question in this way. In the last ten weeks, from 5 October to 15 December, we have sat down with four parties. We have taken responsibility with four parties to resolve the problems and issues facing our country. We have taken the rest and the time to listen to each other and to hear from each other what they think is important, what they want to focus on and where they think they need to make a difference. By having that conversation with each other, in a relaxed atmosphere but with a sharp debate on the content, this agreement has come out. I support all the choices we've made. I support all the compromises we have made. That's part of working together. It's part of taking responsibility in a coalition that you give, that you take and that you pour water to the wine. I have done so in full conviction, and I support the agreement that is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u79	The VVD doesn't support the agreement at all. We just heard that they think these purchasing power figures suck. They just asked for the first amendment of the agreement, so they do not support the agreement. I'm just asking, what do you choose if you get to make three changes? You can also say: we did not plan the billing. We don't believe that was brought in by the VVD. Right? It doesn't have to be a big deal. What three changes would you make? Do you think we should maintain that 35 billion climate fund? Do you think we should maintain the deficit and the up to 90% rising public debt? Do you think we should maintain bill riding? Do you think we should maintain the decoupling? Do you think that we should maintain, because that is what the VVD has brought in, that the tax avoidance opportunities for the large multinationals are not being addressed? Pretty, but it wouldn't be my main point. What do you think we should maintain and what do you say: if it were our own thing, would the VVD have done this differently? We would have an open administrative culture and say what we want ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u80	I think we should implement this coalition agreement, from a to z, because I support the agreements we have made. I also support the compromises that we have made and the points where we have admitted something or added water to the wine. In its entirety, I support this programme. Mr Omtzigt is talking about an adjustment, but with the implementation of this coalition agreement I must and am obliged to do something with those purchasing power figures. There are two things in the coalition agreement. One. This coalition seeks a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for all. Two. We see that inflation rates can pose a risk. If that does something in the income position of people, it is up to the cabinet to look at it at the main decision-making time and come up with proposals. Those two things are in the agreement. This has nothing to do with breaking open or adjusting. It is about acting and acting to the reality and reality of everyday life, and giving substance to the agreements and principles that we have formulated with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u81	The VVD, together with the other three coalition parties, refused to pass this on to the CPB and the Nibud. At the Rutte I, Rutte II and Rutte III Cabinets, a coalition agreement came quietly with a bill to the Chamber: this does it. Rutte IV didn't. A motion from Van der Staaij had to be made to do so, while we all said here: look at energy prices; this is not 2% inflation. You really don't have to be a graduate economist for that. Everyone saw that energy prices and thus the gas bill and the electricity bill doubled in certain cases. The only ones who didn't see that were the four negotiating parties. So again the question: do you want to change something? If you do not want to change anything, I say to the President, we have just seen a merger between the VVD and the D66 groups, in the same way as in the European Parliament. They no longer want to take a different view, they do not want to indicate where the differences are and they agree with everything. With that, everything here is completely flattened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u82	I'd like to respond to two things. One is that the coalition would not have wanted to pass on the agreement. That's not true. We have chosen to send the coalition agreement to the Chamber in December and to the outside world at the level of impact we have chosen. I have heard the Prime Minister say: it is thicker than feared and thinner than hoped. Or is that exactly what I'm saying wrong? You know what I mean. We might have wanted it even thinner, but it's what it's become and I'm behind it. I think it's a good deal. We said at the time: you can have it passed on now. That's why we all supported the motion. We would choose to wait a few more moments until the cabinet has worked out a number of plans. Then you can make a better pass-through. We've never stopped a wire transfer. That's the first thing. Second. If you're working together in a coalition, I think Mr Omtzigt should know. You talk to each other about how you want to solve certain problems, or at least what purpose you have. One time, the way forward in the coalition agreement is more open than the other. Each party has thus been able to put its accents in it and give its own colour to it. There will be a difference in the design, implementation and in the debates here, probably even today. You're gonna hear a difference in subjects we're picking out. In the main debates, you will hear a difference in how we look at certain effects and what we want to emphasise. I am incredibly pleased that these debates are now being scheduled in all the committees. I think that is the culture that we must strive for together here. That is quite different from compromise, rather than standing behind it and going into the field about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u83	One more time. At the place where Mrs Hermans is standing, several of my colleagues were from the opposition when we were not allowed to debate the formation. They asked, "Would you like to make a bill?" The coalition parties all said here at the interrupting microphone that they didn't want it. It was only when the agreement was in place and agreed to it that people wanted to know what the consequences were. And then you get that you're surprised about the consequences, because you've all been in a room, while the rest of the Netherlands saw the increase in the energy bill. Then the second. I do not see why the VVD Group does not want to indicate which points it would like to change. It is perfectly normal that this is not a total VVD agreement. There's four of you, so that's not exciting at all. But it is not at all exciting to say that if it had been up to me, I would have wanted to do these three things differently. If you don't dare say that, there will never be an open debate culture here. We shall then have 77 members of the coalition against 73 other Members of Parliament. Then we can't make any proposals, and that just disappoints me. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u84	We can and we must debate everything here. There's gonna be a lot of work ahead of us. Then you will hear exactly what the VVD fraction is like. On this agreement I say to you: I support it, I am proud of it and I very much want to get to work on it very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you. We have Mrs van der Plas, then Mrs Ploumen, then Mr Dassen, then Mr Azarkan, Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Simons. Have I forgotten anyone else? Ah, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u86	It's only nineteen groups. That's easy for you to remember. To refresh Mrs Hermans' memory, I soon looked at the election programme of the VVD. The AOW is not mentioned once, but even twice. One time, as Mrs Hermans says, the AOW is mentioned in the remark: benefits such as assistance do not automatically increase with the minimum wage, with the exception of the AOW and disability. Further on in the programme, there is one more time: if we abolish the health premium or the risk, the money must come from somewhere else, while we also do not want to increase taxes or to cut down on important issues such as education, police and AOW. So twice in the election program of the VVD it happens that there are no cuts in the AOW. That's what's happening now. I am curious: has this been a breaking point in the coalition negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u87	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u88	But if this wasn't a break in the coalition negotiations, why didn't the VVD just say to coalition partner D66: we're just not gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u89	In these negotiations, we have looked at how we can ensure an agreement across the board that will lead to such an income picture for all of us in this country, especially for pensioners, for the elderly, so that they too have a perspective and can continue to live a good life. That was one part of the discussion. The other part was that we want to make working at the bottom more rewarding. Many parties in this Chamber, including the VVD and the other coalition parties, had something in their election programme about increasing the legal minimum wage. That was our discussion about raising the minimum wage, so that working at the bottom is going to pay more. Then you end up in the conversation: how are we going to do that in the link to the benefits? In the discussion we had on this subject, the compromise that we have written down was finally reached. But we have brought these principles together, because we want older people to have a balanced and positive purchasing power. That's exactly why we put in that old-age discount. That is precisely why we are also focusing on income support. So that also led to a positive effect in our own figures. We see that now in a different way from what we are aiming for. So it does not give substance to one of the starting points in the coalition agreement. I think this should be done. The VVD Group believes that this should be done. That is why we are asking the cabinet to come forward with proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u90	And yet I find that weird. Then I go back to the negotiating table and I'm just the fly on the wall, the fly on the wall, knowing that the VVD says not once, but twice in her election program that she doesn't want to torment the AOW. That'll come up. Once again, you have answered this question very extensively, but that was also about benefits and work must pay. If it's not a breaking point, you can just say, "Listen, we're not gonna do this"? As previous speakers have just said in interruptions, it was no surprise that energy prices, petrol prices and food prices are rising and that everyone in their pockets has to gibberish to pay with the last penny. Let me come back to the words in the coalition agreement, namely that the government must be reliable, serviceable, close and just. There are two points I would like to make: reliable and just. It is not reliable because the VVD does not honour an election promise; it is twice in the election programme. And it's not fair. Does Mrs Hermans agree that it is not so much about the tens, but that it is about people in the AOW simply not feeling seen, not heard and not appreciated because it has just been crossed through? It's also a piece of appreciation and trust in the government. That does not violate Mrs Hermans personally, but it violates the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u91	Precisely for this reason, precisely because of what Mrs Van der Plas says about the reliable government, or actually the reliable politics, we have made agreements. We were convinced that with these agreements we would also achieve a good purchasing power picture for the elderly, precisely because they deserve that recognition and appreciation. The numbers are showing something else now. I think it is reliable, and also part of the agreements we have made, that we are doing something about this now, precisely because we have written in the agreement that it must be balanced and positive for everyone. That is not a question of opening up a coalition agreement. No, that's implementing the coalition agreement. That's responding to something you see happening on the way. That's early in this coalition period, but it doesn't change the fact that we have to get to work on it. So that's the question I'm asking the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u92	We've got to get to work. If that's the way it is, the VVD is pretty sorry about this. It is also right that the VVD regrets this. But is Mrs Hermans prepared to do so, and of course we get the answer that if there are any motions, which have to be read first, to support a motion that will undoubtedly be tabled to restore the AOW for older people? And then not repair with all kinds of constructions, but just by pushing through a line and saying: we made a mistake with this, we didn't see that properly, we have been naive in this and, sorry, we're just going to reverse it. That's gonna be a lot of money for getting officials to sort things out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u93	Reliable politics is that, when you see something happening that has an effect that you don't want and that you agreed with each other that it shouldn't be the effect, you also solve it. It would be weird if I closed my eyes and said: this is on paper, this is it and we pretend nothing is wrong. I'm not, on the contrary. My aim is to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands gets a balanced and positive purchasing power picture. That is not the case now. We'll see, and we'll have to deal with that. But I do want the cabinet to solve it in a targeted way and I want to make sure that the money ends up where it should end up. That's what the instrument's leading for. I'm not going to commit to an instrument right now, but I'm going to commit to the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yeah, and then I'm gonna quit, or I'm gonna go through my interruptions too fast. Mrs Hermans may not quite understand it. It's not just about money and purchasing power for those people. The point is that, in proverbial terms, they have been given the middle finger to them, that a line has been put through promises, that they have worked hard for 40 or 50 years to offer our country the prosperity that we now have and that they do not see, hear and feel appreciated. That alone should, in my view, be a reason to say: guys, we're just not gonna do this. If the VVD is talking about a reliable, just and serviceable government, I would now like to say as a VVD: listen, with retroactive effect we will come back to this. And: we just don't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u95	In recent years, we have had the necessary discussions about pensions, about indexing or not, about the fact that things are getting more expensive in life at all, about the health insurance premiums going up and about the climate change that is coming towards us, where everyone is wondering: what am I supposed to do and how can I pay for it? I fully understand that all of this is pressing and has an effect on people's disposable income, especially that of the elderly. If you see a coalition present an agreement that says that it wants everyone to notice it in a good way, but then the first one shows that it doesn't and that in this case the elderly are sinking through the ice, then of course I understand that this leads to unrest and that you think: hey, what's happening here, what's politics going to do? And then it comes down to reliable politics. Then it comes down to the coalition saying: "This is the agreement we made in the coalition agreement. This is the starting point that we have formulated with each other and then we have to solve it now."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u96	I think we should not talk about "the bottom of the labour market," because who are they? Those are the people who deliver our packages, even in times of corona. Those are the garbage collectors. Those are the cleaners. These are indispensable people and those indispensable people deserve better than they are now getting from this coalition. This also applies to pensioners, because many people affected by the decoupling of the AOW from the minimum wage are therefore excluded from the minimum wage. And then I read in this agreement that the AOW is being decoupled and that the legal minimum wage is going up a bit, but also that wealthy and polluters are being released with fear. In fact, they also get douche bags. Yeah, then I'm really worried. When you talk to people on the streets, it's all about growing inequality. This cabinet does nothing about that and that is a political choice. So I have a very simple question for Mrs Hermans: are you prepared to allow wealthy people and polluters to contribute to what is important to us all, so that work will indeed pay again, so that pensioners can actually get it better and so that we do not have to spend time here with you on purchasing power issues? A simple question, a simple answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u97	I am going to answer this question, but perhaps about what Mrs Ploumen started with: the bottom of the labour market. Actually, I totally agree with her. Actually, that's a bad term. It's about people doing work and getting the minimum wage for that. And we think that this should be increased, step by step, by that 7.5%. We do that to make it more rewarding, but also to give more appreciation and recognition to that work, which is so super important that it can run every day. So that's for starters. Then your question about the choices you make. I think that in this coalition agreement we make a lot of different choices about where you cost and where you place burdens. And there is also a very, very big task for companies and also for polluters. The companies really need to deliver. We ask them, I might say, to make the greatest contribution to the whole climate objective that we have discussed with each other. There is a CO levy on this: if they do not deliver, they will pay extra. That also makes perfect sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u98	Of course, that's not really an answer to the question I asked. I note that polluters, as it is called, are 'not on the line'. For wealthy people, it only gets better. It gets easier to borrow money from your own e.g. The wealthy and the polluters, who should make a greater contribution. That's a political choice. This cabinet is making a different choice and it is important to highlight it, because the whole agreement is full of words that I can support. For example, this is a connection, something the Prime Minister was also talking about. But the bottom line is that everyone's in trouble, while the economy is growing and the capitalists aren't asking for anything extra. And again my question to Mrs Hermans: are you prepared to really tackle this inequality and ensure that pensioners get what they are entitled to and that everyone is making progress and not just the most rich among us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u99	I have already said a lot of things about that balanced and positive purchasing power picture for everyone. In the figures of the CPB and the Nibud, the elderly in particular are really sinking through the ice and I do not think that is possible. That also does not reflect what we agreed in the coalition agreement. In the same CPB transfer, you also see that the highest incomes are no longer in the plus and they were still in the coalition agreement. You have not heard me say once that I would also like to suggest from the cabinet that it be repaired, and you will not hear that from me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u100	Finally, Mr President. Mrs Hermans makes a firm commitment here that no one should be in the way. This seems to us to be a sensible starting point when the economy grows. That's what I just said. Mrs Hermans should have known earlier, as it was warned earlier and inflation increased. Anyway, she now feels that purchasing power is going to be repaired. I'd really like to hear from her how she's gonna do that. I would also like us to put that off in this debate and not put it forward again, because that is what everyone is waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u101	I understand that question very well in itself. How are we gonna fix that and how are we gonna fix that? I'm gonna name a thought that lives with us. We will ask the Cabinet to look at that idea. But I'd like to give you one win warning in advance. I am not going to pin myself down in this debate on one route, on one instrument or on one means, precisely because I think that a cabinet still needs to work out a number of things, which must be done quickly, and I will say something about that too, and we still need to get the final estimate of the CPB. I want to be sure that we are above all achieving the goal that we have in mind and that we have agreed in the coalition agreement. I hope you support that. I'm gonna tell you what you might be thinking about, and I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to look into it, but I'm not gonna commit to it on one route right now. One of the things that we are thinking about is further raising the elderly discount, but I realize that you may then have to deal with cashing problems. Another option I would like to mention is the IOAOW. Perhaps we can do something with that to repair the purchasing power of the elderly. I ask the Cabinet if it can take these two routes with it in preparing the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u102	Of course, it is good that there is an agreement, but there are a lot of concerns, not only in the Chamber but also outside, for example by different bodies and economists. They indicate that a lot of plans are not yet concrete and very unclear. The PBL has given even more reflection in the area of climate than a pass-through, because the plans are not sufficiently coherent and concrete. I understand that this is part of the agreement, but it's hard to wait. We have sent questions about the climate with other parties. Of the 55 questions, the answer to 44 questions has returned: we have to give further details; we will come back to that. But these are challenges that can't wait. I wonder what period Mrs Hermans will take to ensure that these effects become concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u103	That is a very justified point by Mr Dassen. I noticed exactly the same thing and raised questions in my group. One of the questions I wanted to put to the cabinet in my speech is about this, but I am asking them because I share the point you are making. I would like to get a schedule from every government member in the cabinet for what we can expect when, because I think it is important that we as a Chamber should not only be able to steer the content, but also when something comes. We can then, for example, push forward something or speed it up by putting directors behind us. We often do not know this and we do not see when the plans will be drawn up. I'd like to get it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u104	I am glad to hear that Mrs Hermans supports this and that it should be done as soon as possible, but I would like to hear from Mrs Hermans in concrete terms what the deadline is for that to happen. Is that in three months, two months or a month? When's fast enough? We've had to wait 12 months and we've got three more years. At least if we assume the cabinet is out of the way. What time limit is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u105	I am talking purely about a planning which explains in time what we get when. As far as I'm concerned, we should be able to have that here in three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u106	I have a second question. Mr Rutte talks about positive forces. He wants the cabinet to work with these positive forces both within the Chamber and outside the Chamber to solve the challenges. I really wonder who these positive powers are and how they are taken into account in the rapid effects. Are those also the people who are rightfully angry in Groningen, because the gas is being turned back on? Are those the people in child care, who are now seeing cuts being made again? Are those the parents of the premium affair, who have been pissed off in this cabinet for years? So I wonder what kind of Mrs Hermans are these positive forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u107	You ask me who the cabinet is going to involve in the elaboration. I'd really like to leave that question to the cabinet. But if I look at it myself, of course, we also have things written down in the agreement, and it is precisely all the groups that you are now referring to. I refer to municipalities and provinces, but above all I would like to stress this: all those people who work in the implementation, whether they are in government, police, youth care or education. I think we can make the big difference by talking to them, hearing what's going on there, hearing how the things that we have come up with here are working out, and taking that into account in how we make policies. I think we're gonna make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u108	Sure. Together with experts, with people in society, we can make that difference. But precisely because there are such large pots of money, we have also received the warning that people are going to go there who have very different intentions in spending that money. We have seen more often, as with the dividend tax and the coco affair, that companies, organisations that can pay a lot of lobbyists, actually have greater access to power and thus have more influence on the way the money is spent. I wonder how Mrs Hermans wants to ensure that this is done, especially since the General Court has said that the funds are actually excluded from parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u109	I have also seen that criticism from the Court of Auditors. That is precisely what should not be done and what should not be done, as we have written down in the coalition agreement. It says: the Minister of Finance ensures efficiency and effectiveness, and there must be strong parliamentary control. Those funds must therefore be set up in such a way as to allow for this rigorous parliamentary control. I fully agree with you that this money needs to be spent in order to tackle the problems that exist, and to achieve the goals and ambitions that we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u110	I'm glad to hear this, but I'm genuinely concerned about that. Of course, the Minister of Finance is going to supervise this, and I am confident that she will do so in the right way, but the funds will be placed outside parliamentary control. I wonder how Parliament can control that. Maybe there'll be an answer tomorrow. I will also put this question in my own contribution later. I have another question about reality. The CPB has indicated that the bill for many of the current expenditure is being passed on to future generations. That's a concern I have. Of course, we are also tackling climate problems for future generations and investing in education for future generations, but in the end these problems have also been created because we have not addressed them for too long. The major expenditure that is currently being incurred must not end up on the plate of those future generations. Mr Segers and Mr Jetten tabled a motion two years ago to introduce a generation test in major political agreements. I wondered if Mrs Hermans would support any motion by Volt to allow the cabinet to carry out a generational test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u111	I certainly do not say no to that in advance, because I too, just as Mrs van der Plas said, believe that we should take a serious look at every proposal made here by a colleague. This also applies to this case, precisely because I think it is important, the VVD considers it important, that we maintain this financial solidity in the long term. That is precisely why we made the corresponding agreements in the agreement. That starts with a good and rigorous control of the expenditure that this cabinet is going to do, just in the regular budgetary system but certainly also in those funds. It must, of course, be carried out within parliamentary controls and with Parliament's eyes on it. That makes sense, and that's what we wrote down. The Delta Fund and the Mobility Fund are good examples of this. If a generation test can also help to tighten that control, I am in principle in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u112	That's not a firm commitment yet. I regret that, because we have now seen in other accounts that the results are different from those initially foreseen by the VVD with this agreement. Take the calculations of the Nibud that came out today. I really hope that Mrs Hermans will consider this, precisely to ensure that this coalition agreement brings the maximum for all people in society and therefore also for future generations. The last question is more about climate change. The PBL has indicated that they have actually given more reflection than they have been able to pass on, because there is still little concrete and coherent. But they have also indicated that we are not going to achieve the climate objectives with these agreements. Germany has said that it will also introduce a climate test to ensure that all the legislation, all the regulations we make here, are checked against our objectives. I was wondering if Mrs Hermans, since she states that climate for the VVD is now a very important point, we are absolutely pleased to hear that and we are also pleased to hear that, because we want to go along with it to make sure that we are actually going to make that change in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u113	Those climate agreements we have made must be met; we must achieve the goals. In my opinion, the PBL says that we have set a sharp target, but it is feasible if we do everything and get to work quickly. It is precisely for this reason that I would also like to receive the Minister for Climate Policy's planning in this case. Now I'm starting to talk and I just lost the second part of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u114	That was about the climate test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u115	Sorry, the climate test. In the coalition agreement, we also agreed that we should continue to measure and monitor progress in implementation. So that's already happening. We've already agreed on that. I think we should do the same, because that is the way to see if we are going in the right direction and if we are on our way to achieving our goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u116	I hope that Mrs Hermans, after all these fine words, will also take action immediately and will ensure that we actually reach those agreements. These are agreements we have already made in Europe. The Netherlands is not very far-reaching in this respect, especially since countries such as Denmark and Germany already have much larger targets. But I really hope that you will go along with this and that we can make this agreement even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u117	As I said, I am going to look at both the proposal on the generation test and the proposal on the climate test, of course, if it is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u118	Mr Azarkan van DENK, and then Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Simons and Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u119	As a member of that constructive opposition, I have a point, something that bothers me. I can hear the colleagues nodding in agreement. But something's bothering me. That's what I'm gonna do. Mrs Hermans says that we have had to compromise. I just don't get it. I do not understand how these compromises were made, when I look at what the parties had included in their own plans and the transfer of the CPB. The VVD said we're spending 4 billion more. The CDA said we're spending 8 billion. D66 said we're spending 10 billion. And the Christian Union said we're spending 16 billion. And now this cabinet comes to 29 billion. I don't understand how you'll compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u120	I had to switch for a moment when you mentioned constructive opposition and then said compromises didn't understand. You're making a deal. You sit around each other's tables and watch: what are the problems this country is facing? What do we have to formulate an answer to? What are we, this generation of politicians, obliged to future generations to solve and work with in this country? And yes, we are spending more than we have written in our election programme. However, we remain within bands that we as a VVD are really talking about here on behalf of the VVD, and which we can account for and also find realistic when we look at the questions that lie ahead, the economic situation and how we stand at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u121	That's not true at all. That's kind of my wonder point. I actually think it's unfair politics, too. Let me explain to you why. Most of the parties here have put their election program through. It had all the plans in it. The VVD says that we wanted an intensification on the government side of 4 billion, but we got convinced; it's going to be 29 billion. That wasn't in any election program. What is now being issued by this cabinet is almost 65% more than what the party that wanted to spend most, the Christian Union, had in it. I think it is really unfair that the voter has never been able to speak on this issue. We see that the general government deficit, which would be around 2% on average in all electoral programmes, is close to 3%. We see that the feasibility balance, which would rise most at D66, is now incredibly higher than in any other election programme. I think that's really unfair. I hope Mrs Hermans recognizes that. The voter has not been able to comment on a programme with an intensification of 29 billion with a structural deficit of 2.7% to 3% and a sustainability debt. Let me just say this: the Christian Union kept a story every year about Joseph's grain barn. I liked that story. Mr. Bruins did a great job. But you plunder that granary, and not just that of this generation; if the CPB is right, you also plunder that of all subsequent generations. That's not a responsible fiscal policy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u122	It is undoubtedly true that this cabinet is spending a lot of money and that it is investing in a number of very important issues that this country is facing, from security to education, nitrogen, climate and infrastructure. I'm sure I'm forgetting a few of them now. I also mention the strong government and the implementing organisations. In my view, these are all legitimate investments that are needed to make this country more able to pass on to future generations, including in terms of finance. Because we have just made the agreement to ensure that you see that nod in the expenditure we make, in the balance and in the deficit, and that we stay within the margins and within the European agreements we have made. And yes, I see in the CPB overbook that a hugely high public debt is projected out of my mind, I say: in 2060............................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is a sovereign debt that we, of course, are never going to accept, but that is a sovereign debt in which the CPB makes a number of assumptions, namely that we are going to carry on indefinitely all the expenditure on nitrogen and climate that this cabinet does for a period of ten to fifteen years. So it's not. A number of reversals that we have included in the agreement are not included. How these finances develop and what they do for debt and the deficit, we will keep a very close eye on them. You will hear the VVD in every debate about this. I am going to say something about what we are going to test the cabinet's proposals, but I also think that we, as politicians, have a responsibility to make choices to solve problems. If this means that we are also investing and that at the end of this cabinet period we have a slightly higher debt than we had previously put in our programme, I take this responsibility, precisely to take the necessary steps in relation to the problems of the climate, of nitrogen and our nature and of investing in the quality of our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr Azarkan's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u124	I did not receive an answer to my observation that the voter was unable to express his opinion on this matter. I find that really unfair, because if you accept the CPB rules, I find it really lame to say: the CPB is calculating something; that does not come out of what we have thought and that is why we find it a bit difficult and we are going to question it. I don't think that's fair. The mathematicians calculate with certain models. That's what we do in the election programs. That's what voters can say. Once again, I do not understand what the compromise is and what it is. The VVD said she wants to step up 4 billion. That problem of nitrogen has not become so big within a year that it has to be dealt with differently by 29 billion; that is the amount if you take the other investment. Of the problem we have as a society, the Christian Union indicated: we need 16 billion, and that is what we want. The other parties said they wanted 8 billion, 10 billion or 4 billion. Then there's some kind of touring contest with overdoing and then you get to 29 billion. I just don't understand that. I do not understand what that is about, and I think this is really unfair, because this means that other parties, including the opposition, could have been able to count differently and come up with plans. That's why I think this is unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u125	I am not questioning a model in any way. I would just like to point out where the difference is between how the cabinet or government has put a number of expenditures in time in the coalition agreement and how they are passed on in the CPB model. The second point is that financial soundness remains an important point. It is precisely for this reason that you can read in the financial annex of the coalition agreement what our financial agreements and frameworks are and also how we are going to deal with windfalls, if they are there, and how we want to pay off public debt more. Looking at the total picture of where our country is now standing, the tasks we stand for and the frameworks we then agreed on, I find this a story to sell. That is what I stand for, and I take the responsibility for getting to work on these problems and getting to work on this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u126	Mrs Hermans points out that she finds it rather annoying that these so-called "reverses" to the care that is, of course, just Hague jargon for austerity have not been taken away by the CPB. I think that is a bit striking, because in the previous debate here, the coalition parties got very angry at me because the SP had said that savings were being made in healthcare. That was "absolutely not true"; there was "no cuts." Now Mrs Hermans herself says that she hates the fact that some of the cuts have not been passed on. In the meantime, everyone has been able to see that there are significant cuts in healthcare, because in addition to the cuts that have not been taken into account by the Central Planning Bureau, a number of cuts have been taken into account by the Central Planning Bureau. We are talking about tough cuts in healthcare, EUR 400 million in our nursing homes and EUR 0.5 billion in our youth care. I ask Mrs Hermans how she manages to cut back on our vulnerable elderly and vulnerable young people, for example under the heading of climate, at a time when billions of people are going to go everywhere, where great capacities are not being addressed and where billions of subsidies are being allocated to businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u127	This period invests the cabinet in care, in pandemic preparedness. We're in a pandemic, in a corona crisis. It's been said a few times. It is important that we make a number of investments to ensure that we get through this crisis and are prepared for it in the future. We are spending more on care in the coming years, both in hospitals and in nursing homes, because there will also be more demand for care. I understand. That makes sense. These expenses can be explained. At the same time, it is our responsibility to ensure that care remains available in the future, remains of the same quality as today and remains affordable for everyone in this country. This coalition takes responsibility for making care future-proof. We are taking a number of measures to this end. We are making a number of choices to ensure that the increase is less steep than it would go without the measures. That's the choice we make. That's the responsibility we take. That is precisely what we do to maintain care and quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u128	I'll object to this. As Members of Parliament, we have only a very limited number of interruptions. We're only allowed to ask eight questions. I am not asking Mrs Hermans about total healthcare expenditure. I just pointed out to her that she was getting very angry earlier in the debate, because the SP was not allowed to say that cuts would be made, but now she herself says that she is upset that certain cuts are not being passed on. I specifically ask her for a tough cut that has been passed on, namely the one on nursing home care again, which amounts to EUR 400 million and the one on youth care of EUR 0.5 billion. Mrs Hermans does not answer that. I would therefore like Mrs Hermans to take that up, regardless of the fact that it is going to get rid of my interruptions, because I also have a follow-up question. So I don't need a story about pandemic preparedness or care costs in 2060. Where do you get it from and how do you manage to cut this period so much on our vulnerable elderly and vulnerable young people? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u129	We've invested a lot of extra money in the nursing homes over the last few years. I also agree with that, because we saw that it was not good in terms of quality in the previous elections. Then there was a quality framework with a very strict staffing standard. That's what extra money came for. That money is now being spent in nursing homes. But we face a very big challenge in health care, which applies to a lot of sectors, but you are specifically asking for care, so I am focusing on this now to ensure that we have sufficient staff there in the future. If you are fully calculating the number of people needed to work in health care later, it is quite frankly very much the question whether we will be able to do so. This puts pressure on the agreements contained in the quality framework. I think we should discuss how we are going to ensure that we can continue to provide good and loving care in nursing homes if the people, the hands, we need to meet the staff standard are not there. How can we provide care in another way? How can we be innovative in that? How can technology help us to replace the care that does not necessarily have to be done by people themselves and to ensure that the care that you really need a nurse or caregiver for can also continue to be provided by them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u130	There was also a question about child care. Mrs Marijnissen mentioned the cuts in youth care. She wanted a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u131	Sure. In the case of youth care, the same kind of issue actually applies. We are also going to spend extra money on this in the coming years. That is also right, as you can see, in particular, that young people who need specialised youth care, who really have serious problems, are too long on a waiting list, have to wait too long for care. That's a problem we need to solve. We need to talk to municipalities about this in order to give young people the care they need. We have also seen in recent years that there has been a huge growth in youth care in forms of care that we can ask ourselves: is that really youth care? Can we slow that down a little bit? How can we shape this in a more effective and efficient way? That's the job we stand for in youth care. That is the task we agreed on in the coalition agreement. How do we ensure that with that extra money that very vulnerable children can help and support? How do we ensure that we reform in such a way that the large group of children who may need a little care or support will also receive it, but that this does not swallow up the capacity and everything for those very vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u132	This can't be happening. In my opinion, Mrs Hermans explains very well why extra investment is needed in health care. Indeed, because the workload in the nursing homes is already hugely high. We can all remember the pajama days, the forced incontinence material that people have to wear in nursing homes because there is not enough staff to take people to the bathroom. There has indeed been a very hard struggle for this standard of personnel, for example by us and by other parties here in the Chamber, by Hugo Borst, Carin Gaemers and also by others, especially the caregivers themselves. I find it really incredibly antisocial to say to those people now, and with that to the elderly in the nursing home: you know what, do it with fewer staff. Because that's the outcome of that. You can nod, but also in the CPB overbooking it literally says that this is going to lead to less and/or worse care, so you can't go around that anymore? Less and/or worse care in our nursing homes. At a time when the economy is booming and there are billions of them everywhere, you say: you know what, in the nursing homes they can handle it with a little less staff. That's unbelievable, isn't it? Then we go to social services, because that is the same thing. For years, municipalities have fought for a decent budget for youth care. Recently, for the first time in our national history, there has even been a strike of youth care workers. These people do not quickly abandon their young people, because that is how it feels to them. But they thought: this can no longer be done; we must act. In the end, after all sorts of procedures, there has been a statement that more money has to be sent to the municipalities to organise youth care properly. And what are you doing? You say, "You know what, we're gonna take off half a billion more." That's not just antisocial, that's irresponsible. Not only do we think so, but also the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. This means that, unfortunately, more and better youth care is needed in the near future. That's what you take away from those vulnerable young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u133	Starting with the nursing homes. What the CPB warns us about, of course, we must avoid. I just want us to be realistic about the fact that it is already very complicated to get enough staff. This will not be easier in the years to come. So we are faced with the task of ensuring that we can continue to provide care in the nursing homes. That's the point I wanted to make. Then we'll talk about social services. In the coming years, extra money, big extra money, will go to youth care. In order to make the right choices and to continue to take good care of them, I believe that we should be open and working on how to make it better. How can we reform it in such a way that we organise care for young people in a good way, especially for those most vulnerable? This cabinet, this coalition agreement, has the ambition to do so with 500 million less. The coalition agreement sets out a number of options, ideas. I have to say, I'm told. It now comes to the impact. I ask the cabinet: work that out and prove how to call this austerity, I shouldn't really call it that, hey, that EUR 500 million less can be done. In doing so, I would like to call on municipalities: please come to the table and discuss this with the cabinet, in the interest of caring for vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u134	I am pleased that Mrs Hermans herself has now acknowledged that they are cuts and that the action in the debate last time did not make any sense by saying that there is no cuts in health care, because there is massive cuts. Mrs Hermans is doing exactly the wrong thing. We need more staff in the nursing homes. Of course, you're not going to achieve that by putting less money into it. That's the whole problem. The municipalities are quite right that they have suspended the consultation on youth care because they say that it is already very difficult, that the workload is already high, that the waiting lists are already long and that they are only rising. So we can't do it with less money. At a time when the major assets are not being tackled and billions are being spent, I would like to know from Mrs Hermans the following about this plan to cut down on nursing homes. I have not heard anyone in the election campaign about this and I have not read any election programme: although there has been such a long struggle for this staff standard, we are about to abolish it, and we are going to say to those people that it can be a bit less, we are going to cut off 400 million. I haven't read it anywhere. There's no one who brought it up in the election. So there is no one in the Netherlands who voted for it, but we will get it now. So I'd like to know who brought this idea into the coalition talks. What is the reason why you can get it into your head to take away 400 million from the nursing homes where that money is so badly needed and to take away half a billion dollars from youth care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u135	This coalition has entered into negotiations and has looked into the questions that lie ahead. What are we gonna deal with? What are the ambitions and goals that we have to better pass on to this country? Yes, then we are also faced with high spending on care. I don't mind spending a lot of money on care because the care is important, which we have seen in the corona pandemic over the last two years. We also see where things are better and where things can be different. That is precisely what I want to achieve to ensure that our concern remains of this quality. But we also have a responsibility to ensure that care remains affordable, that we also keep the money in this country to spend on police, security and education. You can shake 'no', Mrs Marijnissen, but if you conclude a coalition agreement there are also these kind of difficult choices. I stand for it and I go for it, but I fully agree with you that care in nursing homes should remain at the level. Where we see that the number of people working in nursing homes is already under pressure because the labour market is a major issue for all these issues, it is up to us to have the debate here on who we can help and how we can come up with proposals to ensure that we maintain that care in those nursing homes. Because I agree with you that the workload is too high. I agree with you that it should be reduced, especially in order to organise more time for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u136	Last interruption, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u137	Mrs Hermans does not agree with me at all, because if she agreed with me, she would not be able to get EUR 400 million out of there. That's the problem. We can discuss the cost of care here. We've done that a million times. As SP, we have so many times put forward proposals to reduce costs in healthcare, to reduce waste, to tackle unnecessary bureaucracy, to tackle the expensive system, and that leads to a lot of bureaucracy and wrong incentives, to tackle the benefits in healthcare, to tackle the big profits in the pharmaceutical industry. There's a lot of waste of money to fight in health care. We have all kinds of ideas about this, but I cannot find them in the coalition agreement, not even a start on it. What I do find is a very antisocial austerity. I wonder how you are going to explain to those people in the nursing home that they should only do it with fewer colleagues, if you know that it is already the case that people are often taken out of bed late and have to be put back to bed early because there are simply too few colleagues. And indeed, Mr. Rutte mentioned that in his government statement, one of the biggest challenges is: how do we keep working in care attractive? Well, I can tell you, Mrs Hermans, not by cutting back on that concern. No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mrs. Marijnissen, we keep care attractive by working on that workload. We keep the concern attractive by introducing the initiative proposal that GroenLinks and the VVD are working on as soon as possible, namely that nurses get a vote on the board. We keep care attractive by organising more flexibility in the scheduling of nurses and caregivers. And we keep the concern attractive by talking to each other in this room a little proud about those wonderful things that happen in nursing homes, hospitals and disability care. Because that is the look we have on the Netherlands and on young people who are now on the school benches and are about to choose what their further education will be. I very much hope that many young people will choose to work in healthcare. But then it is also up to us to talk about our concerns with a little pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u139	There are still a number of interruptions. I am looking at Mrs Simons, because I think Mr Klaver wanted to interrupt on this point. Is it okay if Mr. Klaver comes first? Then we have Mr Klaver, Mrs Simons, Mr Paternotte, Mrs Ouwehand, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Eerdmans. Not Mr Eerdmans, I hear. I would like to make a point after that, so that Mrs Hermans can finish her story. Then we'll see if there are any points, but I think a lot has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u140	I'd also like to ask you a few questions about child care. I really want to get rid of the question: do you have to cut back or not? I'm really gonna pass that up. There are regular stories on my desk from parents who dare not go to sleep and hold their child. They are afraid that this child will be gone the next morning, because this child is threatening to end his life. Those are parents who regularly report me that they're on the phone for weeks to get the right help, and that there isn't. Just at a time, in this corona pandemic, in which our young people are having a very hard time and in which there are more mental complaints, I am very concerned about the 500 million cuts that are being made. Am I saying that there can never or never be a austerity? No, but there's no plan underneath now. So it's said "we're going to cut 500 million" without knowing how you really want to change the system. My specific question is therefore the following. Please take that cut off the table and start with the content. First go see how we can strengthen and improve the system. If it turns out at the bottom of the line that we can do it more efficiently and that money is left, then we can put it in other places. But if, in the end, it turns out that more money might be needed, you should also be open to it. We've been talking about a new governance culture for so long. As far as I am concerned, that starts with the content and not with the budget. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u141	The examples mentioned by Mr Klaver are precisely about the heavy, specialised youth care that I was talking about, and I also think that many young people should wait far too long for them to do so. You paint the picture of parents who are afraid to go to sleep because of the fear that might happen in the night. That's terrible. That needs to change quickly. That is precisely why I think it is right that we should invest extra money in youth care in the coming years. That is precisely why I thought it was so good to read that, despite the fact that the municipalities have said that they are no longer talking to the Empire, the organisations working in the specialised youth services have said to each other: we will continue to talk about the content in working groups working on the reform agenda, because that content must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u142	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u143	I shall now turn to Mr Klaver's question. I'm getting to the money now. I agree with Mr Klaver: you start with the content. At the same time, there is also a financial issue, including in the long term. In this coalition agreement we have written down a number of options that you can look at to do a number of things better and more efficiently, but above all better, in youth care. They didn't wear off. I would say, along the lines of Mr Klaver's content, that cabinet, shows the Chamber, the municipalities and the youth care organizations how to develop those points of substance in order to achieve that amount, what that would look like. Proof that this can be completed in this way. Maybe you'll come to other measures. It could be. But go prove that and talk to the congregations about it. That is precisely why my appeal to municipalities was: please go back to the conversation and please come to the table, precisely because we need to take better care of those most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u144	The words are really much more friendly than in the previous period, but this is exactly what is always done politically here. There's a cut in the budget. It is said that this is the amount we have to get. And this is something that municipalities can talk about, and we can talk about here in Parliament. That's where my objection lies. That is why I understand very well that municipalities say: figure it out; we do not come to the table. There has been a ruling from the Arbitration Committee that this amount is added and we are going to talk about the content first. I think, in all honesty, that I am asking an extremely reasonable question here. I'm not saying there could never be any savings. I would never say that here, in any policy area. All I'm asking you to do is start with the content. You are now starting with a 500 million cut. This spring there will be elections in the municipalities. Then new plans must be made. If there's just a cut in the books, municipalities are going to anticipate that. And before there's a system change! If you look at how youth care works now, you'll see that there's gonna have to be cuts for the next few years. There's my big concern, because there are already huge waiting lists. If we're serious about doing something for these parents, we're gonna get rid of that cut-off right now. You just said, almost between the nose and the lips: we also have a financial task. That's true. But then I say, let us make other choices in this debate. I'm willing to find other cover for this, but we're not going to take this away from the perhaps most vulgar group in this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u145	In the coming period extra money will go to the municipalities and from a moment on slightly less than was advised by the Committee of Wise Men. The coalition agreement contains a number of proposals why the coalition believes that this is possible. I ask the Cabinet to back that up, to explain why it thinks so. I would like to put that question to the Secretary of State for the United States of America through the Prime Minister. I think you're gonna go along the content line and see where there are possibilities. I put the burden of proof on the cabinet to give effect to that. That's what I'm asking the cabinet. As far as I am concerned, this must be done quickly. I fully agree with Mr Klaver that we need to have a quick look at this, so that everyone can see what this will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mrs Ploumen also had an interruption on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u147	In recent years, youth care has been a major concern for all of us, especially for municipalities, as they see how vulnerable young people are getting into trouble. You'd think it would be a wise decision of a cabinet to invest extra in youth care. But what does the Cabinet do? It's just a cut-off: 500 million off. This not only causes many young people and people working with young people to worry, but also that the municipalities do not want to sit at the table anymore. And then Mrs Hermans insists on this: the burden of proof in the cabinet, more less, extra days, something off. 500 million is being cut. That's unacceptable. There's plenty of money. Other choices can be made. We need to get rid of this austerity. The same applies to nursing care. If I were 75 now, I would really look at this debate with fear and trembling. Because my AOW is no longer going to take the legal minimum wage, gas prices are going to go up, inflation is going to go down and nursing care is being cut further. The CPB says of this: the 400 million cuts lead to less and less good care. I don't think you should go through with it, and I'm not the only one. Let me ask you once again: remove the 500 million cut in youth care and remove the 400 million cut in nursing care. That's what our elders deserve, and that's what all those young people who are so in trouble deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u148	There's more money going to municipalities, but a little less than asked. If we call that "sustaining," then it will be a very complicated debate. I agree with Mr Klaver that something needs to be done in the field of youth care, particularly in the specialised youth care sector, where it is really about those most vulnerable children. I therefore also welcome the fact that extra money goes to municipalities. At the same time, I have just said how I feel that we should look at the 500 million and, in general, at the healthcare sector. We need to think about how we deal with the staff shortage, the labour market issue that is so widespread, whether it be in nursing homes, hospitals, youth care or disability care. I think this is an obligation for this coalition, but I hope that we will be able to move in with the whole Chamber and also encourage the cabinet to hear what proposals it is going to make for this. If I get a chance to finish my input in a moment, I hope I can also highlight some things. In the interruptions by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Klaver, it was about youth care and nursing care. I see that there are a number of complicated choices in this coalition agreement. But by taking only those out, we forget to highlight whatever happens, whatever we do with this coalition agreement. We're going to invest in the climate to pass this country on cleaner to future generations. We invest in safety here in the Netherlands and in the safety of the Netherlands in the world. 'Cause there's a lot going on, literally, right now. We're going to invest in housing and housing, so there'll be houses again. So that starters, older people and young people who may not be able to click on Funda in vain can find an affordable home in a few years' time. Unfortunately, I have to say "over a number of years," because it takes some time for the construction production to get going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'm going to see Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u150	I was also going to ask you a few questions about child care. I am very pleased that Mr Klaver and Mrs Ploumen have done so, because there is another group that deserves extra attention. That's the group of people with disabilities. The same applies to them as to the people who need child care. They, too, have a structural deterioration in their financial performance, but above all in terms of the conditions that should make their lives easier in a world that is totally out of place to take them into account. I hear Mrs Hermans say that this agreement is about looking after each other. How are they supposed to describe this wonderful title of this agreement, if it turns out in practice that they are declining in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u151	I have to guess what Mrs Simons is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mind if I make it easier, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u153	Yes, Mrs Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u154	Perhaps the Wajongers and the WIA are making it a little more concrete for Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u155	I think Mrs Simons is referring in particular to the Wajong discount. Well, then, let me make it explicit. This cabinet is doing something about that, too. You should see this in the context of the discussion that the debate on the interruption started with me. How are we going to ensure a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for everyone, and for this group in particular? Like Mrs Simons, I am deeply concerned about this group. When I was a spokesperson, I had a lot of conversations, visited and talked to people who were in the Wajong, also about what you asked: how do you come into this society, which sometimes goes very fast and asks a lot of you? They make a wonderful contribution and can sometimes make even more than they do now. Good. Well, let's get specific to your question. Yeah, there's a discount on the Wajong in the deal. But with the increase in the minimum wage, they still have a plus in their wallet and their disposable income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u156	That would be the case if the paper reality always corresponds to the living reality. What strikes me in general about this agreement is that there seems to be a huge discrepancy between the reality from which we leave and the desired world. We're not leaving from a neutral position. It is not the case that most people who are now in the Wajong deserve a full minimum wage and thus benefit from raising that minimum wage. This will produce a nice calculation at the CPB on paper, but in practice it does not mean anything for this group. In general, that's kind of my concern about this agreement. I hear Mrs Hermans answering my question again: how are we going to do that? My question is, how are we going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u157	I'm not aware of another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u158	Maybe it wasn't another question, it was a repeat of the question. I ask Mrs Hermans how this group should indicate this discount when it comes to looking after each other, an active emancipation policy and ensuring that everyone can participate. The minimum wage goes up in very small steps and over a longer period, but not all Wajongers will benefit from it. That certainly doesn't apply to those who don't start at 0, but to -50. Mrs Hermans knows that, because she was a spokesperson of concern, she made all these visits and had all those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u159	That is exactly why we made the agreements in the coalition agreement as we made them. This group, too, had to be given a fair position in this positive and balanced image. They're good at the plans we've put on paper. But I agree with you that, exactly as you say, things we make up here, put on paper and perhaps also through a model often do not correspond to reality and practice. This applies more widely than only to young people in the Wajong. That is exactly why I think it is so important to note the debate I had with Mr Dassen on the positive forces in society that the cabinet is having that kind of conversation. That the cabinet also talks with people in the Wajong. I think that the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions will often do so, because you want to know how the plans and ideas we have will work out in practice. You want to know in the knowledge that it's not possible to always avoid a problem for each individual case, how you can get the best picture of how something works, how something plays and how something lives in a target group, an organisation or an implementation organisation, and then set up your policy and your proposals there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u160	That sounds a bit like: we're going to figure out how we're going to solve the problems we're responsible for ourselves, and then we're going to have to do a zero measurement again. There are so many civil society organisations, in all areas, that have already had the answer. My concern is that this new cabinet thinks in different areas: we are going to have another conversation and take stock of the situation. This applies, for example, to the parents who are now dealing with a new govern ment. This applies, for example, to the Groningen people, and this also applies to agriculture. On all the domains I hear: we have to do another zero measurement. But we already know so much. These people, like any other Dutchman, deserve to be given priority now, so that they can better participate in society now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u161	In my view, we do not disagree on this because, as far as I am concerned, we do not need zero measurements. We already know a lot on a lot of subjects. There is indeed a great deal of knowledge on many subjects, as you say, among the organisations, the trade associations and so on, but also in the country, in society. That's what we see in the e-mails we get. So zero measurements, no. But we need to get that knowledge there, get it out of there, because it can help us make our decisions better. Moreover, as 150 Members of Parliament, we must also look into this knowledge in order to be able to better, sharper and more practical in our monitoring task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u162	I am very pleased with this reply from Mrs Hermans. It means that she too thinks that not only the Cabinet, but also we in the Chamber should really listen more often to the people who are actually talking about it. I look forward to doing that together. I would like to return to the debate earlier today with Mrs Hermans for a moment. The agreement contains the following sentences: "We want everyone in the Netherlands to be free. Free to be who you are. Free from discrimination and racism." "That is why we are pursuing an active policy of emancipation and anti-discrimination." "A democratic society can only function if we draw a line when the freedoms of the other are threatened, if everyone participates and if discrimination is combated. For gay hatred, anti-Semitism, Muslim hatred, misogyny, (online) sexual exploitation, honor vengeance, genital mutilation.....and so on, all equally important, but for the sake of time I take it for a while in "...is no place in our society." I was very pleased to see Mrs Hermans take a firm stand this morning when some of these things took place right here in this Chamber. Nevertheless, I still want to discuss with her what we can do. If we say here as a Chamber that we do not accept companies that do so, when we say that we as a government do not do business with it, when we say that we must change criminal law on this point, when we say that we are going to draw up a multi-annual plan to combat all forms of discrimination, hatred and racism, and that we are going to act against organisations that are guilty of discrimination or racism, just as we are going to do for the people at home who do not have the document in front of them with fines and a duty to report discriminatory acts...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u163	And your question, specifically, about Mrs Hermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u164	My question is as follows. Mrs Hermans and I share, if my impression is correct, the frustration at the fact that this is happening on the assembly line here in the Chamber. In all honesty, I would like to discuss with Mrs Hermans what we can actually do about it. Political organisations are also organisations. There is an enormous breadth of things that can be said in this Chamber, but there are limits to that too. Does Mrs Hermans perhaps have a concrete idea about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u166	This is indeed a subject that has unfortunately already taken place in this debate today. You list a whole list of measures and actions that this coalition has said: at least we must do so. And: these are the things we can do to limit discrimination and racism, which unfortunately is still part of this society. You ask what we, as politicians, can do with 150 Members of Parliament. I think that's exactly what we did this morning. We should do that more often. When we hear it, when it is said, we have to stand up, we have to speak out against it and we have to set a limit. For example, we give an example to the Netherlands, to society, to what we think is normal and not normal and how we deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u167	This example brings me to another chapter in the agreement: integration and integration. At some point it is said that integration is a reciprocal process. Then we see a list of what we expect from the newcomer. When it comes to a reciprocal process, I wonder where I can read what we, as a Dutch society, are going to do to promote this integration. I would ask this specifically in the light too, and not just because of the xenophobic idea here in the Chamber, of the exemplary role that we have, as Mrs Hermans rightly said, and that what we tolerate here is very difficult to reject or sanction in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u168	I'm just looking for the question. It's about reciprocity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u169	It was a two-fold question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yeah, exactly. I do think it's a reciprocal thing. People come to our country to live and live here. We expect them to respect and behave accordingly the freedoms and values that we consider important. But we also ask of us, of you, of me, of everyone in the Chamber and of everyone in society, that we be open to the other to have him or her integrated as well. I don't know if you can say that, but I hope you understand what I mean by this. This can be done in many ways, and this can occur in many situations. That's all I care about. We'll ask something from the other. That's what I think is right. I think it is important to cherish and protect the freedoms we have here. That is what we did this morning in the debate. I'm afraid that was necessary, but then you will. But it also means that we are open to the person who is integrating and that we might also help or give a tip or advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u171	Yeah, and that's my last interruption. If I understand Mrs Hermans correctly, I hear a fine intention and, above all, an appeal to people to be open to it. I find it significant that, if you put that reciprocity on the table in a government agreement, I do not read anywhere apart from a lot of assignments to the newcomer, such as participating in society as quickly as possible and learning the language as quickly as possible.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's not being named here, and I'm looking for it. What should we adapt in our system so that we can actually make the demands we make on others?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u172	I do not know whether I fully agree with you that this reciprocity is not there, because there is also something in the coalition agreement on anonymous application or open hearing. I realize that's only part of it. These are instruments, resources and measures. I very much believe in the word's' and that is why I have just explained how we behave, how we are open and how we sometimes want to give that tip or advice. As far as I am concerned, there is reciprocity. At least that is what I would like to fill in, as I am talking about with my group and as we would like to set an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u173	Yeah, just for a little while. I am glad that the group is aware of this and I am glad that this is felt by the people in that group. However, I do not read back about removing the barriers that now exist in the reality of the people who are entering the country, to be effective. to get to work, go to school or find a day's spending. That is not concrete enough for me. But I also have to come back to a suggestion that I have heard before in this Chamber and which I think most people think is reassuring. I'm absolutely not in favour of applying anonymously. Absolutely not. The last thing we need to do to eradicate integration and discrimination and to build mutual respect for any identity is to say to people: you are welcome, provided you leave your identity at home. Anonymous application does not solve the problem. In fact, it puts it with the marginalized person we say: you're welcome if I don't know who you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u174	And your question to Mrs Hermans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u175	That is in response to something I thought should reassure me. But it's actually a nice addition to the question that I'm actually asking for the third time: what concrete things are we going to build up within our system or break down to really take care of it... And it's very significant that people think that applying anonymously is a solution. That is precisely the crux of how we must adapt our thinking. We have to stop laying down the responsibility for solving these kinds of problems. Others call it "failed integration" - "failed integration" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure" - "failure."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u176	Are you trying to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u177	I'm taking as much time as other MPs, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u178	Sure, but I'm trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u179	I'm gonna finish it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u180	I'm just trying to help you. If you ask a specific question, I hope you will also receive a concrete answer. So I'm trying to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u181	I am extremely pleased that an opening has finally been found to talk very basically about perspectives when we talk about this kind of thing. So the perspective of the marginalized person and the perspective of the newcomer is: I can apply, but then I have to leave myself at home. If we stick that thought to the solutions needed to achieve successful integration as a reciprocal thing, then I am looking for which systems, according to Mrs Hermans, I myself will have to break down ideas about this in order to ensure that people can actually do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u182	I mentioned an instrument. You can indeed have a debate or that helps and whether that is the solution. I think it will take a lot more than just looking at it. In this agreement, for example, there are investments in education and they are really aimed at inequality of opportunity. I find it annoying and it is hard to say, but that also affects the group you are talking about, the group that often feels discriminated against and which may actually be. So, in schools, attention is paid to this in civic education, but also simply in the social sphere created at a school and in a school, I think that is an important prerequisite for this. The point I want to make is... Aborting systems makes you assume that you're breaking down an organization or an institution and then it's gone. I don't believe that. That's why I'm so worried about the reciprocal way we behave. How do we look at how we deal with each other here in this country? So how do we help someone who really wants to do their best, who works hard or who really wants to work hard? How can we help and insist that we also allow those in our society? That is what I mean by the reciprocal responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u183	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr Paternotte. Then we have Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Den Haan. Finally, Mr Azarkan has another question. Then we'll move on. This is the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u184	When I checked in an hour ago, I didn't quite realize that Mrs Hermans hadn't even started the main part of her speech. I have become curious by now, but all right: just for a moment this interruption. Otherwise, there's gonna be others behind it. I would like to go to Groningen, because on about our last working day the Minister for Economic Affairs announced that the gas tap in Groningen should be opened again. For a lot of Groningers, that was a thunderbolt in the clear sky. We saw through that torch parade what it did to a lot of people and what signal they wanted to send in that fiery way. My idea is that we have to make sure that every cube of gas that can stay underground in Groningen stays underground as well. My question is whether the VVD shares that point of departure with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u185	I share that point of view. I also share Mr Paternotte's introductory remarks. The footage of last weekend and the frustration and anger we've seen, I understand. We've talked a lot here about a trustworthy government. I think that confidence has been damaged again in the past period. I share the starting point, but at the same time I think we should also be careful what we promise. Yes, I share the goal and the agreement we made, namely that the gas extraction should go to zero. I'm totally in favour of that. Everything we can do and everything within our power to make this decision happen, we have to do. I'm just having second thoughts. In my speech, which I do have a question to ask the cabinet, but I will now put it in response to your interruption. What I find so difficult about what happened here is this. The cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber at some point in which it said something about the bumps we encounter on the way to reducing gas extraction. What could be the reason why we might not be able to walk all the way that we had invented? The delay in the construction of the nitrogen plant was included. We knew that. There was also something about security of supply and cold winters. We're in the winter now, but we haven't experienced last year's cold. The point about the contracts and the delivery to Germany was at least new to me, but maybe I missed something. That's exactly my point. I think we should be careful what we promise, but I share the starting point. I ask the Cabinet to be honest and realistic about what we can find on the way to meeting that commitment and promise. Please be clear about it in good time if there are any setbacks. They're not funny. I know we don't want to hear them in the Chamber, but I'd rather hear them in time than be robbed by them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u186	That call is very good. You shouldn't promise things that you can't be sure you can live up to later. It's true we're not talking about the gas tap in Russia. That is precisely why we need to ensure that we no longer rely on gas from abroad and why we need to make our economy more sustainable. But can we table these agreements with Germany to see if we can't do anything less? Can't we import more nitrogen if it can't get out of our factory in time? Can we not sit down with the big consumers in the Netherlands? My question is whether Mrs Hermans shares my appeal to the cabinet to do all that, to get the best out of the can, so that we can ensure that as much gas as possible can remain underground in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u187	Absolutely. I share that question and bet. We must ask the Cabinet to do everything possible to do what is within our power and what we can do to keep as much as possible, and preferably everything, underground. I want them gradually to inform us clearly and honestly about how this is going to be done and what the results are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u188	I am going to keep my question until Mrs Hermans has been able to make her full contribution, because that might help. But I went to the mini-debate on Groningen. I have to say that I can imagine that the new chairman of the VVD group said that the issue of security of supply was new to me. But the VVD was in the cabinet that has dismissed all the questions of the Chamber. That has been a very painful point. What is more important: the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen or those contracts? This has been discussed in detail. I find it painful that, at this stage, we should once again have the debate on what we could do in order to better protect safety. We tried, but the cabinet didn't give it home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u189	I just want to be specific. I knew the argument of security of supply. We've changed that a lot. I was concerned with the contracts and the agreements on delivering to Germany. That was the specific point. I call, with retroactive effect, for timely, fair and realistic communication with the Chamber. It's too late now. But it would have been much better and much better, hence my reaction to Mr Paternotte. I share that we must make every effort and that the cabinet has the commitment to find out what is possible, what is possible, to keep as much as possible, and preferably everything, underground. But if there are setbacks, please let us know, and in time! Then I still don't like it, but I prefer to hear it on time, and honestly and clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mr. Eerdmans? No? I'll take a look at Mrs. Den Haan. Then you will continue with your speech, Mrs Hermans. Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u191	However, I would like to return to the issue of care for the elderly and the care of young people. Of course, it's always a disadvantage when there are some interruptions, but that's how it works. What I think is avenging here is a lack of vision. I would like to make something clear, also from my personal experience. I'm on weekend shifts at a rehab center in a nursing home. I understand very well that the 400 million, which was actually allocated to shape a point from the quality framework, cannot be spent, because the people are simply not there. But to get rid of the money, I find that very sad. For example, during a Sunday day shift we have four people out of 28 heavy rehabilitation patients. They are very happy that I was added as the fourth to do the people in the shower, so that they have been in the shower once a week. They say, "Thank you, Sister, you've made up for my week." I think that's really sad. So I would like the 400 million to be used to see how we can make sure that these people get the care they need. The same applies to vulnerable children in child care. Mr. Klaver already indicated that there are parents sleeping next to their child to make sure that child is still there in the morning. I have that experience. That's very sad. If your child has something wrong, has heavy PTSD, and you have to wait a year for specialized care, while after five, six weeks it would actually go really well at the time that specialized care would have been there, then that is incredibly painful. To say that you want to cut 500 million and ask organisations, municipalities, how to do that, I find that really very painful, especially because, once again, the vision here is lacking. You have to start with the question: what kind of care do you want to provide? What kind of social services do you want to deliver? Then you can say that there is money going to climate to pass our world on to the next generations, but if we continue like this in youth care, then a lot of children from that next generation are gone. I really ask you: first look at a vision, then look at how much money is needed for it, and then see if that can be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u192	Such a personal story is always compelling to hear. This is exactly the form of youth care, for the most vulnerable, which I also find unacceptable when someone has to wait a year for, especially when you see that after a few weeks it is getting better. That does not mean that it is better, but that it is already better. That is why I think it is right that we should invest extra money in youth care and that there should be considerable extra money in municipalities for youth care, especially for those most vulnerable. As far as this long-term vision is concerned, I also think that we should ask ourselves the question of what exactly is and is not youth care. This is absolutely true of this example of specialised youth care for vulnerable children, but there are also forms of youth care that we should discuss with each other whether it is youth care and whether it should continue to be organised in this way and in this way. It has been the underlying idea of this coalition to make these agreements in this way. I also see that there is now a debate on this and there is doubt as to whether this can be achieved. That is precisely why I am asking the cabinet to support the way in which the 50 million can be filled in. However, I agree with Mrs Den Haan that care should be taken for those vulnerable and that these long waiting lists should be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u193	You will continue your speech. In fact, I should like to say that you are starting your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u194	Yeah, and I'll try to leave out some of what I've already said in the interruptions. I was talking about looking ahead in a complicated way while we're in that corona crisis. It's complicated, but we have to do it. It's 4:35 p.m. now. We are having a debate here on the plans of this cabinet for the Netherlands. Outside of this building, all day long, the Netherlands is going crazy in the meantime, despite all the corona restrictions. Because that is the Netherlands; that is our country. Our country revolves around the stakes of all those people who want to make something of it. At the moment, fortunately, the weather is allowed to run children over football fields, basketball fields and all kinds of other places where sports are taking place. They do so in order to lose their energy after a day at school, and they are accompanied by volunteers and supported by all kinds of other people. At the moment, a neighborhood cop walks through the neighborhood and calls to a family where they have been broken into to ask how things are going, training soldiers to be ready when their commitment to peace and security is being asked, anywhere in the world, and someone opens a letter. It's a shame that Mrs Simons isn't here right now and reads them disappointed that he or she has once again been rejected for a job, with the gnawing feeling that his or her last name may be the reason. At the moment there is plenty of boosting and testing in many locations, entrepreneurs are bent over their books and fighting to keep their heads above water, and nurses and doctors in hospitals are running out of their feet to keep going alongside all the corona care operations, chemotherapy and other important care. At the moment starters, young families and also older people are looking for that daily fifteen minutes, but unfortunately often in vain, at Funda in search of a house. Currently, a bus driver in Ter Apel starts his service and hopes not to experience any nuisance in his bus, contractors and electricians drive vans across the country to isolate roofs and install solar panels, and a daughter is deeply sad about the loss of her mother. At the moment, a lot of people are at home working in improvised workrooms, sitting at home with grandparents and grandparents, whereas Tuesday is actually their regular babysitting day. Right now people's thoughts are wandering and they're worried about how things are going with corona and all the other things that are coming towards us, and they're wondering: can I pay for it later? Mr. Chairman. For all those Dutch, I'm standing here. For them, my group has concluded this agreement. It is a group that is described in so many different ways: the middle groups, the hardworking Dutchman, the silent majority, the backbone of our society, or just all those normal, ordinary people in the Netherlands who want to make something beautiful out of it with each other. My group will continue to fight for them in the coming years. Because even though looking ahead is really difficult when the doors are closed, politics has to do it. We must look forward to the future. The issues that come to us that stand in the way of a bright future must be tackled with both hands. Think of issues such as suppressing undermining criminals, protecting our borders and our values, and strengthening our entrepreneurs and families. Then we can't just look away and think, "Well, it's gonna come." Then we cannot see that there is a problem, comment and do nothing. No, we'll have to go. Then we name the problem and we must dare to make choices and get to work. That is what we owe to the Netherlands, to ensure that all those people can live a nice and safe life, that life for future generations will be better, that we can restore that unspoken agreement, that you can live a good life here in the Netherlands and do your best to make it a step forward, and that there is a government that ensures security and security. Exactly in order to achieve this, I have negotiated over the past few months and made every effort to make good agreements. They are agreements and ambitions that sometimes extend beyond one cabinet period. Major issues such as tackling this undermining crime, limiting migration and solving the climate issue or housing shortage require a long-term approach, and investment beyond the borders of one cabinet period. In four years' time, we will be farther on some subjects than on others, but a movement must be set in motion. I realize that on the way we are going, for example, we are going to be able to find enough people to realize our ambitions, but also obstacles and opportunities that we do not know yet. We have to deal with that, and it may lead to some things taking longer and others going surprisingly fast. But today is a turning point, because we are taking the first steps towards realising our ambitions. And if it will be 2025, the end of this cabinet period, what would I be proud to be able to stand here and tell the Netherlands that we have managed to make big criminal bosses miserable, because we can track them down faster and punish them more severely, that there are more cops and detectives to fight organized drug crime, and that you can safely cross the street, in short, that we have managed to make the Netherlands even safer. And how wonderful it would be to be able to say in 2025 that all the hard-working people, all the entrepreneurs, but also all the older people, who have contributed to society for decades, have enough left each month to live a nice life. Mr. Chairman. This coalition agreement does a lot for that, of course with 3 billion relief, but we also help families in other ways: by making childcare almost free and reducing the energy tax, precisely to keep our approach to achieving our climate ambitions affordable. A great deal has been said about this. I would like to stress once again: the VVD group too is not deaf to all the unrest among the elderly and I understand very well that reports about altitude, indexing and linking are all worrying, especially if you see the income effects in the CPB pictures and today also in Nibud. Let us be clear that we agreed on a starting point for this in the coalition agreement, as I have said many times today. That is the starting point: a positive and balanced purchasing power picture for all. That's not what we're seeing right now in these wire transfers. That's what the cabinet needs to look at. I would like a reaction from the cabinet and I would like to suggest and suggest the ideas of the cabinet: how do we deal with the pictures we see now and how do we ensure that we give substance to the agreement in the coalition agreement, a balanced and positive purchasing power picture? Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the steps this cabinet is going to take, including the complicated but important migration dossier. What is also important is that we get to work on this seriously, so that, in 2025, we have been able to agree on a better common asylum policy in Europe, where we already decide at the external borders who is entitled to asylum and who is not, and so that we manage to ensure that people stop getting on those scary little boats of smugglers and make the crossing to Europe but that they are caught in the region. That reception must be decent, with a limited number of people from there being invited to Europe, to the Netherlands. That will be hard work and I also know that the Netherlands is not only in control of this. That is what we must do in Europe, with 27 Member States. If that is not possible, we must now also work on forming a leading group that can take action in crisis time. Mr. Chairman. We depend on other countries, but fortunately we can also do a few things ourselves to improve asylum policy. That is why we have made a few sharp agreements about what is going to happen in the Netherlands. We are tackling nuisances and with a robust package of measures we are ensuring that asylum seekers who have to go and can leave actually go back to their own country. Mr. Chairman. In 2025, I want to be able to say a number of other things to the Netherlands, namely that we are better prepared in health care for the whims that a pandemic brings, that we can add beds if we need them, that we can make protective equipment, such as mouth caps, closer to home, like medicines, that we see in education that the performance in mathematics, reading and writing improve, and that children at school are also prepared for everyday life and know what is expected of them in society. I would also like to say that more and more houses are isolated, whether you have bought your own house or you rent it, that there are solar panels or a heat pump, that the preparations for the construction of two new nuclear power plants are in full swing, that we are just well on the way to achieving those climate targets, that we have made agreements with many farmers in the Netherlands about their future, that our nature is better in place and that we see that there is movement on the housing market in 2025, because we are building.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u195	I'll let Mrs Hermans finish her story. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u196	That's quite a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u197	You're doubting yourself, and it's still quite a bit. I would also like to look at Mrs Ouwehand, who said she wanted to interrupt earlier. Do you mind if Mr. Wilders goes first? Okay, Mr. Wilders, PVV, and then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u198	I would like to go back to Mrs Hermans' last block when she spoke about security and immigration. Of course, it's nice what you say, but is it true? Mrs Hermans, I would like to ask you if you have any idea what your new Rutte IV cabinet will be spending on the police and asylum seekers in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u199	This cabinet invests in security and defence. That's how we invest in the police. The question of what we are spending on asylum seekers should then be made a little more specific by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u200	The question was whether you know, it is your plan, not mine, what you are spending this year and next year on strengthening the police and asylum? Do you have any idea what's in your own plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u201	This coalition's plans say we're investing heavily in security. This is on top of investments that have already been made this summer. In these investments there is money for police, for our services and for the COA and the IND to accelerate procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u202	The lady clearly doesn't know what she's signed for herself. I'll tell you. This year you signed up for EUR 50 million to strengthen the police and EUR 360 million for the higher asylum influx. If you add the IND to that, it's 400 million euros. Next year, you will spend EUR 100 million on the police and you will spend EUR 450 million again on four or five times more asylum seekers, the COA, the IND and you name it. You're talking nicely. You say here that the police should get more, but the police will get a crumb this year and next year. You spend tons of money on the higher influx of asylum seekers. Explain that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u203	If Mr Wilders read these figures, he would be delighted if he also mentioned the figures of what was added to the police force this summer. I'm gonna get another 300 million out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u204	It is total nonsense to talk about what was done earlier this year. That was the previous cabinet. I'm asking you what you've agreed to. You stand here and you say in the microphone: I am proud, because as a VVD we have invested extra in the police because the Netherlands needs to become safer. You said literally: immigration must be stricter. The CPB figures show that you are spending 400 and 500 million this year and next year on more asylum and 50 million to the police. That's not in proportion. You're not making the Netherlands safer. You're letting half the world into the Netherlands. You're just leaving the boundaries open. As you know, the previous Secretary of State lied to us by pretending that so many asylum seekers are coming that a clue was needed. What's the VVD doing, the old party of law and order? It gives a crumb to the police and it gives the COA hundreds of billions for all those asylum seekers. That's what you do. Be honest with the people at home, because they see you as someone who doesn't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u205	Higher expenditure on asylum is the result of higher influx. That is undoubtedly what Mr Wilders is trying to say. In this cabinet we have just made agreements about the higher influx. We want to get more control over who's coming to our country. For that we do depend on agreements that we can make in Europe. Yes, then Mr Wilders comes up with the easy solution to close the borders or to leave Europe. No, I'm not a politician. The VVD doesn't belong to that. So we are going to work in Europe with 27 countries to achieve this common European asylum policy. If we see that these 27 countries are not moving fast enough, then we are going to be a leading group. That's one. The second concerns what Mr Wilders said about the police. I insist that if he reads figures to me, he has to sketch the whole picture. In the debate in September, during the General Reviews, extra money went to the police, with the support of the PVV. That's structuralally extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u206	Talk, talk, talk, talk. That's what you have, but the facts are just different. You let everyone in. If we have to wait for Europe to do it, then we can wait until the end of the day. We've been waiting years since your party, the VVD, says we're doing it with Europe. Meanwhile, the asylum centres are filling up. I've been to Ter Apel. You don't want to see what's going on there. The whole village is flooded by all lucky seekers and so is the rest of the Netherlands. Again, your own VVD Secretary of State lied to the Netherlands by pretending that the municipalities were obliged to record them without legal grounds. There are so many coming in because you are waiting for Europe. The PVV indeed says: "Don't wait for Europe. That's gonna take until the end of the day." We must therefore decide our own immigration policy and not wait for Europe. We need to invest in the police. Do you know why we should invest in the police? To control all the thugs you bring into our country. I saw it. I saw it in Ter Apel, where old women were pushed out of their wheelchairs by asylum seekers and people were arrested every day in the shops. But at night they were stealing again. Women were chased and raped. All this happens in the Netherlands. And since you allow those people to clean up your mess, we need the police. You don't give butter to the fish: at least 10,000 agents and the borders close. And if you don't, talk, talk, talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr. Wilders, these oppressive asylum seekers... you've already used the word "happiness seekers." That disgusts me, too. There's got to be some serious action against that. 'Cause a bus driver can't get on the bus scared. In the grocery store you should be able to shop safely. I agree with you 100%. I also think, the VVD agrees, that we need to get more control and control over who's coming here. We will have to agree on this in Europe. But now let's talk about those lucky seekers who are here in the Netherlands. People who have come here and whom we say after a procedure that they should not be here must go back to their country. If they can go back, they have to go back. That's what this cabinet makes firm agreements about. We are making a package of measures so that we can act much harder against them. I'm in favour of that. I'll be right back with my questions to the cabinet. I want to see a schedule of what the cabinet will do when. You can rest assured that the VVD wants these actions, these measures, to come to this Parliament with priority and speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u208	If we have learned one thing, it is that at least we cannot rely on the VVD when it comes to immigration. You let everyone in and then you say they all have to go back if they're not allowed to be here. But the best thing you can do is not let them in! Anything you let in will never come out. What comes in, never comes out. That's the lesson we can learn. But about the same figures: what are you investing in the Return and Departure Service? EUR 1 million in 2022 and EUR 1 million in 2023. Again, the COA, the people who enter, is 360 million in 2022 and 298 million in 2023. And $1 million for return. Do you know why that is? Because, of course, they're not going back! They're not going back. They eat up their passports, or I know what they all do. They're not going back. The only way to make the Netherlands safer and we don't get all those scumbags and lucky seekers into the Netherlands is by not letting them into the Netherlands. You know that word, don't let it in. Write that down 100 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u209	We need to control the number of people coming to the Netherlands. We need to get a better grip on that. I have just said that to Mr Wilders. There are people here in the Netherlands now. Those are just agreements that apply internationally. I know that Mr Wilders is not interested at all, but the VVD is a party that does abide by treaties and agreements that we have made legally. So these people have applied for asylum here and have to go through procedures here. Those procedures need to be speeded up. That's why we're investing in the IND. And yes, we are investing in the DT&V, but we are investing more broadly, for example in the State's Attorney's Office, because one of our measures in the return package is that people who are here and who have to go back and can go back must also go back. If they do not cooperate in their departure, this may lead us to declare them undesirable and punish them as well. That's what we're investing in. So you shouldn't just look at the state at the DT&V.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u210	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman. What I personally sincerely hope for is that in the coming years we will re-evaluate our companies, big and small. And not because they're big or small, not because of the feeling or the logo, but because they're contributing something to this country. Because a company is a collection of jobs, where people work hard every day. But we're expecting something from these companies. We expect them to make a beautiful and good product for satisfied customers, to make work of sustainability and to increase their employees' salaries if they, the company, are doing well. In short, we expect a healthy balance to be struck between profitmaking and contributing to society. There are companies that we have to be behind their pants for this, but in a lot of companies this balance is common and a lot of people are hard at work. It's up to all of us to want to see that. The point is that we want to see what companies mean to our country and that we realize that we can't live without thriving companies. In turn, companies can expect something from the government, such as clarity about the challenge of sustainability and clarity about what happens if they fail to comply with these agreements. But also for them, the work of our services is extremely important, because cyber attacks are a direct risk to their business and our economy. One hundred percent guarantee that nothing ever happens, we can't, but you and entrepreneurs can expect me to do everything I can to protect them from these digital threats. Mr. Chairman. To get all this done, a lot has to be done. The VVD Group will be critical of the elaboration of all plans for this purpose by this cabinet. Critical and constructive. In assessing the proposals, we as a group will always ask ourselves a few questions. 1. Does this solution or proposal contribute to a pleasant and safe life for all those ordinary, normal people and entrepreneurs who want to make something beautiful out of it? The effects on people's income will have our particular attention. The second question we are going to ask is whether the proposal is realistic and feasible so that we do not promise a golden mountain, but that we actually deliver on what we intend to do. Then there is the third question: is the proposal financially sound? Because, yes, this cabinet invests firmly but within frameworks, with regard to the space that is now available, the scope of the tasks that are now ahead and sound long-term accounting. That requires discipline and strict control, including on the funds. This coalition agreement offers a lot of opportunities for the Netherlands and for everyone in this country who wants to make something beautiful out of it, but that can't just happen. There are two things that are crucial. A strong and reliable government and a strong policy. First something about this strong government; I have already said a number of things about it. It is a government that is reliable and close, that delivers and protects, intervenes and acts when needed. That's where the government has left it in the past few years. Worse still, things have gone terribly wrong. So it's gonna be hard to restore that confidence. Communication about the decision to regain more gas or the image of people standing in long queues for a final close window does not help. Fortunately, the latter has been solved, because a strong and serviceable government with a human face is desperately needed to provide the help and help needed to help the victims in Groningen, as well as the parents and children who have had to deal with that horrible child care allowance affair to make it possible for them to look ahead again. Of course, that strong government is needed for everyone in the Netherlands. That means that I expect the Cabinet to talk seriously with the professionals in the execution and people in the country, that they're going to watch, hear and see how it works there and how it works, and that we use that knowledge, that the Cabinet uses that knowledge to make policies and proposals better. Now I heard the Prime Minister say last week in the programme at the NIS where the new cabinet was presented, that he will see to it that this happens. I would like to say to the Prime Minister that not only look forward to this in the Trêveszaal, but go along with it. Go to the IRS together with the Secretary of State for Finance. Go to the police with the Minister of Justice and Security. Talk with the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions with Wajangers or to the UWV. Take the Minister of Education to DUO. In short, go together. 'Cause only together we're gonna restore confidence. But a trustworthy government demands more. That is why I say to the cabinet: keep your ambitions high but be honest and realistic about what can be done, what cannot be done and how long something is going to take. And if there's a setback along the way, just say it in time and say it clearly. Only with decisiveness will we succeed in bringing the potential of this agreement to fruition, because the plans are now only on paper. The Prime Minister said something about that this morning. In order to convert those plans into action, I ask every ruler to come up with a schedule as soon as possible, so that we know what to expect when. I would ask the Prime Minister whether, in the next three weeks, each member of the government will be able to do so in this direction. That brings me to the second condition of making the Netherlands a bit more beautiful, namely strong politics. A lot of Dutch people, millions of Dutch people have chosen us to solve their problems. The last year was too many debates about ourselves, about fuss here in The Hague. There were strong reproaches over and over again and intentions that were questioned. I take that personally. Mr. Chairman. Let us put our intention to put that period behind us. With the new cabinet in office, let us also enter a new political period, in which we, as party A, say something, if party B is not directly opposed. Let us work together to make the Netherlands more beautiful: opposition and coalition, Chamber and Cabinet, with municipalities and provinces and everyone in the country who wants to participate. Let us have hard debates on the content rather than on the person. And let us be open to others instead of being trapped in our own equal. Let us begin by listening instead of reading our own points of view with our hands on our ears. And let's assume the other's good intentions instead of leaving out of mistrust. Mr. Chairman. It may not seem like it if you've opened the newspaper over the last few months, but this is exactly the atmosphere in which we've been negotiating for the last ten weeks. Yes, that really went at the sharpness of the cut, but with calm and quiet. I hope to be able to continue this relaxation in the debates here, in the interests of a good debate and with a view to resolving issues. I know that in this Chamber many parties are working every day to make things better and to solve them. I know that when they look at the agreement, the interruptions have shown that there are also choices that they would not have made. But making choices, making water and giving each other something, that's part of compromise and cooperation. You're also in if you don't get 100% of what you want. That is how the Netherlands works and how our politics works. It's asking for something from all of us. I am confident that this period will also succeed. For each party, for every MP who comes here every day to do the right thing, at the end of the day the question is: do you participate and make your choices, or do you hang out in your own right? Do you choose a solution and compromise to take a step forward together, or do you choose the safety of clean and empty hands on the sidelines? You have to want to participate intrinsically, because you want things to go better, because you believe that it can be done and because you have respect for how we regulated it democratically in the Netherlands. I told you, most of everyone in this room wants that, too. Unfortunately, this is not shared by everyone. That has already been demonstrated today. I would like to say to them that our democracy is based on strong freedoms. To us, House of Representatives, is the hard task of cherishing, protecting and deploying these freedoms to make our country better. Indeed, the rule of law gives us a great deal of freedom, but not to use that freedom to lift the rule of law. Those freedoms are not intended for intimidation, suspicion or undermining our rule of law. The taking of the oath or vow is also about this. It creates a responsibility. Take that one!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u212	Are you almost at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u213	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u214	Why don't we just wrap it up first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u215	Mr. Chairman. It's 5:00 now. During the time I was standing here, we had a good debate with each other, but we also went mad outside this building. I hope that when all those people look back on this time in a few years, they say: politics had a tough start in 2021, but then they came up with a chord full of ambitions, in the middle of a coronapandemic that everyone was done with. It was a pandemic that led to considerable tension, and to very intense discussions. But in the Chamber and in the Cabinet, they went to work. They managed to bring a little relaxation back into the business. They finally set a good example and did what they were chosen to do. That is why today, once again, say to all of us: Chamber and Cabinet, be honest, be realistic and get to work. Then we are not only looking forward but also working on that future, our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Simons and then to Mrs Ouwehand. It is Mrs Simons' last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u217	I am impressed by the intention with which, I think, these words have been expressed by Mrs Hermans. I actually wanted to say "impressed by the foundative words," but then it sounds like I'm not serious. I hope that in the coming years she will show us that this is not just rhetoric, but an intrinsic desire to make the country better, and also to improve its governance. That is why I have a question for Mrs Hermans. I myself would like nothing more than to have to say about the scepticism that I feel now, because I feel it, and I want to be honest about it in a number of years' time: gosh, I've been wrong. But I actually have a question for Mrs Hermans, which I hope she will be able to answer positively in order to help me get over that scepticism. I also feel the danger that these words and this intention will now be pronounced, the criticism that will come will be dismissed under the guise of: but that is not constructive. We've been pointing out that we're going to do things differently and better, and Mrs. Simons remains in her skepticism. My question, therefore, is whether Mrs Hermans really understands that, as much as I want to accept these words and intentions from both Mrs Hermans and the new cabinet, she is going to be faced with considerable scepticism. Will she give it to us, and will she do everything in her power to take it away from us? By "us," I mean the Chamber, at least the opposition, which has not had the pleasure of working so constructively in recent months on the agreement that is now under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u218	Trust in politics is unprecedentedly low. I care about that and feel a responsibility to do something about it. But I believe that this is a responsibility of all of us, here in the Chamber, in the cabinet and in all places in the country where politics is working. This means that we are having a debate here that is open and constructive and in which we listen openly to each other, but in which we also rely on the good intentions of the other. And yes, it's show, don't tell. Words are on paper: it needs to be realized now, we need to get it done now. But we have to start somewhere. For me it started quite a few months ago when the formation was endlessly going through... when we said to each other during the General Reviews: hey, wait a minute, we don't let 2022 go to waste. Then we started talking to each other firmly on the substance. And that you ask questions or want to know more about what is for me a belief or an intention, I am fine with it, but it starts with the confidence that everyone here with the very best intentions comes to The Hague every day to make this country a little better and to help it move forward. Almost everyone, because I said a few words about that too. That's how I'm standing here. You can count on me, but I think it's a responsibility of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u219	I have tried to listen carefully to everything Mrs Hermans has said, so I thought: I save my question for the end, because then I get the whole story. I thought I'd focus on the bright spots. Let me put it this way. I heard three points of light that are connected. Firstly, Mrs Hermans said about the funds for nitrogen and climate: we must not allow them to go on indefinitely. I would like to conclude from this that with the sums invested in it, the problems will be solved. I would ask Mrs Hermans to confirm this. I also heard Mrs Hermans say: 'We are adopting a new attitude. We're not gonna run away from trouble. If there are problems, we're going to name them and deal with them." I was wondering what Mrs Hermans thinks of the pandemic we're in right now. The only thing the cabinet writes about pandemics is that we need to be ready for the next one. Mrs Hermans said it herself. Wouldn't it be wise to avoid another pandemic? When Mrs Hermans says 'we have to listen to each other', I find that encouraging. Does that mean that, if the coalition has the comfort of having a majority in favour of its plans, to which there is serious criticism, is still being listened to? We haven't seen that in years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you. Mrs Hermans, three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u221	I'm going to answer them in that order, starting with the funds. Of course, we have these funds for a reason. They're designed to have money to solve a problem that exists. In doing so, we want to achieve climate goals and solve the nitrogen problem in order to restore nature and restore prospects for farmers. So yes, my intention, my intention, my conviction is also that with those funds we can solve those problems. But also behind this is my appeal: be honest and be clear. If the government is running into things on the way to solving the problem of nitrogen or meeting the climate objectives, which are slowing us down or which means that we need to know that things are different from what we had hoped for or what we wanted, it must communicate about them. So yes, the funds are meant to solve the problems that exist and realize the ambitions that we have. But that requires a sharp control of these funds and it requires timely communication from the cabinet if there is anything wrong. Oh, excuse me, question two. Name the problems and tackle them in the pandemic. I translated that as: it must be more than just investing in pandemic preparedness. Mrs Ouwehand says that there should actually be a strategy or a story about how in the long term we are dealing with a virus that is unfortunately likely to be among us for a long time to come. I fully agree with that. If she says that we need to look more broadly at how this happened, then I share it with Mrs Ouwehand. Now that you are standing here, I am thinking, for example, of the word 'zoonosis'. What can I do to the cabinet and what can we do in this country to deal with the risks involved? In my opinion, we should look in broad terms and ask the cabinet what is needed, not only to be pandemically ready, but also to do everything we can to prevent this happening in the future. Again, I do not have the guarantee that this will never happen to us again. Of course, we must act on the basis of what we now know and the knowledge we have gained. Then the third question, about listening. Yes, you can expect that from me. You can call me on that, too. In today's debate, but also in the main debates that are to come and which I have already mentioned, it will come to the end. Are we going to have a good conversation about the plans of this cabinet on the content? Are we putting it against the goals and ambitions that exist? Are there any ideas for getting there faster or for achieving them better? For that, we need to get our hands off our ears, not only with regard to VVD positions, but also with regard to how we talked about them in the coalition. You will understand that the coalition's commitment in the debates will be along the lines of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u222	Thank you for your answer. It is also nice to hear Mrs Hermans refer to as "zoonosis." I was a little worried that the negotiators couldn't spell that word because it's not in the coalition agreement at all. So it's definitely on the retina. I ask these questions for the following reason. Let's look at nitrogen. For the VVD, it's important that you don't burden taxpayers with huge costs while you don't solve the problems. I'll share that. In all honesty, it is not as if this problem is falling out of the sky. It was the old coalition that willingly and knowingly made new choices. We warned, but they didn't listen. A political majority was in favour of avoiding the problem a little bit, by suggesting that you are doing something, which is not really a solution. That's what it turns out now, because more is needed. The costs that are now being incurred would not have been necessary if parties such as VVD and CDA had listened before, had previously recognised how big the problems are and if they had been honest with the farmers. If you add all the problems together, you have to conclude that the number of animals has to go down by 50% to 70%. That's also due to the Chamber. My question is now the following. I'm really sorry that 25 billion is needed. If you're gonna spend it, you're gonna have to do it right. Then you have to solve the problems in coherence, including the risk that in the Netherlands a new zoonoses will pass on to people. I do not see enough of that in the agreement in all honesty. I am very curious if the VVD will show movement in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u223	In my view, the coalition agreement approach has made it very clear that this problem needs to be resolved. This problem now locks the country in several ways. At least that's bad for our nature. We have made a lot of money available to help and support farmers and anyone who needs to do something about this. Of course, you have to look at this issue from a broader perspective. You need to involve the climate approach, the Water Framework Directive and fine dust. For example, there are a number of problems that are coming towards us. They're all touching on the problem that I'm just summing up under the heading of nitrogen. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that the only way to use the money efficiently and efficiently is to look at it in that breadth. That is precisely what this coalition agreement gives to the cabinet, and in particular to the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. I look forward to a lot of plans, but this is definitely one of them, to see if that coherence is really there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u224	Finally. I'd like to make a call to the VVD. We saw earlier today in the debate that there is resistance to the expenditure of the 25 billion. In all honesty, I can understand that. The ruling parties have always done a bit lately about nature: no, there was no nitrogen problem. CDA and VVD themselves have been involved in denying the problems. The fact that you now have trouble organizing support means that you really have to defend why changes have to take place. I'd like to call on the VVD to take that responsibility. And as far as listening to what Mrs Hermans was talking about, there are so many reports that show that livestock farming in the Netherlands needs to change dramatically. Much less animals. A perspective for the farmers. All the advice's already there. Take them seriously and we can talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u225	On this subject, too, there is a lot of knowledge and there is a lot of material available. So here too, we should not start at zero. In response to what you are saying, and bearing in mind all the interruptions I have made during my speech, I do not know exactly how long I have been here, I can say that I think we have already identified a lot of major issues with each other. The problem of nitrogen has passed, but also the concern, the AOW, asylum, security, emancipation and racism. These are all topics that mark and touch this coalition agreement. Some points have already been worked out more closely than others, but it is important now. I entirely agree with Mrs Ouwehand, because that is actually how I hear and listen to her interruption. I feel the responsibility. The VVD feels that responsibility. But I felt that responsibility in the weeks that we negotiated with all four parties. We've talked long enough, we've sat long enough, now we have to get to work. There's work to be done. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u227	We are going to spend EUR 25 billion, EUR 25,000 million, to halve an annual environmental damage of 756 million, while we do not know at all what the state of nature is like. People can say I'm a nitrogen denner, but I'm not a nitrogen denner. There's just no soil samples. It's just not clear what's going on in the bottom. It is not at all clear which nitrogen deposition strikes exactly the nature reserves. This is calculated on the basis of RIVM calculation models. Calculation models, which the Hordijk Committee itself says are not at all suitable for measuring the location-specific precipitation of nitrogen on a nature reserve. There are no readings. I hear here all the time: it's a big problem. I would like to ask Mrs Hermans: where are the reports showing that livestock farming has destroyed nature in those specific natural areas? If those reports are there, I'd like to have them, because we'll know what we're talking about. Everyone is screaming, but we are spending EUR 25 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u228	A number of years ago, I think just before corona............................................................................................................................................................ This has major consequences for the Netherlands. Farmers are wondering: what is my perspective, what future is there for me in this country? We can't build houses, and building roads is complicated. Everything we have to do to keep up the movement and furnishings of this country for future generations is under pressure, including nature. The cabinet has said that we also want to solve this problem, but that we want to do so in conjunction. I very much agree with Mrs Ouwehand that this runs through the climate issue. It runs through the questions that come to us in connection with the Water Framework Directive. It runs through the fine dust problem. It's a lot of things together. I believe that we have a duty to resolve this. You're asking for reports that show A or B. I think we've all seen and experienced a problem. I think we should solve that problem. I also think that we should do this in such a way that we support the farmers because you referred to this twice in your interruption in the way they can expect us to do so. We want to work with them on a future perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u229	Mrs Hermans does not know what to do, because that is simply not known. It's just not known. Since the day I've been in this room, I've been saying that all the time. I'm not saying anything here; it's just not known. We can say: we have to solve it, because we have seen and heard and felt what is going on. Then what's going on? What's going on? Let me see those reports that show that the nitrogen from livestock farming has been knocked down in the nature reserves. Which companies do that come from? At what distance? We don't know. We only say something about that: 25 km, 1 km or 100 km, but we don't know that. Show me exactly which nitrogen has been knocked down on which natural areas. Which companies do that come from? How can we help these companies, preferably by innovating to reduce nitrogen? Show me those reports. Those reports aren't here. I am serious: we really need to know what we are doing, because we are going to spend EUR 25 billion on this. There are distribution centers of large supermarket chains, for example the distribution center of Jumbo in Beilen close to nature reserves, which operate without nature conservation authorisation. They don't have to give up anything. We don't know how much nitrogen they emit. So do we know what we're doing? It's 25 billion! It is not 25 guilders or 25 euros, but it is 25 billion. Mrs Hermans and all the parties in the coalition are all talking about people. But no one has yet been able to report to us where the nitrogen damage is coming from, where it is happening and at which farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u230	This isn't about a perceived problem, but we see it. We see that no permits are issued to build houses or to build roads. So here's something going on. We can discuss this, but that's just the situation. You're asking how we're gonna make sure we spend that money in a good way. That is how I listen to your question and I am going to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u231	Mrs. Van der Plas asked about the justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u232	I didn't ask how we're going to spend that money in a good way, but I asked if we do know why we're spending this money. We don't know. I'm gonna need those reports. If those reports are there and it's clear, then we know it. Then we know what we're talking about. But we don't know what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u233	I propose that Mrs Van der Plas should ask exactly this question to the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen when we discuss with her how she is going to implement the mandate of the coalition agreement, how she is going to complete the nitrogen programme and whether the agreements she is going to make with the province will actually solve what needs to be resolved. That's the basis for how you're gonna solve a problem that you say isn't there or at least to a different degree from that in which I judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mrs van der Plas' last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u235	That's too bad, 'cause I've got all night left. But I'm going to interrupt, because I think the subject is important enough. The coalition parties have written a coalition agreement stating that 25 billion will be spent on this, not knowing why and how. That will later be decided by the new minister. I would like to propose, and I am also going to table a motion for that, to leave the whole amount of 25 billion for nitrogen plans on the shelf, or to divide it up on issues that are currently lacking, such as the AOW, until the cabinet knows exactly what it is about. I also hear from Mrs Hermans' reply that she has no idea what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u236	Of this 25 billion, not one euro has been spent. That 25 billion has yet to be put into a fund. We want a strict control of this fund. We have already said a number of things to each other. We are also going to send out that the money spent will solve a problem. I think the questions put by Mrs Van der Plas are very relevant, but I would like to put them to the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u237	I would like to thank Mrs Hermans. She's been here almost three hours. I think we've dealt with the whole coalition agreement by now. Thank you for that. I suggest we suspend for five minutes. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u238	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the declaration of government. I would ask Members to take their seats again so that we can give all the attention to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u239	Saturday I was in Groningen. Tens of thousands of people were on their feet and a quarter of a million people participated in the torch protest online, together with Groningen organisations organised by our MP Sandra Beckerman. I was there, of course, to express my solidarity with the Groningen people, but I was certainly there to speak with many people from Groningen. What I heard most of all there was that people were really just really fed up with the way things are going here in The Hague. I talked to kids who are scared in their own homes because they think the house is unsafe because of the earthquakes. I also spoke big, tough Groningen men who couldn't control their tears. I think that was a little between anger and despair. Most of the people I spoke to actually said, "Please, let us hear in The Hague. Stand up for us there in The Hague, because The Hague waltzes over us time and time again." I think you can imagine a great deal of that now that we know that more than EUR 400 billion has been made from gas extraction in Groningen and that people are not even given proper compensation. You can see that the cracks in the houses there are also cracks in confidence in the government. And I understand that very well. Last week, in The Hague, Rutte IV's cabinet was standing on the platform and at the same time the people in Groningen were literally and figuratively standing in line in the cold. They were in line because they knew that there was a subsidy available to repair something at their house. But they also knew that only half of the people entitled to it were eligible for subsidies. That's why they had to stand in that line and that was, of course, humiliating. But it was also indicative, indicative of how The Hague treats Groningen. Fortunately, money is now added to this subsidy, but that is not the beginning of a solution to the misery there in Groningen. And very often I have heard there: what if Groningen was Amsterdam? What if Groningen was The Hague? Wouldn't there be much more attention to it? Wouldn't it have been solved long ago? Should we fight so hard to get our own justice? I think we all know the answer here, if we're honest. In addition to the fact that Groningers had to stand in line, they were of course told on the last day of the missionary cabinet that the gas extraction does not go to zero, but that the gas extraction may be doubled. And that's the umpteenth time The Hague waltzes over Groningen. As a result, I found it all the more hopeful and it was all the more impressive to be there on Saturday and to see all those thousands of people together. Those are people who got up and went back on the street again to make themselves heard. I hope that at least one of the results of today's debate will be that we are really going to do something there, because there is also, quite rightly, a lot of cynicism there. People say: "Yes, they started a parliamentary survey there in The Hague. You know, I'm sure it's gonna take as long as that parliamentary survey runs to come up with solutions for us." And I'm telling everyone in the Chamber, you can't do that. That won't be the outcome. Both the General Court and the Ombudsman and many others, including us, have so often advocated a crisis approach for Groningen. A plan for every house! Let's make sure that's there tomorrow. I would also really like to ask the cabinet if it is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Not only in Groningen, people don't trust Rutte IV. Actually, very few people have faith in Rutte IV. You can even see it in the own supporters of the parties: even there there is little confidence in Rutte IV. Of course, it's not that crazy. It's not that crazy when you think that they're the same parties with the same ideas and often the same people who are responsible for, for example, I just mentioned the big problems in Groningen. But of course they are also responsible for the surcharge scandal and the huge housing shortage that there is. They are also responsible for the major problems and shortages that are currently in the care sector and with our police. It is also the same parties and ideas that are responsible for the fact that our economy has been doing well for many years and that the richest in the Netherlands have been getting richer for many years, while many Dutch people are not aware of it. Again, the passing-through shows that Dutch people are declining, while the economy is doing well. So it's not surprising that people have little faith in it. But I think there is more to it and I think it should be about that today. The debate must be more fundamental and more about the political battle. I do not mean the political struggle that we saw this morning, because I do not think there is anyone who has looked at it at home and learned a great deal about it, let alone anything about it. I mean the political battle over political ideas, because it is far too little about that. We heard informant Hamer refer to that during the formation. She said: the parties in the middle are increasingly similar; there are so few ideological differences. You can see that in the cabinet, of course, and as a result when things go wrong, for example in Groningen or in the supplement scandal, it is very quickly said: that is a mistake in the execution or the process. It's like it's some kind of natural phenomenon. After all, it cannot be the political ideas, because we all find the same thing and we are all moving in the same direction. This does not, of course, contribute to confidence or the restoration of trust. I believe that this political struggle must be brought about and I hope that we will avoid the following. We are now talking a great deal about "the new governance culture." Everyone throws that in too often. The same applies to "new leadership." I don't think anyone knows exactly what that means. Even the party that campaigned with it wonders out loud at its own congress: maybe we should write down what that new leadership is. I don't know, but such hollow phrases will not contribute to people's trust in the government. We need to talk about where it goes fundamentally wrong. Take the supplemental scandal. Last Monday, I heard Prime Minister Rutte say again at the presentation of Rutte IV: great things have gone horribly wrong in the execution. But it's not like there just happened to be some bad guys in the Tax Department who've done some horrible things wrong in the execution. There is, of course, something fundamentally wrong if we do not have a big debate here in the Netherlands on why working people need any allowances to make ends meet. There is something fundamentally wrong if we do not have a big debate here about how we organised our childcare. Why is our childcare in private hands? Why is the largest childcare organisation in the Netherlands a, I believe, Canadian private equity company that has shares in the Cayman Islands through a legal structure? Why is that? We're going to invest billions in childcare now. The SP is for that, because that's important. But if you leave the door open to child care payments at the same time, then you can take the poison that that goes terribly wrong. We must also have this debate here. We must also ensure that people regain control over the things that matter and that we all pay for, because the lack of them does not contribute to the trust that people have in the government. In the debates on the bankruptcy of hospitals, it was said that politics is not about that; that is up to the health insurers. When it was about the mouth caps, which were purchased with a lot of tax money in the Netherlands, which threaten to hit the date and which we want to provide to the care free of charge, it was said that this cannot be done, because that cannot be done by the market. Then the market would be disrupted. This was also about the problems people encounter in refurbishing social housing. The housing association of the past no longer exists. That's a housing corporation now, and people have no shit to say about it. This also contributes fundamentally to the mistrust that people experience. I understand that very well, so I think we should have this political debate here. Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, is there nothing positive about the coalition agreement? Yes, I do. Oh, yes, I do. We think it's a good thing the scholarship is coming back and the loan system is going to die. We think it's a good thing that teachers' salaries at primary school are being straightened out, so they're gonna make a little more money. We think it's a good thing that the landlord's tax finally goes down, even though ours would have liked it sooner. That's good news. What is less good news, on the other hand, is that for all these things a great battle had to be fought. Take the housing protests against the landlord tax. Take the big protests from the students against the debt system. Take Thijs Roovers and Jan van de Ven, who together with thousands of other teachers have taken full action to close the pay gap. All this time there was a political majority for a lot of things, but the VVD didn't want it and stopped it. Society is getting the bill now. 'Cause we're running out of teachers right now. We're dealing with a housing shortage right now. We are now dealing with a generation of students with a huge debt mountain, which really is not just out of it. So that is the price society has to pay for that. We are very sorry about that. What we also resent is that earlier in this debate we were talking about the announced cuts in health care. I am glad that at least it has been clarified that cuts are being made, because I had a debate with Mr Segers last time on the extent to which they would or would not be cut. But there are those, especially in nursing care and youth care; it was already about it. In the debate I just had with the VVD, with Mrs Hermans, it did not become clear to me, but I really want to know: who came up with this? Which one of the coalition parties has invented: you know what, we can cut down on nursing care, we can abolish the staff standard and we can tell that there can be less money? I didn't run into it in the election programs. I want to know who came up with this. It can't be done. We therefore also believe that this should be withdrawn, just as the cuts in youth care must, of course, be removed. We are very much right with the municipalities that have said: we are not going to talk about this. There has been a fight for so long, both by the employees and in this case by the municipalities, to get decent budgets, in this case for youth care. You can't just put that aside. You can't just cut that down. So, as far as we're concerned, we really need to get that off the table. Another major problem that we have with this coalition is that it does not pay an extra cent for wage increases in care, while the staff shortages are already huge, which will only get bigger in the future, and we need to get everything out of the closet to keep working in care attractive or make it more attractive. Salary is certainly not the solution to this problem; much must be done for it, but there is one solution. The fact that this coalition does not reserve an extra cent for wage increases for care workers is not only antisocial, given the applause they have all received, but is also, above all, irresponsible. Because I'm asking the Prime Minister, where are we going to get all these people? Another thing we have to do to make working in care attractive or to keep it going is to cut the market. Caregivers are really frightened that so much time has to be spent on bureaucracy, but also that there are all kinds of wrong incentives in the system that make care unnecessarily expensive. So we can certainly save money in the care, but let's do it there. But that's exactly where the cabinet doesn't do anything about it. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about people's purchasing power. It was all about it in the debate. The figures of the Nibud show that all Dutch people are declining, at least all Dutch people with a bit of a low income or a middle income. I'll be right back on the big bucks. And it is scandalous, and somehow handsome, that you don't manage to show the ordinary Dutchman in times of such fantastic economic growth, in which apparently so much money is available to spend, something of it. This is particularly true of the minimum wage. Because what it was often about in the election campaign, that was the minimum wage. The SP certainly took the lead, but a number of other parties agreed with the call that it should be fundamentally raised, if only because we also suddenly had a list of crucial professions in the corona crisis. There was a lot of the parcel delivery guy on it, or the one who makes sure the shelves are full, or the bus driver. These are very often people who work on or around the minimum wage. Those people are now being told that at the end of this government period they may be making some 80 cents more progress. I want to know from the Prime Minister where this went wrong in the formation. What went wrong here? I thought we all thought so, because it was promised in the election campaign that that minimum wage would have to rise fundamentally. Then why this? The link with the AOW has also been discussed. I would like to add the following. We believe that this decoupling should be removed. We have just had an extensive exchange of views with Mrs Hermans of the VVD. I understood from her words, but that is my translation, that the VVD is in any case prepared to look for compensation options, so that the elderly at least do not decline. I would like to say to the VVD: the easiest way to do that is by law to decouple the AOW not to submit and simply to maintain that link, if only because it is also a matter of civilisation. Isn't that what this is supposed to be 30 years ago? At that time, it was agreed that older people who no longer work would at least receive higher benefits if wages went up? If the coalition wants to let that go, it means a lot to a lot of people. As far as we are concerned, that is really an important point. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to abandon that miserable idea. Mr. Chairman. The inequality in the Netherlands is very high. If you look at how wealth is distributed in the rich Western countries, you can see that only the wealth inequality in the United States is greater than that in the Netherlands. Yesterday it appeared once again that the 2,120 richest Dutch people, the super rich in the Netherlands, have more power together than the 10 million poorest Dutch people. How insane do you want it to be, I'd almost like to say. Isn't that just completely bizarre? So there is an enormous amount of money in the Netherlands. Just, it's not in enough pockets. It's not in the right pockets. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: why does this cabinet not do anything about it? In the election programmes, including those of other parties, I have read some pretty good ideas for tackling this great lack of ability. But we don't see any of it. And then say: yes, we have to cut back on the nursing homes, you know, because it's getting a little expensive there. Then why don't you do something about it? Why don't you get the money where it is? There are plenty of opportunities. I also ask this because we have tabled a motion together with D66 on a number of occasions on the taxation of assets over a million. He supported D66. I believe it even entered the electoral programme. Still, we don't see any of it in Rutte IV. That is not only disappointing; it is of course also very bad, because in this way we allow that great power inequality to exist. The SP has all kinds of ideas about that. We believe, for example, that the tax on profits for large companies with which it is going very well can also be increased. But we're sure that power inequality needs to be addressed. I really wonder why that doesn't happen. I think we can use that money well enough. It has also been a number of times here about the funds. There will be a fund for climate, for example. The SP has great reservations about this, because we do not believe in individualist, liberal climate policies. By this I mean the policy that the Social and Cultural Planning Agency also warns about, saying: you should take out a loan individually to take out a heat pump. First of all, we don't think that's gonna work, and secondly, we think that that's antisocial. This means that people who already have a little more money than others will benefit from it. By the way, they often receive most of the climate subsidies; that's how crooked it is. That, of course, is what these funds are threatening to do: that the big companies, the big ones, are ultimately not going to pay. I thought that the idea of the solution was to get money from the taxpayer. Billions have been set aside for subsidies to those major polluters. It seems that this is yet another gift to the large business community. We have been here before, for example, when it comes to abolishing dividend taxes and reducing the tax on profits. It feels a bit like this is the same game that is played on another board, now under the heading of climate. We also think it's not gonna work. We believe that it will not work in the end and that a climate policy is needed in which climate justice prevails and, in particular, the largest polluters will also pay the most. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other issues which I believe should not be left unspoken. At least one of them is living. I just mentioned all the housing protests. There has been a lot of action for decent housing and against the housing market. I find it really disappointing what this coalition is coming up with. The rents are exploding right now. It was in the news today. Rents in the free sector are also exploding. The rents in the social sector have been frozen for a year. We have had to fight very hard for that here in Parliament, together with tenants throughout the country. But what's gonna happen when it's finished? That is also my question to the Prime Minister. Why doesn't he freeze the rents, for example, if we can already see it coming, just as we saw it coming to the energy bill earlier, that they will go through the roof and that a lot of people who are already in trouble because they can't pay their rent will have more problems with that? Mr. Chairman. We are also concerned about the intention to sell social housing. We still have to see exactly how that is worked out, but we think that we really need more social housing instead of less. So my question is also: what is the background to that idea? And can the Prime Minister at least guarantee that the outcome is that there will be more social housing instead of less? Then there's education, Mr. Chairman. I've just mentioned the students. We therefore welcome the increase in the salaries of primary school teachers, but we are absolutely not satisfied with the compensation announced for the debt generation. These are the students who have simply become the victims of a totally unsuccessful political experiment, namely the loan system, also called "the debt system." There is a whole generation of people who have been in debt and then the Rutte IV cabinet comes up with a bit of a lousy tip. They have also announced a new protest. Surely we can't allow an entire generation to grow up with such a debt pile, but also with a tremendous mental burden and pressure that just gives it to you when you're carrying this around while you're at the beginning of your life and still have to build your career? We were never in favour of the debt system. We've always fought that. There were parties who did believe in this, but those parties also see that this is not good and that you should not do this to young people. That is why I ask why we cannot choose to properly compensate this generation of debts. Mr. Chairman. I see on my bell that I'm about to finish, unless you say: I think it's such a fantastic story; take some time. I brought a book, too. That book is called "Discounted, Fighted Back." It is a photo book that was made at our request by Bert Teunissen. It is 100 portraits of parents who have been duped into the supplement scandal. The book is made in a special way, namely with a special binding method. How you browse through it, left or right, makes what you see. When you browse right, you actually only see people's case numbers or file numbers. If you browse the book to the left, you will see the often penetrating portraits of the affected parents in the supplement scandal, once with only a plastic chair in the room and a mattress, and so people are still present at the moment. I would actually like to hand this copy over to the Prime Minister via the messengers. I started my story with the little confidence that there is among the Dutch people in Rutte IV, but the affected parents in the supplement scandal are the group for which it might be the hardest that Rutte III is starting out in Rutte IV. I would like to hand over the book through the messengers, but in the hope that at least there will be active memories. The fact that there is now only 10% of the affected parents have a solution is truly embarrassing. (NL) Mr President, all in all, and then I am really finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u240	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u241	Sure. There's change in the air, though. We don't see that change coming from Rutte IV, but from society. New protests have been announced everywhere. I mentioned the protests of the students on 5 February and new protests have been announced. The climate movement has launched actions for a decent contribution from the major polluters. We also see that youth care has already announced actions, on 15 March. The SP will support it and we will work together to ensure that that change is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u242	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u243	That was a nice, clear SP argument. It also seems like a very nice book, in which songs really get a face. I think that is so very important when we think about this implementation. But two elements seemed a bit contradictory. Mrs Marijnissen began her speech by saying that it is so important to fight the ideological struggle. Then she said that a number of things have changed for the better, for example with the landlord levy and the loan system, but that it is a pity that there was a need to fight for that. Do you want to fight or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u244	I meant to say that I am sorry that it took so much fighting, because here, for example, there was a long time ago a political majority on the issue of landlord tax. I think we all know that it was the VVD that stopped that and we now have to note that this has not exactly helped the housing crisis in the right direction. The same applies, for example, to students. It is a fact that the loan system has finally ended, but I have just said that it has of course been a completely unsuccessful political experiment. So this Chamber has saddled a whole generation with those debts. So I meant to say that politics can come up with new insights. Congratulations, I would like to say, but society pays the price. Society feels the pain. The children who are now going to school are now faced with an enormous shortage of teachers, which means that they can go to school less every week because there are just too few people in the classroom. That's what I meant. It's not a natural phenomenon. It's not falling out of the sky. These are political choices that have been made here, but the pain is felt in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u245	If you take those two examples, the loan system and the landlord levy, you can of course blame the VVD for everything. I like to do that sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u246	That's often the case, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u247	It is a large party with some responsibility and with a prime minister who has been there for some time. We can indeed blame them for everything, but there really are other parties, including left-wing parties, responsible for the lending system. The landlord's tax came at Rutte II, which was half of a left-wing party. Bad plans, too, have many fathers. Are you willing to keep fighting? And if you are prepared to do so, do you still have any hope for any success, so that once in a while a bad plan will fall over the edge and you will indeed achieve something? Do you have that hope in this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u248	First of all about the first: you are quite right, of course, that bad plans come not only from the VVD, but also from other parties. I am only pleased that at some point these other parties have come to a different understanding. But I find it sad that the price for this is not paid by you or me, but by the people we all know the examples that are now in a lot of trouble, for example, because they need a house but cannot find it or because they cannot pay the rent. Let me give you just a few examples. I certainly have that hope. We have that hope, but we are not taking that hope out of this coalition. I notice that a lot of Dutch people look at it that way. I understand that, too, when you see at the same time that the people responsible for such major mistakes... Mrs Kaag has had to resign because of Afghanistan. Mr Rutte had to resign because of the surcharge scandal. Then the cabinet makes a start and they just sit there again. We may be able to raise our shoulders about that in the Hague bubble, but a lot of people don't understand that at all. If you put that on the fact that there is so little political argument, because it all goes about the same way, why would people still have faith in it? I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u249	As far as the pain of the loan system is concerned, I paid that price myself. It's fine for me to do, but I have two college daughters, who have the same perspective that they just fall out of everything. At the same time, you can see that if you make yourself strong, if you form a Coalition-Y, if you hang out with other parties and if you keep hammering that share, you can have success at some point. I am not asking you to suddenly fall in love with this cabinet or with individual members of this cabinet, but I am asking you to continue your efforts. Look, for example, at climate justice, which you rightly talk about. You said in your contribution that you are concerned about that. There's an isolation program in this coalition agreement. That's where money goes. That goes first to the worst isolated homes, to the people who need it the most. That goes first to the people at the front when we have to be just in the energy transition. My compelling plea is only as follows. Don't do it for this cabinet, but do it for the people. Do it for justice. Do it for better plans. Have a very small bit of hope that if you talk, negotiate or once in a while talk, you can have success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mr Segers really does not have to worry about that. If I can help him by taking that care away so that he can sleep a little quieter tonight, I'll say, "I've got lots of hope, Mr Segers." You really don't have to worry about that. We have seen the examples ourselves. I have just mentioned the struggle we have fought together with tenants, for example, to freeze the social rent. But there has been a tremendous amount of struggle to ensure that it succeeded. There's a huge rent explosion now. I regret to say that this coalition is not doing anything about it. That is why I asked my question to the Prime Minister: why don't you freeze the rents now? You really don't have to have a glass ball to think that we're gonna be here in a couple of weeks or months, all looking at each other and saying: I'm so sorry that the rents have gone through the roof and that so many people are getting in trouble financially, if they're not already in trouble. So there's definitely hope. There's plenty of them. At the same time, in terms of climate, we have to note that many billions are being allocated to climate, but we absolutely do not believe in the idea that it will be all right if you transfer it to the major polluters. In fact, as far as I'm concerned, that has nothing to do with climate justice. People don't understand that either. The power bill goes through the roof. At the same time, a further billions of taxpayers' money must be transferred to business to make it more sustainable. We would say that a socialist climate policy, climate justice, is: let them use these big profits, for example, to make them sustainable, before you start working with subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u252	Mr. Chairman. After ten months of forming, I think that a lot of people are relieved that there is finally a declaration of government and that we are finally moving again, because we here together may understand exactly what happened in all these ten months, but I fear that this does not apply to most Dutch people. When I was in my home, politics wasn't much of a topic either. It wasn't until my parents ran into the government more and more. My brother was diagnosed with minimal brain dysfunction. It was called MBD back then. That's kind of a container concept for kids who couldn't come all the way to school because of behavior or anything unclear. Every child is busy, isn't he? That's how it was done. The solution was sometimes the advice to stop eating candy. My mom was having a hard time with that, because how can doctors not know what's wrong with him? That was the signal for her to take action. She also wanted to help other parents in a similar situation. That's how she got involved in the Parental Association Balance. This is now the parent association for parents of children with learning and development problems, such as ADHD, dyslexia and autism. My mother wasn't academically educated. She went to the school for social work in Baarn, but she really wanted to know everything about learning and behavioral disorders. The stack of scientific literature was getting higher and higher at home. The more she read, the more she wondered: what good is this for parents? So she decided to write herself. Books full, for the parents, so they could help their children better. Her first book was called "Be normal." Because that was the spoils that children with ADHD so often heard and with which they could nothing at all. As a result of her work, she was allowed to contribute to the advice of the Health Council. Then the committee was listed under such advice: professor doctor De Beaufort, professor of medical ethics, professor doctor Boer, professor of paediatric and youth psychiatry, professor of doctor Oosterlaan, professor of psychiatric neuropsychology, and Mrs Paternotte of the parent association. Her books were working. Parents were happy about it, but these kids also needed a government. Because it doesn't matter if you get extra time on an exam as a child and can take an oral test more often, that there can be extra guidance at school, that medicines are reimbursed. So more and more at home it was about the Binnenhof, about politics. She and her colleagues realized that if you want to change something, you have to be in The Hague a lot. For example, that hour came extra for children with dyslexia. Her struggle in The Hague brought politics to our home. One day my mother got a call from a political party that was good for the polls, with a handsome young curly as group leader. This party also often stood up for education and parents. They asked if she was interested in the House of Representatives. As you can see, I am talking about Paul Rosenmöller's GroenLinks. My mom just didn't seem anything. She didn't think she had enough patience for politics. She'd rather really just stay the voice of the parents. But because of her story, I know very well that what we do here with each other matters very much in people's lives, and that politics only works when it comes to what people need to move forward, not what the system requires of them. That is exactly the question I would like to put to this cabinet, namely to deliver on that promise. Madam President. What I also expect from this cabinet is for it to repair and protect the democratic rule of law, which is under pressure, all over the world. Unfree countries are becoming even more autocratic, such as Russia and China. Free countries are becoming less free. The United States is still licking the wounds of the storming of the Capitol, driven by its own losing president. Orbán abused the corona crisis to further concentrate his power. The Polish government party made an attempt to illegally turn the elections into their own hands. What happens there can happen here. The safe survival of our democracy is not a matter of course. There are enough threats to worry about, from the outside and from the inside. On the outside, we see the aggression of foreign powers and the dangerous potential of Big Tech. In the coalition agreement, this cabinet wants to counter foreign influence. It wants strong European defence and pays a lot of money for the armed forces and cybersecurity, because we know that Russia does not back down from annexation and violence and that surveillance at the Ukrainian border is now being done by the British and Americans, while Europe should be able to contribute in its own backyard. From the inside, we see to our horror that the government can turn against its own citizens, from parenting to Groninger, where access to justice is inadequate. We can also see that society hardens and undermines the inspiration and example of what is happening in our parliament and also in local democracy. Democracy is under pressure from a radicalising anti-democratic movement. That is a movement that uses very cynically the feelings of distrust, a movement that is not constructive but destructive, which always blames the other for essential problems. This movement demands tribunals and hits people with repulsive conspiracies, contributing to an atmosphere in which politicians and other public figures are threatened with death. The cabinet is therefore going to improve the monitoring and security system and put a lot of money into it. That must be because a lawyer and a journalist were murdered in our country, because the first thing some ministers see now when they walk out the door is a police station, because scientists who work for us all are threatened. I refer to the free press, such as the journalists of the NIS who work under an editorial statute which guarantees their independence but which is now hampered in their work, which plays such an important role in a free society. That's not normal. As long as it is, we must rise up against these extremes. So, against the expectations of the cabinet, I also have an expectation of what we can do ourselves in the interests of a functioning democratic rule of law with a sound political culture. My group will always try to cooperate with all reasonable forces in the interests of democracy. And you can. Of course, such a coalition agreement is not just the result of two months of negotiations with four parties. What the coalition now intends to do often has a long history, a history that always transcends parties and coalitions. Like the idea of almost free childcare. Essential for emancipation. This is originally from the case of the Labour Party, the Wood/Van Aartsen motion. And now it's finally coming. The constitutional review was an idea of GroenLinks, the Halsema law, a good idea, which in the immediate sense brings back the balance in our democratic system. Now it becomes reality. The abolition of the bio-industry was an important reason for the founding of the Party for Animals. This coalition takes that over gratefully. I have proposed the CO ceiling for aviation in order to protect creation together with Chris Stoffer of the SGP and now government policy. Thinking back to this morning, I find it sometimes difficult for myself to think cynically that political culture is a given and that it is always hard against hard, that the nuance is missing, that you really cannot talk freely. I can imagine that perhaps everyone in this room will feel that way, but we would be better off with a different culture. A political culture in which we are not in those trenches but in an ancient Dutch circle. Old habits wear off slowly. That's gonna apply to me, too. Political struggle remains necessary about its content. If we can see here today that the coalition will look openly at the ideas of all parties and that the opposition does not reject everything in advance, then the parliament can become what it should be, a place where all the wishes and ideas of society come together, so that people feel heard and so that together we determine the future, sometimes with great strides, often with small ones. Sometimes I certainly do not rule that out. The opposition is more right than the coalition and is right. I remember that at the start of the previous cabinet, Lodewijk Asscher called into question the plan for pay dispensation for labour restrictions and a year later, together with the coalition, also brushed away that plan. Mr. Chairman. I read the coalition agreement, and then I thought, the sooner this is implemented, the better. Because it's very social, ambitious and progressive. Everything is intended to guide people fairly and diligently through that transition period. It is ambitious, just when I think of that 60% reduction in emissions by 2030, which Rob Jetten now stands for, with the support of his colleagues. Minister Jetten will have to pull everything out of the closet and will need all his colleagues to do so: from the flight tax to the CO tax and from sustainable housing to windmills at sea. It is ambitious because of the revolution in agriculture, which will visibly change our country forever with fewer megasthals and more nature and clean air. It's ambitious for science. Finally, researchers and universities get the support they need for their crucial work. It is social, with a new impetus for legal aid, with a substantial increase in the minimum wage and with the largest structural investment ever made in equal opportunities through good education and almost free childcare. It's social, because we're gonna be patient with kids and students again. It is progressive, with substantial investment in culture, with room for the Chamber to answer questions of life and death, such as the law completed life and other medical-ethical issues, and with the first state commission ecstasy in the world. This is a cabinet that more than ever looks like the Netherlands, with the diversity that is our strength. That is why racism and women hate are tackled and attention is paid to all pages of our history, with a National Historical Museum and a slavery museum. With the agreements of the coalition agreement, the cabinet tries to create space in everything it radiates for people who are different, who just need a little more time, who move forward with patience and attention. That's what my mother tried to do at the core, first for my brother and then for so many others. That's what drives me in politics. The direction is good, but that of course is not a guarantee for result. So my group wants to be an independent driver in the coming years. In our view of politics, it is not about who can come up with the most beautiful plans or achieve the most beautiful agreements. It's about what you can make of it. So I would like to give one warning to the cabinet: my group is an impatient group. So I'm gonna ask the Cabinet this. When does the first mega-shower sign an abhorrent contract with the climate minister? When will Hugo de Jonge put the first new kick in the ground at Amsterdam, Utrecht or one of those other cities where people are stuck by ridicule house prices? When will the Prime Minister raise the glass with Macron and Scholz to an autonomous, strategically strong Europe? When will the first student receive his basic grant? When do primary school teachers receive their first paychecks at the same level as secondary school colleagues? When is this big city gonna be able to start with regulated weed cultivation? And as a basis for everything that we want to achieve: how does the government intend to solve the shortage in the labour market, in other words, how do we ensure that we train people quickly enough to live up to our childcare, climate and education plans? Mr. Chairman. The democratic rule of law that is so dear to us will only continue to exist if people have confidence in it. Enemies of democracy tell us that democracy does not provide solutions for people. They're wrong. That's what we want to show you. That is also the ambition expressed in the agreement and in the statement made by the cabinet today. That is also the task that we warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u253	I see you think it's time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u254	I am at the end of my speech, Mr President. But that probably means it's time for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u255	You have time left. But we're definitely gonna take advantage of that. I've seen Mrs Ploumen. Then there is Mr Klaver and then there is Mr Van der Staaij. First Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u256	Thank you, Mr Paternotte. It was a fine tribute to his mother and his mother, if I may say so, to all those women who stand up and act when they are convinced that they are needed to find a solution. I would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte. This is his first debate as chairman of the political group. I look forward to working together. He gives up on the social and progressive content of this coalition. I really have doubts about that, but when I hear Mr Paternotte like that, I am hopeful that we can make it better for a lot of people in the Netherlands together with other allies. We can do that by adjusting this agreement. I will make a number of proposals for this later. That is indeed the way it should be in a mature democracy. Mr. Chairman. When I read the coalition agreement and then, of course, saw the bills and heard the Nibud this morning, I remembered the debate I had with Mrs Kaag. On March 8, International Women's Day, we were talking about what had to change in the Netherlands and in the world. We agreed very quickly that it should be fairer, that polluters should be dealt with and that wealthy, wealthy, large companies should make an extra contribution to what is so important to us all. So when Mrs Kaag joined the negotiations, I had every confidence that it would also become fairer. I am very concerned about growing inequality, not just between Senegal and the United States, but also here in the Netherlands. I'm actually very disappointed that none of that has happened. The minimum wage: people get €0.80 per hour, in three years I believe. The AOW is being decoupled. Cutbacks. We just talked about it. What went wrong? Is Mr Paternotte willing to look with me and others for ways to make our tax system much fairer, making it much more social for so many people in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you for the compliment and the congratulations. I look forward to working together. I fully agree with the statement that it is about so many women who, because of what they are experiencing, came into action and subsequently managed to make a difference for a lot of other people, and who are therefore an inspiration to others. If there are proposals to amend the agreement, I will, of course, look forward to it. I just want to say this. The conversation you had with Mrs Kaag on 8 March certainly led to all sorts of things that we see in the coalition agreement. I refer to the fact that the energy tax is going to be more progressive, that large consumers are going to get heavier, that, for example, greenhouse horticulture is finally going to get involved, the increase in the CO tax, which is needed to achieve climate change, the fact that the free donation of €100,000, which people who can do that to their children, the jubelton, is going to go away. I also mention the fact that we are going to see that your return tax is no longer based on fictitious returns but on real returns. The fact is that financial returns are very detrimental to people who only save and are very beneficial to people who invest very lucratively. When you start taxing on real returns, you shift the burdens of the people with a smaller capacity to the people with a greater capacity. Those are all things that happen, but more needs to be done. I hope we can hang out in that together. For example, with the money still to be found for the task of tackling tax avoidance. I believe it's a billion dollars. That's all about to happen. I do not think Mrs Ploumen is right to say that nothing is happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u258	I know D66 as a party that is going for change in the system; Mr Paternotte said that in my opinion, too. Just now, in times of growing inequality, such a change is needed. This inequality also leads to division. Mr Paternotte mentioned examples of interventions. There are fine measures, but it does not touch the core of where things really go wrong in our country. I'll give you the example again that if you're a parcel delivery guy, you probably have a flex contract. If you have a fixed contract, you get €0.80 per hour over those three years. But the Zuidas is left untouched. The people who have been lucky enough to inherit a property are left untouched. The big companies, the shareholders, the tax on profits are left untouched. I had hoped very much for it but the evening is still long and we still have three years ahead of us that D66 would join the parties who really want to change the system instead of defending the status quo, as it is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u259	I would like to say two things about this. The tax on profits was increased a few months ago, but I will not talk about that. The first is that I think we are changing the system with this. We make a lot of investments in equality of opportunity and are very focused on combating poverty. The fact that we are prioritising the increase in assistance and the minimum wage is, of course, also because there is the greatest poverty there. Why do we want that rich school day and put a lot of money into primary school? Because we don't want it to matter who your parents are anymore for the chance of you trying sports or music. This will make school day longer and richer and create more equal opportunities. All this is meant to create a society where it matters less where your crib stands. If you say 'but your commitment was to do more on that capital tax', you are right. It has just been said that the coalition agreement is the D66 programme, but that is not true. Mrs Marijnissen rightly said that we had higher ambitions on things like property taxes. But I stand for everything we have achieved in terms of climate, Europe, education, investment in culture. I can list the entire laundry list. Because the advantage of this coalition agreement over our electoral programme is that it does not depend on 24, but on 77 seats. Even that won't be enough. In the end, we will also have to convince others, especially if we want laws passed in the Senate. I hope that we will also look at you and discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u260	Also on behalf of my group: congratulations to Mr Paternotte on his first debate here as group chairman. I also had a debate on inequality. This morning it was already about the purchasing power repairs that are needed. The coalition wants that, too. Very good. But just for the record, what are we talking about? Suppose the 7.5% will also apply to the AOWs, they will receive €6 per day. That's important. At the same time, we see that everyone who owns a house gets around €200 every day. Power inequality is the pink elephant in this room. All the parties that negotiated wanted to address that power inequality. The order of magnitude differed a bit. The CDA wanted to do the least, with 2.7 billion. You wanted to do the most, with over 15 billion. The compromise has become zero. I don't understand. What happened there? Is there room within the agreements that there are now to see how we are going to burden power more heavily? Because that is ultimately the great injustice in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u261	Thanks, too. I look forward to working together, although I do not have the illusion that I can quickly match the chemistry that Mr Klaver had with Mr Jetten, certainly not on TikTok. I get the question. I don't think it's zero, but it's going more towards the 2 billion. I agree with you that this is less than our ambition, but there are a number of important things in the agreement that arise from the analysis that needs to be made. Money still needs to be filled in for tax avoidance. For example, we see that people who set up an e.g. then put money in that e.g. and lend it to themselves. They can either postpone taxes or avoid them. They can do so in a way that is still legal, but of course it is not the intention. An important task for the cabinet is to tackle tax avoidance by looking at this kind of thing as well. I think that's a good start. Let's be honest. Four years ago, it was a lot about the gini coefficient. I know that Mr Klaver came to be known for that at some point. The odds are decreasing with this agreement. I think it is important to establish that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u262	That's why I was talking about the pink elephant in the Chamber, the power inequality. In income inequality things have to be different and better, but compliments: that doesn't look grossly wrong at all. I was concerned about the lack of ability. You were talking about the bvs. That's about box two. That is exactly what the government agreement proposes to extend. Let's look at the housing market. You were talking about all those young people who can't get to a place. We could add extra. Hugo de Jonge can quickly put a shovel in the ground and make sure that it is built in one of the big cities. But if homes are bought up by investors or in this case perhaps ministers, they will not end up with these people. That's for a reason. If in the Netherlands the houses of all people who own second, third or fourth houses were on the market and young people or starters could buy them, then the housing shortage would have been solved. It is far too lucrative to have these homes, because the income from them is hardly taxed. The cabinet is doing far too little about it. I understand you haven't been able to arrange everything, but is there really room here? Is D66 free to consider this independently, or should it always be in consultation with the coalition parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u263	It is precisely about the housing market that I think it is quite clear that the goal is to achieve affordable housing, whether for seniors, start-ups or students. There will also have to be flex houses. I like it when people can buy the house they live in if they want to, and if they can make that step. What you don't want is for that place to be sold again very quickly. I know Minister De Jonge as someone who likes to deal with complicated files. I think that an important task will be for him to speak through this very well, as far as I am concerned, together with the Chamber and to ensure that this cannot happen. New performance agreements will have to be made. Many municipalities will make new cooperation agreements. That's what you need to record these things in. You are absolutely right: we absolutely must prevent an impetus in housing from leading to more people having more homes, while at the same time allowing more people to live in their own homes, more people to have affordable rental homes and the housing market in the Netherlands to start up again at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u264	Okay, but I don't think that's quite an answer to my question. The fact that Hugo de Jonge has to work as a minister seems clear to me. But the point remains that there is a reason why I have said that in general, I am not speaking to any minister why there are so many second houses and third houses in the possession of ministers. It's become a trend. If you have overvalue on your mortgage and you come to a mortgage advisor, you'll be advised to take that overvalue and buy another house for it. There are people who make enough money and who have money left. They're thinking, "Let's just buy an extra house." While there are people in this country who don't even have one house, or can't afford it. That is the great inequality we are facing. There's nothing this cabinet can do about that. Now I'm not asking what Hugo the Young will do. In the coming years, I am asking whether I can work together with D66 on this issue and whether D66 is free to make other choices in this respect than were agreed in the coalition agreement. That is actually the most specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u265	Let me be clear. We just signed the coalition agreement; the ink is just getting dry. So if you're asking me if I can distance myself from that right away, then the answer is quite simply no. But the government agreement on the housing market includes an ambition that I think is very much in line with what Mr Klaver is saying here, namely that living is becoming more affordable for a lot of people and that a lot more is going to be built. Those plans have not yet been fully worked out, of course, but this effect will have to result in you having the guarantees that homes will be built, that buying a home in which you live will not lead to resale Prince Bernhard has been mentioned very often in the campaign and that living will be affordable for more people. For this, we will have to work together, and I am very happy to work with you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u266	Last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u267	Finally, very specific. I'm not asking you to distance yourself from the coalition agreement. I'll ask you to do more. That's something else. One more point about living. Every time we talk about the purchasing power problems that exist. That's because rents are rising enormously. There's no record of that in the coalition agreement. Does D66 want to work with us, as has happened in recent years, that the rent increases will be reduced even further than is currently the case? The high inflation rate can be charged one-on-one in the rents with the rules that are now in place. We know that rent often accounts for more than a quarter of household spending, so that would help a lot in the purchasing power of a lot of people. Is Mr Paternotte prepared to cooperate with us on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u268	I look forward to seeing your proposal in this respect. You said something about purchasing power. In this respect, the coalition agreement states that our starting point is that we want the purchasing power picture to be positive for all groups. It is clear that it has also emerged today that there is still a challenge here. This will also have to lead to people being able to pay their living expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u269	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij, then Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Azarkan. Before dinner break, Mrs Ploumen's contribution will follow. Then everyone knows the program until dinner break. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u270	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte on his new role. At the same time, he is already an experienced debater, and we can see that today. I was actually impressed by Mrs Paternotte's story and by what she was fighting for each other as a common citizen. My question is: does this coalition agreement actually provide enough room for people like Mrs Paternotte, who, as ordinary citizens, also want to influence the implementation of policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u271	I hope so, but that's not something you can achieve with a coalition agreement. That's what you get with an attitude, where you want to know what it means to people on every subject we're talking about here. In doing so, you first go to the people in practice to hear how they think about it and whether they might have ideas about how to do it better, and you are also open to those ideas. And then you can never, never, ever say sorry, but this has already been figured out, we put it on paper, you can say what you want, but we're not gonna think about it anymore. I think that's what it's supposed to be. In my view, that is the task of the cabinet, but it is also really something in which we can carry out our monitoring task. My mother was allowed to join the round table conversations here in the Chamber. Sometimes she came back happy, because there was attention to problems, and sometimes less happy, because things were presented that came from a certain dogma. She said about that: we can't do anything with that, we have to keep thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u272	"Keep thinking" sounds hopeful. Does this also apply to a subject such as the 2G policy? That has given rise to a great deal of discussion in the Chamber, but also in society. You can see that trenches have arisen very easily instead of the primal-Dutch circle Mr Paternotte was talking about. If we see today the results of the scientists who say that doesn't really do as much as one hoped, isn't that a good time to spend our energy better and just abandon that plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u273	Compliments for Mr Van der Staaij's little bridge. In itself, I am very happy to debate this issue as well. I saw those tests, and I think the new virus variant can definitely change the playing field. One could say that new insights should also lead to different policies. At the same time, I think: please, let us not confine ourselves to research carried out here in the Netherlands, but let us also look at what is happening in the rest of Europe. Today, the mayor of Venlo said that he would very much like to introduce 2G because he fears that a lot of people from Germany will come to the catering industry, because they will work with it. That's just not 2G. That's because they've changed it. They have said that this new variant is so contagious that people entering a full pub must also have done a test. What they have done in Germany is actually the idea of the Christian Union, 1G, that they have merged with their 2G policy, with the result that in Germany, at least so far, they have managed to keep the catering industry open throughout the winter. Many Dutch people now cross the border as tourists. Mr van der Staaij also said that this kind of difficult issue could lead you to confront each other. I think that's right. The corona pandemic has caused a lot of tension in society. But I also see that these tensions are often caused by the lockdown and by things that people can't do anymore, by students who sit at home for too long or by entrepreneurs who wonder what perspective they have left. In the end, my idea has always been, even with something like a coronapas, that you prefer not to have any corona measures at all. But a lockdown has so incredibly many drawbacks that we prefer to consider alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u274	Mr Paternotte rightly pointed out that the Animal Party was set up to abolish the bio-industry and, of course, to do more beautiful things. We can work well together in that. In fact, we were founded after the beautiful plans of the Purple II cabinet, in which D66 was in together with the VVD, were simply wiped off the table by the first cabinet-Balkenende. Then we thought: now the measure is full! We're gonna get rid of the bio-industry. So we've been working together on that; we've been doing that for the past year. I wonder, however, what exactly does the coalition agreement mean by a covenant that provides the basis for legislation for animal husbandry? Then you'd think, "Fine!" But the case requires that the Lower House and the Upper House have adopted, approved and adopted an amendment to the Animal Law. That law just has to come into force. Now, in the documents we have seen today about the negotiations, we read that scenarios have been explored in order not to allow that to happen. So I am very curious to see what the coalition agreement is saying here. Are the legislative changes that have been adopted simply going to remain in force or is the government agreement going to do something else with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u275	What the coalition agreement is about is that we are not going to adapt the animals and their environment to the space that is in the stables, but that we are going to do it the other way around, or that what an animal needs is going to lead to what a stable should look like. That is also the idea of the amendment tabled by your colleague Mr Vestering. It says 2023. Because of the covenant, we're not going to get that exact date, but it puts extra pressure on the fact that we want to achieve that. We want animal husbandry to be carried out. By this we say that the bio-industry has come to an end. What about the Animal Law and its implementation? I'm running out of work, but I haven't gotten to this page yet. I hope you will understand this with my colleague De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u276	Well, either we come back to it in second term. The cabinet hears the question now too. I heard the Prime Minister say in his explanatory statement to the government statement this morning that we must be firm when democratic decisions are undermined. This seems to me to be an example of a democratic decision. Twenty years ago, it was announced that we would do this. The Second Chamber is in favour and the First Chamber is in favour. There is only a moment left to settle for entry into force. I can't imagine this cabinet trying to get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u277	I think that Minister Brinkhorst would love to see his memo Loving Animals from the beginning of this century cited once more. This was indeed the perspective that we are going to put an end to the bio-industry in 2022. In any case, we are establishing an agreement with each other in which for the first time this ambition is so clearly written down. By the way, I believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u278	It's beautiful. We're in agreement. I have one final question, and it's about the climate plans. Of course, we are excited about finally raising the targets and for the arrival of a Minister for Climate and Energy. Other speakers have also pointed out that these 35 billion should not become subsidies for large polluters, who should simply pay for their pollution themselves. That is what we are doing instead of actually using these resources for the transition that is needed. If that's what's gonna happen, of course we're further away from home. So we do not yet see any fundamental choices in the coalition agreement, which are actually part of it when you finally say: we are going to work on climate change and we are going to throw 35 billion at it. Isn't that part of the fact that Lelystad can't open? Schiphol will have to shrink. There really needs to be a very substantial CO levy. Why don't we read these things?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u279	You're reading something about a CO levy. You're saying it shouldn't go to subsidies. But look, it's gotta be going on incredibly many things, because there's really gotta be a lot going on over the next few years. You can see that whole laundry list in the coalition agreement. I also just asked when we could expect the first laws. But sometimes it will mean that you also have to help parties and companies to make them more sustainable. You say 'large companies', but they will be SMEs just as often and perhaps more often. We are also going to do this to households by offering them an offer to get their homes isolated or to get them off the gas. In other words, that money is also there to make sure that people can do the same. On the other hand, however, you can see that the coalition agreement also very often contains the word'standardize', because we also make a clear rule, namely that this must be done and that this is not without obligation. I think that's just the balance. We have to do it together and we have to make it possible for everyone, but it has to be done somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u280	But that's where I belong in that... We already saw in the Millions note that the underground storage of CO is actually just paying Shell for the emissions that that company itself caused. Why does the taxpayer have to pay for that? Those are just not good and sensible choices. Where the Party's fear of the Animals sits a little, is... We already noticed this in the discussion about the data center in Zeewolde and the news after that that 20 or 25 more are coming. In recent years, the VVD has explained the red carpet for this kind of energy slurpers, but then the D66 Minister for Climate and Energy will have to ensure that we meet the goals and that we don't fill the Netherlands with windmills to generate all that energy for those data centers. I assume that Mr Paternotte agrees with me. It says nicely in the coalition agreement "we are going to take a more critical look at that," but then you have to draw a line. That data center isn't coming, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u281	I agree, of course, that the aim should not be to complete the Netherlands. We want as much renewable energy as possible. My colleagues have also spoken critically about this data centre. I think that's also what the VVD chamber member did that I see sitting there. It's just, of course, that those data are being used, isn't it? They are used in a lot of ways to make sure everyone can get on the Internet. If it's not in the Netherlands, it's in another country. That doesn't mean you have to have it here, but it means that climate change is international. It is also not the solution to put things across the border. That is why we always felt it was so important that leaking is a part of all transfers of all climate plans and that it should remain so. In other words, the climate map is something of all of us. That is why we want us to be in this leading group in Europe. And with the ambition we have set, so does it. This should also lead to the fact that not only the whole of the Netherlands will be full of windmills. We want windmills at sea. We want aquathermie. We want more solar panels. We want us to drive electric, et cetera, et cetera. There are a lot of things we want to do for sustainability. But to say that one data center in Zeewolde would not let go of the solution would be: I think we should also be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u282	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u283	I didn't say that if we just don't let that one data center in Zeewolde go through, the climate problem will be solved. Mr Paternotte must not, of course, start his fresh start as chairman of the political group. I think this is a real problem and that people in the Netherlands are really wondering: I have to make it more sustainable, but Facebook can just suck up all the green energy? And that while windmills are also controversial. I would remind Mr Paternotte that the cabinet is always talking about an outstretched hand, a new administrative culture, confidence sheetiebla. In the First Chamber, all parties are opposed, except the coalition, because it voted neatly against our motion. In the Lower House, the Christian Union is also opposed. If D66 allows the VVD to still be a bully and push its own plans through it, then of course nothing changes. This is only one example, but it says a lot about the choices this cabinet is prepared to make. We keep hearing Mr Rutte say: "I understand that there is no trust. The Netherlands thinks: let's see it first." Today is such a day. What are we gonna show you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u284	What we should be able to find each other in is that we want to make the energy tax more progressive. The fact is that the more energy you consume, the less energy tax you pay. Of course, there is a lot to be said for this, also because a lot of large consumers do not just use a lot. But by making that more progressive, you also make sure that large consumers will contribute more. You call Facebook, but there are a lot of big consumers. In this way it becomes fairer, but even more important: there will be a much stronger incentive for sustainability. I think that is the best approach. Only stopping a data centre, which then comes to another place, can be done, but that is not a structural solution to the energy issues we face. But you have to build in good incentives and sometimes help companies with their energy conversion. In this way, you will do everything you can to achieve the goal of 60%, and 70% five years later, and to get to an economy that is truly sustainable as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u285	Mr Azarkan van DENK and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u286	Congratulations, too, to Mr Paternotte. He does this for the first time, but of course he is extremely experienced. You should always listen carefully, so I just did. He asked the question and also looked at the cabinet: when will the first student receive a basic grant? And then I thought, "Well, that seems like some sort of feigned aloofness and dependence." Here is the group leader of the second largest party. This is, of course, regularly discussed. Moreover, the coalition agreement simply states when it is introduced, at the earliest in September 2023. But that's not what my question is about. My question concerns the EUR 1 billion reserved to compensate all students. That's too skinny. The students aren't gonna accept that. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte whether that is fair. If you've taken a total of 12 billion students, is it fair to reserve a billion dollars for the return?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u287	That is indeed not a full coverage for all years in which there was no basic grant. At the same time, the money from the basic grant was of course also invested in education, so that things could happen. I am very glad that I happened to say to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union two years ago: if we change the scholarship, it must remain in education. For example, Maastricht University has said that working groups may consist of up to 15 students, so that there can be real attention for the students. Other municipalities have increased the number of places of work for students. I think it is very important that the money stays in education. That $1 billion is gonna be all right. This is independent of the amount for the study vouchers that many students have received. This has not made them very happy so far, because these study vouchers made it possible for them only to go back to college or university for further training at a certain age. I think it is very important that with that billion and the amount for the student vouchers there is the possibility for students to say: I want a discount on my student debt. Is that totally covering for the amount of the basic grant, if you would charge it back? No, but it's a nice step and I think that's more useful for the students than if they hadn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u288	I too would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte on his debut debate as group chairman. He listed a whole range of measures in which he feels a certain urgency. There were measures that I think were: yes, that's why we got out. Think of climate policy, raising teacher salaries and the basic grant. There were also a number of elements which I think are not yet coming to terms with the overall merger that Mrs Marijnissen fears. There's still plenty of battle to fight. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna do the same. But on one point, about the weed experiments, I am curious to see how open Mr Paternotte is in that, as he says we should keep thinking. If you're going to experiment, it can go both ways. It could be a huge success. Nor can it bring what, for example, the D66 Group hopes. Suppose it does not contribute to the reduction of crime, that it does not contribute to a reduction of addiction and that it is not successful in all kinds of ways, is the D66 Group open to changing its mind about legalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u289	I'm really convinced it's gonna be a huge success. Let me just be very honest about that. After all, I have spent many years in the city council of Amsterdam, I have been in many coffee shops, which was during work visits, I have to say, and I have also talked to the police about this. Also there was the conviction that the system with the closed back door and the open front door simply does not work very well. That's why we're glad we're doing that experiment. I know you're looking more sceptical about that, but that's why I think it's nice that we at least found each other in it that we're going to do it. Of course, you have to look honestly at the results of these investigations. But if you ask me what I expect from that, then I am also looking at states in America that have carried out the legalisation, and at more and more countries in Europe that are taking those steps. That is very conscious, because they know that a criminal earning model is not the solution in the end, and because making legalization discussable, providing information and controlling quality is really better. But the chairman knows all about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u290	I almost want to get involved, I have to say, so I'm gonna have to hold back. Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u291	Sounds like you're going to those tents together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u292	So we're on a job visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u293	Oh, working visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u294	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u295	Still. You now sound like a believer: you have great hope that it will be a success. But an experiment is an experiment. I agree with Mr Paternotte that the model we now have is indeed a very questionable status quo, with a difference between a front door and a back door. That is indeed difficult to explain. So you're gonna have to change something, left or right. I would choose another route, at least that is my hope: a drug-free society where you do not confront young people with drugs and where that threshold is higher rather than lower. That would be my route. But we're going to have an experiment. Why? Because we want to know what the outcomes are. But then I ask my question, straight forward. Is there openness to an outcome in the sense of: Oh, this is indeed different than we thought, so we're going to reconsider?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u296	The statement that I sound like a believer, I take it from your mouth as a compliment. Is there room to draw a different conclusion after that? Look, we're gonna read that research, of course, and we're gonna judge it fairly. This is what we agreed on. If that research shows that the experiment gives opportunities to do better with each other in the Netherlands, then we assume that we will do so. If the investigation raises very serious doubts, then you have to do something with it. I am really convinced that a model of legalization is better than it is behind the front door, growing in the attics and in the basements and suppressing it, because I do not see any place in the world where that is a thrilling and daunting success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u297	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. Then the dinner suspension follows. All attention to Mrs Ploumen's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u298	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by congratulating the directors of the Rutte IV cabinet. Many of them are absent, for understandable reasons, but I assume they are watching. The fact that you are prepared to serve the Netherlands, to bear responsibility, can count on respect and appreciation from the Labour Party. I very much encourage you not to care about all those people who say: only the first and last day of your ministry is a beautiful day. Because you are going to encounter bumps, of course, and I have some speaking time, so we are going to disagree too, but you have the chance to do the right thing. You have the chance to make a difference in people's lives here and in other places in the world. You have the opportunity to represent our country and meet special people. That is a great honor and a great responsibility, every day, not just the first and the last. We wish you every success and wisdom. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has had to wait a long time for this cabinet, which is necessary to cope with the great challenges of this time. Of all the major challenges that there are, I call it getting under the thumb of the pandemic, the shift to a sustainable economy and the tensions at the European external borders, one is the most important one as far as the Labour Party is concerned. This is reducing inequality and making progress possible for everyone. We see it all around us: increasing inequality leads to disruption of society. For the first time since World War II, there's a generation of children growing up knowing that they're not gonna get it any better than their parents. In our country, too, the gap is widening. The group of people who are doing well is getting more and more, at the expense of another group of people, a group that is getting bigger, which is getting less and less opportunities. If we fail to narrow those differences between people, to counteract that division, to reverse the trend that the rich are getting richer and the poor are poorer, then everything that is of value will deteriorate. Mr. Chairman. The alarm bells are ringing louder and louder. They sound in Groningen, with the call for respect. They sound in Valkenburg, where the people are muzzled by the flood. They sound along the production line of Heineken in Den Bosch, where the employees in the shift work wonder how the top of the company can progress up to €1,300 per month, while they get a few tens, which do not even cover the increase in the cost of living. They sound in the theatres, our cabaretists, our actors and our artists. Those theatres are turned into hair salons and beauty salons in arren to give them a way to perform their performances and offer us fun, inspiration and comfort. We see it in the social consequences of the corona pandemic, which has further deepened inequality in our society. I am referring to the inequality between people living in different neighbourhoods, between people with a large social network and people who are very lonely, between people living in good health and people who appear to be very vulnerable, between people with a fixed contract and people with precarious jobs, flex workers and self-employed people. Mr. Chairman. Where inequality grows, the displeasure smears. It lays the germ for dichotomy, for dichotomy and for polarization. This leads to a society in which people are actually just building walls instead of building bridges. This growing inequality has been ignored for far too long. Housing could not be so long ago on the dung valley of history. The rising tide would also lift the small boats. Our Prime Minister objected to the term "poverty" not so long ago, because there would be no poverty in the Netherlands. Today we welcome the arrival of the Minister for Housing and we are pleased to see a minister come to address poverty. Words and titles are beautiful, but society now demands action. The key to this coalition agreement is for the Labour Party: is inequality reduced, is progress possible for everyone and does the government actively contribute instead of increasing inequality through its policies? Mr. Chairman. Although we are positive about some of the intentions of this cabinet, such as the recognition that tackling the climate crisis can no longer wait, that teachers in primary school earn more than they are getting now and that the Netherlands has a vital role to play in Europe to tackle cross-border problems, our conclusion to the balance sheet cannot be anything other than that Rutte IV starts with an inadequate one. I will explain to you why that is our conclusion, starting with the false start in Groningen, where all the promises made are being pushed up against gas extraction, where the children's heart centre has to close the doors and where thousands of Groningen earthquake victims were waiting in a queue for a subsidy that they are simply entitled to and which is only a right to compensation for suffering suffered, and then all too often at the end of the day to fish behind the net. I talked to Groningers who stood in line, like Lineke. She was still hurt. She said, "You know, I've missed that money so far, but the humiliation to stand in line there with all the others and to see your neighbors suddenly as competitors, that's the worst thing, and I can't get rid of that feeling anymore." At the end of that day, the newly appointed Secretary of State performed to say that the Groningers who were in the back were unlucky and that the money was running out. When I heard that, I was wondering, didn't you learn anything? Didn't you learn anything from the supplemental affair? Surely the cabinet should know that harshness, where compassion and guilt are needed, is both morally incorrect and politically untenable. As we often saw with Rutte III, Rutte IV was also succumbing to this: fortunately, under the storm of indignation which not only occurred in Groningen but throughout the country. Rightly so, but evil was done. People's trust in government has been damaged again. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who further examines the Rutte IV coalition agreement will see that growing inequality continues to grow. The wealthy and the polluters are being spared, while the income position of many older people is deteriorating and the young people of today are going to be billed. Rutte IV doesn't have the chance to really overcome the housing crisis. Investors are not put in the way to keep making money, while starters and house seekers have checked. The most cynical measure is actually the sale of social housing, because the happiness of the person who can buy a property leads to the accident of another person, who realizes that the waiting list of ten years is now going to be even longer. On behalf of all those hundreds of thousands of people who are looking for an affordable house, I tell you that this measure is no good; take it off the table, as is the intention to increase the rent for middle incomes to market rent. What does that mean? That nurses, teachers, police officers can face a rent increase of sometimes many hundreds of euros. And what does Rutte IV have in store for the elderly, who have worked hard their whole lives and now enjoy their retirement? They hear that they should not benefit from a much too modest increase in the minimum wage, because the coalition parties decouple the AOW. That is the axe at the root of the welfare state and as far as the Labour Party is concerned unnegotiable. I think it would be wise if this measure, which is simply inexplicable and which increases the inequality between the elderly and the elderly without a pension and between the working young people of today and the working young people of 50 years ago, were simply removed from the text today. The minimal increase in the minimum wage should also be deleted. What am I supposed to say about that? €0.83 an hour you get. You're not even gonna get that from now on. You're not gonna get that for another three years. That really doesn't look like shit. The situation is not much better for the young people who have not been affected, because look at the most vulnerable children who are in trouble, because there are long waiting lists in the youth care sector. What brings this new cabinet to them? Additional cuts in youth care and the introduction of an own contribution. The care of the elderly is also greatly reduced. The CPB itself says it: it leads to less care and lower quality of care. Under the new leadership of Finance, the sovereign debt rises to mythical proportions, as the cabinet fails to impose additional burdens on distorted assets, multinationals and super rich people. The cabinet does not ask for anything extra from the growing number of millionaires, but limits the care for children with autism, with psychological complaints and for children who are unlucky that their parents cannot take care of them. There is talk of the sale of social housing, of the decoupling of the AOW, of a minimal increase in the minimum wage and of an own contribution to youth care and nursing homes, while the cabinet does not ask for exorbitant assets and leaves the profits of multinationals and shareholders out of control. Mr. Chairman. You understand that our disappointment, but above all our concern about these plans, is very great. I would have liked it to be different. I would have liked to have been here to say that the Netherlands is really moving forward with this agreement, but we are still dealing with a coalition that has bought off political differences. The four parties have sat together, invested billions, but the political differences have not been bridged. A fairer tax system, housing, nitrogen, climate and the supplementing system: no agreement has been reached. It is a form of politics that does not dare to make fundamental choices, which does not dare to divide the account; for every problem there is a lot of money and after us the flood. The General Court of Auditors and the Council of State do not warn for nothing about the lack of democratic control. That's a job for us as a room. Mr. Chairman. The coalition parties are today expressing warm words about constructive cooperation in this Chamber. I welcome that attitude, of course. But keeping that promise does require a different attitude from what we have seen so far. Voters heard in the Mark Rutte and Wopke Hoekstra campaigns say that it is important to quickly reach a coalition and to bridge differences, but the voters received two leaders who refused to discuss without any substantive argument, resulting in damage to democracy. This history puts a mortgage on the cabinet and on the cooperation with social and progressive parties in this Chamber. I sincerely hope that the coalition is serious about the warm words about cooperation. I hope that they will be open today and tomorrow to fundamental criticism from society and from the opposition. I do not mean turning a button in the financial framework here and making a slight change there, but it is really open to that fundamental debate and to fundamentally different choices. Mr. Chairman. Those choices are possible. There is an alternative that reduces inequality and raises progress to the standard for everyone. A fair and green world is within our reach if we dare to make choices with an eye for everything that is of value to people: good health, definitely work, a decent income and a nice neighborhood. That progress is only achieved if prosperity, well-being and nature improve together with a government that is there for everyone in a country where not the place where you were born determines how old you are, but where everyone can grow healthy. It is a country where all children can discover their talents, where there is less inequality and more solidarity. This is a resilient society with international and European cooperation, as with the new German coalition, which is showing us the way in many areas. Mr. Chairman. That is why I make a number of proposals. These proposals stem from the progressive opposition agreement concluded by the Labour Party and GroenLinks. As far as we are concerned, substantial adjustments are needed in the coalition agreement. One. Share the bill fairly. Enter a new social tax system, shifting taxes from labour to capital, with progressive capital taxes and higher taxes for polluters and large companies. Enter a European digitax. Tax avoidance must be tackled seriously. This does not pass the bill on to future generations and we also ensure that work pays again. Two. It is our mission to restore the promise of progress. All Dutch people should be able to benefit from economic growth and billions of investment. This requires a serious purchasing power package. Maintain the link between the AOW and the minimum wage and take steps to increase that minimum wage. Three. Drop the cuts in youth care and care for the elderly. At a time when there is so much investment, it cannot be true that we are cutting back on vulnerable young people or that older people are getting less hands on the bed. Employees in care deserve a raise. Four. Make education the great equalizer again, with enough teachers for the class. Provide more recognition for the profession, with a decent salary, more colleagues and lower workload. Then we can make sure that all children can learn to read and write well enough. Turn child care into a public preschool where all children can go, so that we can give all children a flying start. Five. Stop the housing crisis. Choose housing. Please refrain from the planned rent increases for middle incomes and refrain from the cuts on the rent surcharge. Avoid the erosion of our social rental sector. Choose to protect the tenants and discourage speculation with real estate. Six. More trust in the government starts with honest choices. Turn back the decision to gain more gas in Groningen, and give the victims of the earthquake damage, the surcharge scandal and the flood in Limburg quickly generously what they are entitled to. This year, come forward with proposals for the abolition of the surcharge system, which will make the system simpler and fairer. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the key question of this debate today and tomorrow is whether we as a Chamber can do what Rutte IV fails to do: to discuss seriously the major issues of today and to make proposals to provide them with a fair and social solution. For the Netherlands, a country in which progress becomes a promise to all of us instead of a privilege for some and in which we reduce inequality, so that no one can push ahead and not the law of the strongest. Not the one with the most money, not the one with the biggest mouth. A country in which we all have equal opportunities for a fair future, in which there is security of existence for every Dutchman, a fine place to live, certainly work, a good income, good education and care close to it. So we can all move forward and no one takes a step back. A country in which no one is humiliated, but where the government is standing next to people again and listening to people, in which we respect each other and look back at each other and let another go for it, because what is good for me is not always good for another. But I also know that I have learned at home that what is good for another is usually good for me. Mr. Chairman. If you do what you did, you get what you got. It really has to be a different direction with the Netherlands. The Netherlands can no longer afford the lack of political choices. I'm sure those choices aren't popular with everyone. But the growing inequality, the falling security of life and the waning confidence in politics are asking for answers. If the coalition parties take the concerns and criticisms of society and the opposition seriously, I sincerely hope that there will be room for cooperation on our part. But if the four parties are persevering in their own right again, I sincerely hope not to do so, then I see it bleak. I'll close with that. Inequality is not a law of nature. It's not a given. This is also a very hopeful message. The division can be reduced by making the right political choices. It does start with making those choices. I very much hope that today and tomorrow we will succeed in making the coalition agreement fairer and more social, because that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u299	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I suggest we have dinner suspension until 8:00. After dinner break we continue with Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u300	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the declaration of government. I ask Members to take their seats so that we can give all the attention to Mr Heerma of the CDA. I call Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u301	With the ungrateful task of speaking right after dinner break. Mr. Chairman. "Those who have for years advocated a cabinet of this signature have always called this a cabinet of the future." These words were spoken by my father in 1994 as chairman of the CDA's political group during the debate on Purple I's government statement. Now, debates on a declaration of government are always a moment of historical perspective. Marga Klompé was cited by the Prime Minister, Laurens-Jan Brinkhorst at the beginning of this century, by Jan Paternotte and Wilders talked about Den Uyl, but I choose the history of Purple I. And I do so for more than just the fact that my father was there as CDA group chairman, because the arrival of the purple cabinet was a historic moment in our political history. It was the first time since 1918, since the Cort van der Linden cabinet. In the mid-1990s, there was a time of great optimism, of progressive thinking. Economically, we were in the wind. Charges were illuminated. Shopping hours were extended. State-owned companies were self-employed. As Frits Bolkestein said almost triumphantly at the time: the depilation was almost complete. The Purple coalition agreement was labeled "socialist liberal." A pragmatic policy that would then pass the world as the third way, a smaller government, more responsible for empowering, resilient citizens, accompanied by a touch of creative thinking along the line "every man for himself and the State for all of us." Interestingly enough, in the words of Kok himself, there was still some concern in the government statement. He said: "In the event of so much individual urge for renewal, cement is in danger of falling out of society. We need to hold the bond with the past and the bond with each other: resilient people with vulnerable people. Attention should be paid to continuity, solidarity and solidarity." A lot has changed in the past almost 30 years. The world hasn't gotten any clearer. On the one hand, we have taken huge steps forward: in the economy, in technology and in science. Worldwide, we have eradicated diseases and reduced poverty. The world has become smaller than it has ever been, and more connected than ever. On the other hand, the shadow sides also became increasingly visible. Globalisation and technology have drawn deeper dividing lines between winners and losers, both in the economy and in the labour market. The emphasis on a small government has led to bureaucracy and technocracy: a government that does too little at the front and is expected to do too much at the back. And yes, freaked out individualization has eroded the cement of society. Many of these problems become visible and come together in the current corona crisis. This crisis confronts us with previous choices and consequences. It tests our way of living together and our idea of justice, solidarity and responsibility. When we, as CDA, look at this new coalition agreement, we see a mirror. We see a mirror with the Purple Rule Agreement of 1994. We're seeing a mirror image of a altered spirit of time. Again, we see an important role for a strong government that directs people's housing, spatial planning and our economy. We curb the market and protect our industry. We strengthen the cement of society with initiatives such as social service, the National Historical Museum and more involvement of citizens in their own environment. Less me and more us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u302	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u303	My last interruption was about Mother Paternotte. I have an interruption about Father Heerma now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u304	This was not an agreed work with Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u305	No, I didn't. I just happened to be looking into those wonderful General Political Reviews of 1995 by Heerma senior. He actually put the subject of family policy on the map, with questions coming from all sides. He said: "If I see the whole policy, including the tax system, then it is still too much: live the individual, away with the family. I lack a consistent family policy, including support for the opportunities for families to live and work." How does Mr Heerma view the current coalition agreement? Is that really improved? Is Heerma's criticism now completely obsolete or could the current coalition agreement still use a touch of consistent family policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u306	Mr Van der Staaij is now mirroring a debate by my father about which I have made my maiden speech. That was in a debate on social affairs. During that debate, my father was hoarded. There was a laugh in "K." The joy of the fact that the CDA was not in that cabinet was celebrated with some hardness. Many have subsequently seen that my father had a right point there and that more attention should be paid to families and family politics. I believe that a great deal has changed in that sense and that in this coalition agreement there is also attention in many places to families, to care for each other. Just take the plans around child care to make it more affordable for people who are in the care peak of their lives but often also have to do with an income valley. I think that is an important example. It is a different kind of family policy than my father advocated in the 1990s, but it is indeed family policy. Thank you for mentioning this in the debate, although I was 17, 18 years old in the House of Heerma, I was not very pleased, especially because of the reactions of the Purple rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u307	I still think the policy could use a touch of Heerma. You mention the example of childcare. This concerns the occupational care of children. But there is a much broader family policy, for example when it comes to how your parents allow you to take care of children and support them financially. How can this caring society, in the opinion of the CDA, become more effective? I was in the coalition agreement, googling for care. You don't run into much after all. If you Google on families, you get to family locations, azc's and everything. Well, that's important, too, but that's different. But how can family policy, in the opinion of the CDA, get a little more hands and feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u308	Mr Van der Staaij called for more "Heerma" in the policy. I can only welcome that. I will discuss the role of society and care for each other at various points in my text. This is, by the way, broader than just family policy. Sometimes it is a single sentence in a coalition chord that offers a hook to do more about it. At the same time, that is an important touchstone for us. That's what's in the "less me and more us." I will therefore touch on several points, in terms of housing but also on the cooperative society that I spoke about during the General Political Reviews. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij sees kinship in matters which the SGP also considers important. If not, we'll get back to you later. When I look at the coalition chord, and that mirror image of the altered spirit of time, there is much in this coalition chord that the CDA is proud of. We see many of our ideas, whether it be a new perspective for our farmers, the abolition of landlord tax, the introduction of land-use planning policies at national level, the arrival of a Minister for Housing, the return of the basic grant or a strong budget to tackle the undermining of organised crime. We are also taking huge steps forward in the area of climate and nitrogen, in order to find new, viable solutions with sectors for a clean environment for our children and grandchildren. And I am looking at Mr Van der Staaij and we are taking advantage of the strength of our society with many initiatives at local and regional level, which represent that cooperative society. In the Christmas issue of De Groene Amsterdammer, historian Philipp Blom stated that the most important condition for a major social change lies in the recognition of its need. He says: "A real social new beginning only happens when the model of before no longer works." This coalition agreement marks the turning point for us in this social change. I am looking at Mrs Marijnissen who says 'on some points later than we might have wished for'. But they're here. A new beginning offers people hope, and hope is something other than optimism. An optimist expects things to go better by themselves, while hope is a task to put their backs into it, to live up to the hope of a better, fair society. Mr Segers has just said, in an interruption, that hope is a task for all of us. This time is crying out for hope, for community spirit, for solidarity, for cooperation instead of polarization, for decency instead of reasonlessly screaming, and for truthfulness against fake news and conspiracies. At the same time, I am well aware that confidence in a new beginning is far from self-evident. At the end of last year, the Atlas of the Netherlands was published, a publication by Josse de Voogd and René Cuperus. They show in their document of nearly 120 pages with all kinds of tables and a map of the Netherlands how anger and frustration works for a large, growing group of people and how the loss of trust in the government, the market and in society has caught up with them. They feel that they are not part of it and are concerned about their future and the future of their children. They are the indispensables of Ron Meyer's book, indispensable but often invisible. They are also the forgotten groups that Mr Segers mentioned earlier. Who are these people? Minister Kaag asked himself that question. Are they fellow citizens of the Netherlands for whom the Netherlands is not an awesome country? De Telegraaf mentioned this in an article "The satisfied part of the Netherlands rules." It can't be, and of course it can't be. In our society, with great challenges ahead, we need everyone side by side. To look forward, we have to look forward to each other. We need to restore the solidarity between those resilient and vulnerable people that Kok was talking about. We need to replace makeability with customization and regulation with trust. Although there are a lot of issues where we can check whether the cabinet is fulfilling the commitments and whether it is implementing them properly, for my group there is one main criterion on which we are going to measure the success of a cabinet. That's less me and more us. Marga Klompé was cited by the Prime Minister. Her motto was: in a society, every person counts. That goes with this. We will have to translate these great changes into the living world of ordinary people: what does this mean for them? If we're going to recalibrate the social minimum every four years, that's to know if it's enough to make ends meet. If we're going to make the labour market fairer, it's to provide certainty about your work and your income. If the government needs to become more serviceable, it's because we don't want people at a window to be a number or a bar code, but a fellow citizen with a problem or question. If we re-introduce the basic grant, it's because we want young people not to start with debt to their adult lives. The return of housing is to ensure that everyone has access to an affordable home. We can do this, if we do it together and if we make sure everyone can join us. However, every euro is paid for this by citizens and businesses. This has already been mentioned by several speakers in this debate. That is why it is right that the CPB should warn us of excessive expenditure. Now I have to say that there are all kinds of assumptions in the models of the CPB. When it comes to incidental amounts that are being calculated structurally, about much lower income effects than previously expected and about the non-allocation of plans that have not yet been implemented, you can deal a lot with the 92% that the CPB comes to. At the same time, we are gathered here as a Chamber not to control the CPB, but to control the cabinet. I would therefore like to ask what the cabinet is going to do to ensure that public debt does not rise to 92%. A good steward prevents us from shifting climate debt to future generations. The same applies to an unbearably high level of public debt. That too cannot be extended to future generations. We didn't agree in the coalition agreement that the government debt goes to 92%. The cabinet must prevent this, because that is not acceptable to the CDA either. In addition, it is important that such large sums also include well-developed plans. I believe that both the Council of State and the General Court have pointed this out. Mr Hermans already asked for outline letters. That's a start. The plans that are there need to be worked out. They should also be able to be checked here in the Chamber. It cannot be that, because there are funds, the Chamber cannot carry out its work as an auditor. I would like a commitment from the cabinet, but also an explanation. How is the cabinet going to ensure this, both when it comes to public debt and concrete plans that can be controlled by the Chamber? Moreover, the CPB also points to a very different risk. That is the risk that the public debt will not be so high at all, but that we will be faced with enormous windfalls for the state treasury in the coming period. Well, they're lucky for the wrong reason. That is that the ambitions in the areas of climate and housing, for example, require so many qualified staff that there will be a shortage in this, especially when it comes to technically skilled VMBOs and MBOs. Mr Paternotte has just asked for this. What is the Cabinet going to do to prevent this? How are Ministers Jetten and De Jonge going to work together to ensure that there is more training and retraining for the professions that are so in demand? The UWV indicated yesterday that 46 different professions are needed, where there is already a shortage of 45,000. Ministers will have to work together not only because they need training and retraining, but also because they need to avoid competing for this type of staff. How are the directors of SZW and OCW going to ensure that the ambitions for retraining and lifelong development are quickly addressed, and that additional funds are also allocated? I'm gonna head back to housing anyway. Mr Wilders predicted that I would devote a considerable part of my speech to this. During the General Political Reviews I indicated that this was my first priority. I am proud of the outcome of the negotiations in this area: the arrival of a Minister of Housing, the abolition of the landlord's tax and the recapitulation by the Empire of housing and land-use planning. With some self-reflection, which is touching on what Mrs Marijnissen said, I can also say that we have now concluded the agreement that we should have concluded in 2017. That didn't work out at the time. This also means that we are far from there, because the housing shortage has not been resolved overnight. What is the government going to do to ensure that short-term agreements are made with the housing corporations so that they can take their role to build affordable, especially in the middle rent, where they have not been able to do so before? Aedes said yesterday that she wants to do so and that she sees room for that too, but that she is also worried about whether municipalities are going to create enough space for that. This also applies to Mr Van der Staaij in a social initiative for which the coalition agreement in the section on housing is also chosen. They say that they want to give more space to residential care initiatives, initiatives such as junkyards. They're also touching the SP's care neighborhoods. They are a very important social initiative, in which care and living are combined. But municipalities are not always in the mood for this, because something else has been chosen with project developers. The coalition agreement is committed to this. What is the government going to do to break through the resistance that is too common among municipalities? In any case, I think it is crucial that we give more confidence and space to society itself. During the General Political Reviews I already talked about the cooperative society. In the Atlas of Abandoned Netherlands I have just spoken about, a very interesting observation is made about a band that runs through the Netherlands in which there is substantially less talk of having dropped out. That band runs from the southwest of the Netherlands to the northeast. It is noted that this is not less because the people there are substantially richer, better educated or financially better educated, but because there is much richer association life and more volunteering and care. It is interesting, however, that a rich social life together, beyond individualisation, is a magical tool for greater solidarity and solidarity and for polarisation and cynicism. Who'd have thought? The coalition agreement contains a number of points to address precisely that social strength, that cooperation and great involvement of citizens. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he wants to give greater scope to the more active involvement of citizens in major changes, to that cooperative society. Look at examples in France with citizen councils, or how the new constitution was designed on Iceland. How does he see this social movement, this cooperative society, also as part of the new social contract between citizens and government? Mr. Chairman. As I indicated, the CDA Group sees many of its wishes in this agreement. But, of course, that was a question that Mr Omtzigt asked Mrs Hermans about, there are also issues in this coalition agreement which we are less pleased with and which we would not have invented ourselves. I am thinking here of the extension of drug experiments, but also of the legislative proposal on completed life. For example, a coalition agreement is always the resultant of giving and taking. But even after a coalition agreement has been concluded, there are issues and there are pain files. I would also like to mention two of them. The first is the false start Mrs Ploumen already mentioned it with Groningen. That false start was caused by a letter that was sent by the previous minister and was confronted with by Secretary of State Vijlbrief. He went straight to Groningen this week. That false start in Groningen is very polite and lived through. It breaks the restoration of trust, which was already fragile. I think it is a good thing that the cabinet has already indicated on Friday that more money should be made available to prevent these queues. But a promise has also been made to turn the movement towards zero. Instead, more gas is being pumped. My question to the cabinet is that question asked by Mr Paternotte already very sharply what the cabinet can do extra to prevent more gas from being pumped up instead of the move to zero? The Secretary of State has indicated that he is going to talk to the Germans about this, but I would also like to look at the Prime Minister himself. Is he willing to talk to the Germans, too? We're not talking about a distant friend here, we're talking about a good neighbor. After everything that has happened in Groningen and also in view of the intentions of the coalition agreement, I think the cabinet simply has a duty to do everything in its power to try to achieve this. A second issue concerns the position of pensioners in relation to the minimum wage, but above all in relation to the purchasing power picture of the CPB. Much has been said about the Nibud in this debate, but the Nibud is looking at purchasing power in 2022. The real pass-through is from the CPB, which accounts for higher inflation. That is the primary reason why the purchasing power plates look much worse than the coalition left. This means that the agreement we made with each other, namely that purchasing power should be balanced and on average positive for all, is not being fulfilled for pensioners. That's not in line with the agreements we made. As far as the CDA is concerned, the cabinet must come forward with an answer this spring. And that answer must be that the purchasing power for pensioners is being repaired. Mr Hermans has already mentioned this. She did not want to commit herself now in what way that should be done. She mentioned the possibility to further increase the elderly discount or increase the IOAOW, which is actually a headline on the AOW that everyone gets. Another variant could be to increase the AOW itself. Since we have made an agreement on purchasing power, my question is to the cabinet to come to the spring decision making with a repair. Madam President. With this coalition agreement, time does not stand still. A coalition is not a marriage or a social contract. The CDA stands for its signature and trusts in good cooperation. So we say yes, but no amen. Because that would mean that we would only have to dedicate passages from the agreement over the next three years. That's not what we were chosen for. We will again and again take the space to make our own sound heard and to give our story about solidarity, solidarity and sight to each other in this house a face, but also to come up with proposals for a Netherlands beyond individualization. We will debate within and outside the Chamber our ideas and ideals for a better Netherlands, as we have done in recent years with new visions on agriculture, the climate and recently on drugs. That sounds obvious, but it is precisely in this fragmented political landscape that I think it is more necessary than ever. I am convinced that we must return the debate to the political centre. We should not be afraid to discuss differences. Then we must look together to see how we can take a step further. That's democracy. The poet Merel Morre of Eindhoven was right to wonder on Twitter last week why we always look at the extremes when the truth is in the middle. I really understand that the cynicism and the basic attitude of "seeing first, then believing" are there. In the debate in 1994, my father said that he wanted to give the cabinet the benefit of the doubt. I understand that for many parties in this house, the benefit of the doubt has shifted to the disadvantage of mistrust. At the same time, I can only imagine when reading the interview of Wouter Koolmees in the Volkskrant last Saturday, that not many parliamentarians in this house thought: it is true what he says, we really need to do this differently with each other. Too often we see in this house again this morning we have seen parties bickering, screaming and making each other suspicious. This does not contribute to confidence in politics. A new governance culture also calls for a new political culture. A culture of respect, of dignity, of truth. A culture of general interest over shared interests. A culture that appreciates the compromise over its own equal. In that spirit, we can choose a different direction, including in the political debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u309	There is an interruption by Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. That's her last interruption, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u310	Thank you to Mr Heerma for his speech. I remember that family policy in 1994.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u311	It was in 1995.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u312	Or the family policy in 1995. I think it is good to note that in 2022 family policy means the wealth of rainbow families and multi-parent families. I therefore very much hope that this coalition will speed up a fully-fledged multi-parent law. But something else happened in 1994. I will be brief, because it is not a good memory for Mr Heerma. Even then, the CDA wanted to intervene in the AOW. Even then, they were undoubtedly hard hit by it, but they did. Many elderly people, but also the CDA, have paid a high price for that. I hear Mr Heerma saying that there is room. I would like to advise him to make the honest, social choice, which is obvious, which is simple and simple and which is entirely in line with what we want now. Get that decoupling off the table. That's the social choice and you can make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u313	Let me begin with the removal of a misunderstanding, which I think is too much in the debate. Most of the e-mails I get seem to follow from that misunderstanding, too. The AOW is not decoupled in the sense that it no longer rises with prosperity. The indexation is still in place. This means that in the years to come, as always, I believe twice a year, it goes along with wages. There is a lot of misunderstanding about that, and we need to take that misunderstanding away here. There is no mention of structural decoupling. What the hell is going on? We have included in the coalition agreement a one-off increase along two lines of the minimum wage. This follows on from Gijs van Dijk's own initiative proposal. I believe that it has now been signed as a second signatory by Mr Maatoug. Because it was the minimum hourly wage, the AOW didn't go along with that either. In addition, there is going to be an increase in the number of jobs, and I will not say "the bottom of the labour market' - the bottom of the wage building. That happens at 7.5%. There are also parties that did more there. We didn't, but there were parties that did 10%. I think the PvdA did 14%. But that is being lifted up and that affects about 9% of the labour market. That's 9% of the people who make the least money at the bottom of the payroll building. So a new soil is being laid in that wage building. We have made the choice to do so, because it leads to a fairer labour market. It is actually an adjustment of the social minimum, because the assistance is in it. But if you bring the AOW to that one-off increase, you're going to do something to 3.5 million elderly people, while it was meant to be a measure at the bottom where most workers also notice no effect at all. We chose not to link that one increase. However, we have chosen to allocate 700 million to increase the elderly discount. That is what we are trying to do at the bottom. As I said earlier in my speech, if you look at the figures we get back from the CPB, and if you look at the development of purchasing power, you will see that older people are falling short. Mr Hermans says'slapping through the ice', but so I say'shoot in the min'. But that's not the deal we made. That will have to be repaired this spring. There are several ways to do that. This can be done via the old people discount, but this can also be done via the IOAOW, for example. That is an arrangement that was put on top of the AOW, I believe at the initiative of Gerda Verburg almost twenty years ago. These are ways of ensuring that older people, like everyone else, are entitled to this purchasing power, which must be balanced and on average positive for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u314	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u315	Short, Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma needs a lot of words to try to explain that it will actually be okay. But it's not gonna be okay, because it's gonna be decoupled. There is a minimal increase in the minimum wage, as I have just said, and older people come in the minus. A large proportion of the elderly in the Netherlands are affected by this decoupling which is now de facto being achieved. That's not a few of them. I believe the Nibud said it's 1.3 million. It's a lot of people, because all these people have is AOW and a small pension. They are therefore not eligible for all the additional measures you want to take. So it's really about something. Again, it can be simple. Make sure the AOW simply stays linked to the increase in the minimum wage! By the way: make sure that minimum wage goes up seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u316	In any case, I must say that someone has to give a long answer, which is also a bit of the oldest political trick there is. There is a misunderstanding here, namely that the AOW is being structurally decoupled. That's not true! The AOW is just rising with prosperity. In addition, in my own contribution, but also in the reply to Mrs Ploumen, I have already indicated that we believe that it is impossible to reduce the purchasing power of pensioners. That is contrary to the agreements made, and that must therefore be repaired. That is part of the question she then asked. I've already given that answer twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u317	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u318	Mr President, thank you. The best debate of the year is the Political Reviews. This time we're lucky, because we just have them twice in one year. That is such a nice debate because anything can actually pass. But there is also a danger, namely that we think we have an impact on everything. The interesting thing about this debate is that we are talking about the policy for the next three years, in the context and against the backdrop of a very uncertain world. At the eastern border of Europe there is a threat of war. I find it rather bizarre that we are now working on the policy for the next three years, while at the end of this week there may be a war on our borders. That's the point I'd like to start with. I hope that the Prime Minister, in his reply tomorrow, will also go a little further into this uncertain world. What are the scenarios that we take into account? I don't think the chances of Putin in there with a full army are very great. I think they're about to attempt to destabilise all our alliances. This puts additional pressure on the European Union and NATO. I want to know what additional diplomatic efforts the Netherlands is going to make in this area in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Against that background, we are debating here, the background of an uncertain world. We don't know what's going to happen around us, but we're still trying to steer it as best we can. I found it difficult to find the right tone for today, because to be honest: there are really very nice things in this coalition agreement. My compliments on that. How the hell can you be against extra money for education? How should I be critical of 35 billion for climate? And yet there is an unheimical feeling with me when I read it all. What's that and where's that coming from? If I'm being very honest, it's because I had higher expectations of what a new coalition would do. After the low point in April of this year, the debate about the leaked pieces and the whole discussion about the governance culture, I thought: "And now we're really going to do it differently. We are really going to work with each other in a very different way and come to decision in a different way. We are going to fundamentally address the problems in our society and not just fight the symptoms." That's where I find it disappointing. I was thinking of a book I read about 12 years ago when I was travelling through Italy by train: The tiger cat. Maybe some of you have read it. It is a beautiful book, which is about the unification of Italy. It plays at the end of the nineteenth century and deals with how the noble class in the north and south tries to perpetuate its power. There's a beautiful young man in there, the Prince Tancredi. And I had it in one go: that's Mark Rutte! Mark Rutte is Tancredi. He makes a fantastic and legendary statement in that book: everything must change so that everything remains as it is. The journalist Anne Branbergen once described Italian politics beautifully in De Groene on the basis of that book. I can't tell it any better than she can, so I quote it: "Everything must change so that everything remains as it is. It stands for (...) bend with the revolution, like reeds in the storm, to get your own interest in order as soon as possible. New ideals, new times, a new order, a new humanity," I add myself: the fair story, new idealism and new leadership "everything can be neutralized by benevolent confrontation. Quietly wait for the moment when the naiveling who threatens the status quo does not pay attention to quickly securing the true power relations under the table. It doesn't matter what label you put on it (...) what matters is that interests are safely steered across the river." And at one time I saw it again: when we sat with Johan Remkes in September and Mark Rutte managed to stay very still in the formation after ten months and his desired coalition finally arrived. Everything has to change so that everything stays the same. My big criticism is not about one point more or one point less in the agreement. I'll hold, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u319	Tomorrow, the Cabinet will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u320	The Prime Minister will speak tomorrow. It's okay now, too. It is significant that he still feels called to say something about it now. Everything has to change so that everything stays the same. In the end, I see a system that concerns me, namely that capital must always win. You see that in a lot of places. Growing power inequality is the great fissure in our society. In the election campaign it was said: it all gets left, the whole politics goes left, look at the election programmes! Even Mark Rutte pressed the button in RTL's debate to increase the load on the higher abilities. If I am critical of the fact that the bill is being passed on to future generations, then I am not talking about the level of expenditure. It is very good that we are spending a lot of money on tackling climate change, education and solving the nitrogen problem. My criticism is that there is no income against capital being taxed more heavily. That was a promise in the election campaign and it is not being kept. The transfer of the financial account means that if you do not put the account there, the future hairdressers, the future care workers and the future teachers who are going to pay the bill. Isn't it a good thing the minimum wage goes up? Fantastic, really. It is not the step we would like to take, but it is an important step. But let's put it in perspective: the minimum wage goes up €6 per day for people who work, while doing nothing on paper makes €200 per day richer if you own a house. That's why people want to own multiple houses. That's why our housing market is under pressure, and that's not gonna happen. I had expected and hoped that not only more money would be invested, or that the right words would be used, but that we would dare to change something structurally. I had hoped that we would say here in The Hague: the income you earn from hard work is taxed as heavily as the income you earn from capital. It didn't happen. I had hoped that we would ask the most wealthy people, the millionaires and billionaires who have become even richer in this crisis, to pay 2% of their wealth in tax every year. That didn't happen. I am glad that people are talking about housing, but in the end it is only another language if you do not intervene structurally. Everything has to change so that everything stays the same. Investing 7.5 billion is fantastic. That's great. I also find it encouraging that the cabinet says: we must ensure that the middle groups are protected by rent protection. It cannot be explained that in a large city you have to pay €1500 per month for a small room. It's become priceless. But this phrase also included: we should not deter institutional investors. I can still see the footage of Stef Blok. I believe it was at a real estate fair in Hong Kong or Singapore. That's what we were trying to get investors here. We are one of the most rich countries in the world. We are, I believe, the seventeenth economy of the world. And we need to hold hands in Dubai, Singapore and Hong Kong, and ask people here to invest in building houses. That won't be necessary. We should do that ourselves. Then ask yourself: why do we have social housing only for a small group? Shouldn't all housing be social? Shouldn't we ensure that in the Netherlands the construction of all housing by organisations is called housing corporations non-profit-making? Then we'll deal with the corona crisis. There is not so much in the coalition agreement about this, but there is one thing: pandemic preparedness. Is it wrong what's in there? No, it's really good that we're looking at how we can scale up in care, so we can catch more peaks. It is really excellent that we are trying to import mouth masks not only through the Sywerts of this world from China, but that we can also produce them here in the Netherlands and Europe. That we do not depend on a single region in China and India for our medicines, but that we want to do so here in Europe. That's not pandemic preparedness, but that's strategic independence. That's good; I'm not against that. But real pandemic preparedness would have been if we acknowledged that our dealings with nature were completely disturbed. Then it was written in the coalition agreement that Esther Ouwehand has been right for years. Then her booklet had been added as an attachment. Then it was written that we are really putting an end to the industrial way of dealing with animals in this country. It didn't happen. Then climate. Really compliments on the amount of money that is being spent on this. Jan, I'm looking forward to working with you. I miss Rob, but if he had to leave the Chamber, he'd better go to the Department of Climate. I have enormous confidence in this new minister. But there's not much to agree on about spending this money. You can say it's nice that we get to talk about that. Thank you. That is what we are going to do, but how do we ensure that this does not become a big prize with subsidy money for the biggest polluters? It seems as if in the cabinet's plans the big polluters are not going to have to pay extra but to receive it. They have been able to emit for free over the last few years, and now we are going to help them with that changeover. Then there is often reference to the plans of GroenLinks and the green industrial policy. Yeah, that's right. But if you read correctly, we had a CO tax that also collected money here in the Netherlands. Not only through ETS, not only through margin charging, but who simply raised money. That money goes one-on-one back to those companies to help them. It's not gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the governance culture. That's a big topic. I'd like to split it up into threes. For me, the culture of governance is about how we decide here in The Hague, about the democratic rule of law and about openness and transparency. I'll start with the decision-making. I have said it many times in this room: every time there is a problem, we call Herman Tjeenk Willink. I think it's a miracle he's gonna show up when we call, because we don't really listen. He'll come and explain something to us. He says in his characteristic way, very patiently, with all the knowledge and experience he has: "Listen carefully. You have to agree on the problem first. Then you have to agree on the goals, then on the resources you are using, and then on the budget." But when I look at the coalition agreement, I see all kinds of budgetary choices without knowing what purpose is being pursued or what is the shared analysis that lies underneath. Take education, for example. I think it's fantastic that a billion dollars goes to odds. But how do I know 1 billion is enough if there's no analysis underneath it? Maybe it's too much. The same applies to the compensation of the loan system. There's just an amount taken and it's been said: this is what we have left for those students. But what's the reason we're sticking to a billion dollars? Is it justified that it's only one billion, or should it be much more? Or is it bullshit that we're sending money there at all? There will be 25 billion for nitrogen. The objective is clear, but no choice has been made as to the instruments. In the end, if we really have to, are we going to have to buy out or not? That's the side where we spend money. I fear that, because of the lack of clear targets, we will eventually be able to get back to the cow trade here in the House of Representatives. 1 billion divided by five parties with which you may have to do business; that is 200 million each. Then you can choose what you want. That's not a new governance culture. Here's what I'm gonna say. My party will never agree to that. We want to solve real problems, not political problems. That means: if we need more money for education, we will invest more, but if we can do it with less, we must do it. I have often said it in interrupting debates: sometimes the opposite is true. That is not often the case; in almost everything there is money, but not in some crucial places. I find it really incomprehensible that 500 million savings are being made on youth care. I would really like to ask: please take it off, not because there could never be any cuts, but because there is no plan underneath it either. You have to have a plan first. First comes the content, and then you have to decide what amount can be against it. It has been a long time this morning about the democratic rule of law and how important it is that we defend it. In a society, there is a way to resolve our differences peacefully. That is in the democratic rule of law. At a time when there are political parties and other forces undermining the democratic rule of law and seeing the seat legs, the road to violence is open, because there is no other way to resolve these differences of opinion. We must fundamentally disagree here, debate the sharpest of the cuts and sometimes even go there. But those boundaries are sacred. It is not a political opinion; that is what we should all stand for. We have to draw a hard line for everyone who goes over it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say something to the new team. It is a pity that I cannot address everyone, but I think all ministers are watching. I hope they're watching, or else they can read it. Something of a culture of fear has arisen here in The Hague, as if mistakes should not be made. Making mistakes is human. That's what I'm supposed to do. Everywhere you work, mistakes are made. I would like to give the Ministers: do not be afraid to make a mistake. And if you make that mistake and honestly bring it to the House of Representatives, then you can expect reasonableness from us. Then you can expect us to see if you could really do something about it and exactly what happened, that we are not gonna threaten right away, that we are not gonna ask for the head of the minister right now. At the same time, I also say: if mistakes come here in the House of Representatives after megalong questions, after lengthy Wob procedures, then as far as I am concerned, the time of final warnings is over. Then the end is trust. But if you are honest if you encounter anything in a ministry, even if it belongs to your predecessors, and if you honestly bring it directly to the House of Representatives, you can expect all reasonableness from my group. Finally, Mr President. There is an important task ahead of you. I wish you every success in that and I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u321	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u322	Madam President. I just left something on the train. That could happen. There was someone who had found it and was kind enough to deliver it somewhere, but it came back to me via a huge detour. The nice thing in its aftermath was that church historian Paul of Spirit was kind enough to give me a statue of Saint Anthony. Mrs Ploumen comes from Noorbeek, deep in South Limburg, and knows who Sint-Antonious is there for. That's the saint you call upon when you're looking for lost objects. So I've got Saint Anthony on my desk now, and he's gonna guide me. I'm just too much Protestant to be absolutely sure that he's helping me with everything I'm losing, but maybe he can help us in the next period to remember. There are people we must not forget and there is a way of working that we must not forget. So let us hope for the help of Saint Anthony to continue to remember what it is about. It's about working together, working together. This country has grown in size because, despite very large, profound differences, political struggle and, indeed, Mrs Marijnissen! In the end, ideological clashes end up sitting around that table and saying, "Oh, we have to get out of it; we still have to settle our differences." That is why we also have Article 23, for example, the freedom of education. That is not a toy of confessional parties and that is not the defense of schools that I happen to like very much, but a vision of society: that school is not from the government, but from the parents. Space for difference; for that our heart beats and for that you need cooperation. That's why we have a polder and that's why we're a coalition country. That is why, after months of political infertility and inability to work together, we, as the Christian Union, have said: it must not be up to us. That's why I'm here. But I'm not standing here as a member of the fan club of the cabinet that sits there. I stand here as one of the 150 members of this Chamber, who controls the government and is a co-legislator and has a responsibility there. That is why I hope that there will be a sharper distinction between the Chamber and the Cabinet and that there will be a less sharp distinction between coalition and opposition. We're gonna have to work together. That also requires something of our style, and that also requires something of openness. The coalition agreement also gives that openness, but we will have to seek that freedom of debate. My first question to the cabinet concerns the position of the Chamber in relation to the funds. There's a lot of billions in there. Questions have been asked about this too. The Court of Auditors also asks this question: how does that affect the Court's budget law? I would like the House to retain its position and that we can all continue to exercise full control over it. We shouldn't forget the people who dropped out. Sometimes I go too much with Mr Heerma and we read the same researches, namely the Atlas van Afhaakt Nederland, by René Cuperus and Josse de Voogd, which actually make very insightful about who it is. There are very specific places; the map is also really physically made. There you see dark places, often on the edges of our country, where people simply no longer believe that the government is there for them, no longer believe that you can trust each other and that we here in this country take care of each other and no longer believe that working together makes you stronger. They see that there are others who win and that it is they who lose. There are groups where basically everything comes together: low income, poverty, debt, poorer housing and worse health, those two have to do with each other at times, less security in the labour market and little hope. There's a middle class under pressure. These are families who can only make ends meet and who are now looking with fear and trembling at inflation and at the rising energy bill. We have seen the billing of the Nibud, with all the minions, which Mr Omtzigt so pictured here. They look at it with fear and tremble. We see older people, who are indeed declining in purchasing power. Madam President. The coalition agreement states that there must be a balanced purchasing power picture, which is good for everyone. That's a promise and an effort. My question is whether that is indeed the guiding principle and the anchor when the cabinet starts making choices about purchasing power and whether the Netherlands can count on us to do so. I'll keep thinking about these groups. I won't forget these groups. Maybe Saint Anthony will help me do that. That is why we have taken this step. We will assess government policy very specifically on the impact on these groups. That's why we're moving from a housing market to housing. Houses aren't profit factories, they're places to live, to start a family and to live. That is why we abolish the landlord's tax, so that homes, including rentals, remain affordable and available. I am very pleased with the ambitions in climate policy. This is a sign of good care for creation. But the urgent and necessary energy transition must take place in a social way. I spoke with Mr Marijnissen about the threat of energy poverty or, as she said, climate justice. The SP also warns against the threat of energy poverty. That is why this year there is a lot of money going to reduce the energy bill and we are really going to work on insulation. That's gotta get there where it's most needed. That is why we are also increasing the legal minimum wage and assistance. That is why we are abolishing the loan system and re-entering the basic grant, so that young people are not burdened with debt, but can go back to college with care and hope. That is why we are stepping up the fight against poverty and debt and, for example, abolishing the cost sharing standard, which does not keep people together, but drives them apart. That has to end. We need each other. We need to take care of each other. That's why we make the choices we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u323	Excuse me. You have no more interruptions, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u324	I called Saint Anthony and he said I could ask a question!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u325	This is very creative, but I have to be as strict. The same goes for the other colleagues. I'm really trying to say that everyone has an equal number of interruptions. I just apprehended you about that, too. Excuse me, but despite the help from above, I say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u326	Mr President, I find it problematic, because we now have Mr Segers...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u327	No, no, Mrs Ploumen. There are a number of other colleagues who have already said it, so I really need to set the bar somewhere. That's this one. Excuse me. I call Mr Segers. In the morning there was a point of order and a personal fact. I also said that I do not count it. I got rid of all of them. You just asked an extra question. It's really gone now. Sorry, Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u328	I think we need to find another time to talk about Saint Anthony. Then as a Catholic from South Limburg you should explain what role he plays in your life. We're gonna talk at another time. Madam President. If we are thinking about parts of the Netherlands that have been abandoned, then there is one province that I would like to mention in particular. That's Groningen. Yesterday afternoon I had a digital meeting with members of our party and representatives, mainly from Groningen and partly from Friesland and Drenthe. What has remained with me are not so much the very concrete complaints, but above all the despair and the deep disappointment that there was: do they see us? It took a torch ride to make it clear again: "Look at us. Listen to us." I find that painful. I find it painful to see that in my own party, to see that people doubt whether we see them. But I also find it painful to see where that extra gas extraction came from. Was there really no alternative? It is so contrary to the decision of the previous cabinet. I also find it complicated what the Prime Minister said, namely that there could also be a risk with security. Is that right? That's impossible, isn't it? If we have a balance between gas extraction and safety, doesn't safety always have to have the primacy? Can he explain that again? It is good that the cabinet has raised the budget for the subsidy scheme for the Groningen houses, but it was painful and embarrassing to see how people had to line up. They've experienced it as humiliating. It was painful that there had to be a fuss before that arrangement was completed. The bottleneck was inadequate. Think also of the timing of decisions. Just before Christmas, there was the decision to move the child's heart centre. And then there was Minister Blok, who announced on the last day of his term that this gas extraction is going up. Make a fresh start here, too. I am pleased that there is a special ruler for Groningen and for what is called "Mining." Secretary of State Vijlbrief went to Groningen and had good talks there. I'm happy about that. But how can the recovery and strengthening operation be accelerated and improved? That's the question. Wouldn't it be a good thing if the executive also physically kept office for part of the week, or parts of the year? For example, I know that the town hall in Slochteren is empty, so that could be a beautiful place. Madam President. It is significant that confidence is the smallest and distrust is the greatest at the edges of our country. That is why I am pleased that, for example, there is a perspective on the Lely line, that there is a physical link between regions. That is why I am pleased that regional deals remain possible, that they will be closed again. It is crucial that the government invests in that region and, together with local authorities, is shoulder to shoulder with that perspective. But make it clear that this cabinet is there for the whole of the Netherlands, not only for the Randstad, not only for the cities, but for everyone. That's my passionate appeal to the cabinet. It is not just a cabinet of and for satisfied people, but for every human being. A cabinet where every person counts. In the study of Cuperus and De Voogd it becomes clear that in addition to the places of mistrust there is also a strip of confidence. Colleague Heerma pointed out the same thing. From Zeeland via parts of Zuid-Holland, Utrecht, the Veluwe, to other parts of Gelderland and Overijssel. Indeed, there is another word for it, namely: the Biblet. That's not a strip where people are just rich. It is not a region with only believers. But it is a strip where many people have not forgotten to see each other, where people trust each other, where there is noaberdom. That is why it is so crucial that that government can be trusted and that that government also trusts its citizens. It is crucial that there are once again counters with serving officials, officials who listen, who take someone by hand and seek until the problem is resolved, and that there are servants. That is why it is so important that what has often been made subordinate and often not interesting is now a priority of the cabinet, namely: implementation. The point is that the basis is restored and there is room for human measure in legislation, that an exception can be made if it is simply not just, if it is not true. There must be a basis on which trust can flourish. That is why a good income is needed. You need to be able to live and work. The point is, there's more certainty. There must be room for that society. I told you before: freedom of education is not the toy of confessional parties, but is what the Netherlands is, namely space for difference, space for parents to start their own school. A society without religious stress. A government that is a partner of society. That is why I am pleased that we are continuing social service, the place where young people learn to do something for another and where they are encouraged to see each other. That is why it is a good thing that large law firms also take their share when it comes to social law, that that is not just a hobby of a number of passionate lawyers, but a responsibility of everyone. That is why we in the Christian Union Group also take the pandemic, the virus, as seriously as the social and mental damage in our society in the corona crisis. That is why we as a group are critical of 2G, because it drives people apart and we see much more in measures that require something from all of us, such as testing more often and in more places. Today, an investigation came out that also underlines this. At least what is at odds with working on trust is driving polarization. Those are politicians who talk about the democratically elected government as a totalitarian regime, who talk about the institutions of our rule of law, a fake parliament and fake judges, who talk about the free press baths. Polarisation leads to hatred, to threats, to extra security, to politicians who go from misery to something else, to an unliving society. That is why I would like to ask the cabinet and also propose to do more research into this polarization in the Netherlands, about its costs, but above all about what can be done against it. For example, social media platforms have a responsibility but they do not take it sufficiently. I am very concerned about that. In that strip of confidence also resonates a story Jesus once told. He has a kind of visual story in which there is a king who has before him righteous and unjust. He then speaks to the righteous and says, "You are righteous." When I was thirsty, you gave me a drink. When I was naked, you gave me clothes. When I was in prison, you visited me when I was sick, you visited me, and when I was a stranger, you took me in. But the righteous ask: when then? They had no idea they had done that for the king. Then the king says: you have done so for the slightest of brothers and sisters and therefore for me. This resonates in a bench of Major Bosshardt where a picture of her stands in front of her old house in Amsterdam, in which her image is written in large letters: serving God is serving people, serving people is serving God. I started with St. Anthony. I have now arrived at the Salvation Army via the Biblebelt. I've had the entire ecclesiastical map of the Netherlands by now. But that is not only reserved for Christians. Of course not. This is the beating heart of the Netherlands. Take care of each other, look after each other. If we do that, we can have faith in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u329	Thank you, Mr Segers. There is another interruption by Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u330	Not about St.Antonius, because I have to let others be the superiors, although I do know he also cared about vulnerable people, that some hospitals are named after St.Antonius. There is also a Jellinek Kliniek there today, and that brings me to the subject of drugs, about which Mr Segers just made an interruption at D66, with the question whether these experiments that are now being expanded can also work out well. That answer wasn't very hopeful. That sounded kind of rigid at D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u331	Insufficient openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u332	Insufficient openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u333	Insufficient trust in scientific validity...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u334	However, in the coalition agreement there are texts that these D66s are clever in...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Last time, that was pretty quick with the weed law. While when it comes to an effective prevention approach, such a beautiful ChristianUnion-CDA sentence is not a matter of urgency. So how can the Christian Union ensure that such a preventive approach is pursued with great urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u335	When it comes to the urgency of the weed experiments, I can easily imagine that there is another perception of speed in the D66 group. I think they would have wanted to see a little earlier and more than what was to be seen in the previous period. We've agreed we're gonna experiment and we're gonna see what the effect is. That's what you have to do with an open mind. So the other way around, the question can also be asked to me. I'm skeptical about it. Mr Van der Staaij is right to value that. But if you do, you have to do it seriously, and we do. At the same time, the prevention of drug use has certainly begun. Think of nitrous oxide, for example. That was indeed a bit laughing about at first. It was taken more and more seriously. Why? It was taken seriously, for example, because mayors have said: look what is happening here about health damage, what accidents happen, what effects it has. This has led to restrictions, to legislation, to policies that have contained them. The great thing about these appointments is that we're all there. You read what I read. We will indeed have to work on this prevention. That happens to be with a secretary of state I trust very much. I trust everyone until it turns out otherwise. But I trust this Secretary of State very much. He'll take care of that. So that's an assignment for all of us, and certainly for you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u336	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u337	Yes, Chairman, finally. Laughing gas is indeed an example of the good intentions that have been expressed, but it is still not a law at the moment. The procedure is ongoing. On these issues, too, it is sometimes said that it would be a good idea to go through them, to prevent this problematic use of drugs and to focus more intensively on an active and effective prevention approach. I would like to go with the Christian Union to take real steps there. I think that you and I agree that it is far too slow so far to get that out of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u338	Finally, let me say some binding words about the coalition as a whole. Because when it comes to prevention of abuse and addiction, we all have a serious problem. Everyone wants there to be a good future for young people. You know that addiction, whatever its form, always undermines your own freedom and your own health. In that respect, I do feel serious about everyone. So let's at least work on this, no matter how we think about what is the best approach to drug policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u339	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals. Mr Baudet has resigned, so the person who speaks after Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Dassen, knows that he will then speak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Confidence in politics, in the cabinet, is historically low. I will speak in such a way about a number of factors that can help us to restore confidence. However, I would like to begin by expressing my deep concern, because we are facing unprecedented crises that need to be resolved. It is of the utmost importance that people can trust that their government is telling the truth, that their government will try to solve the problems we face as best as possible. Because that trust is so low, we can all point out what that happened to us. We're not getting off to a good start. Unfortunately. Mr. Chairman. But then I understand from the new coalition that there will be change. Of course, that sounds like music to us. We understand that the new coalition would like to congratulate the opposition for doing things the opposition actually agrees with. So that's what I just want to start with. For example, I think it is very good that half of the new leaders are women. I am very pleased that for the first time a bicultural minister has been appointed to this cabinet. I think it is very good that the basic grant is coming back, that a serious climate policy is finally beginning, with the recognition of nitrogen as a major problem. I think it is very good that a number of changes are being converted. Let me sum it up for you. I would like to pay the greatest compliment to the new minister of OCW, who unfortunately cannot be in trade-K because of the corona measures. Mr Dijkgraaf showed himself very modestly when asked by the press: what are you going to do and how are you going to solve everything? Then he said, "Well, I can only disappoint." I like it when people say that. But he also said: I'm going to be modest, because you need to know what you don't know when you come into a new ministry like that. Then I thought: that's nice, that's a nice, modest attitude. I also thought: there might also be a next step, looking at the history of twenty years of Cabinets led by VVD or CDA. That's that maybe you should want to know what you don't want to know. For example, we need to know that man is not a ruler over nature, but part of nature and fully dependent on how we deal with our ecosystems. If we don't do that right, we're gonna be the scarf ourselves. The corona crisis is only one example of that. We should perhaps also want to know that infinite economic growth on a planet that will not grow along is an illusion and that we urgently need to review our economic system, because we are stuck with our noses against the wall. You might also want to know what mistakes you're making. As long as you fully facilitate the big boys at the top of society, the rest of society will automatically benefit from it. We've seen that over and over and over again. Mr Dijkhoff is no longer in the House of Representatives on behalf of the VVD, but I must compliment him on something beautiful that he has said, namely: as a liberal party, of course, we have always preferred liberal instruments. I can imagine that you first choose liberal ways, but if the outcome is not liberal, if you put the freedoms and perspectives of future generations or people's health at risk now by those liberal instruments, then perhaps you should choose something else. Mr. Chairman. Those things I had hoped for from the new coalition agreement. A reflection on what we have already tried to solve these problems, such as technology, investment, covenants, non-committality, dating companies. What's the result? About a Mount Everest of problems. It takes 25 billion to solve the nitrogen crisis and 35 billion to solve the climate problems. Maybe we should choose other ways. That is the big problem with the coalition agreement: there is a lot of money, but no fundamental change in how we are going to solve the problems, no reflection either. Especially in the case of nitrogen, I am really surprised. I am really surprised that this coalition, a relaunch of the previous coalition, which had presented a nitrogen solution, should now say that more is needed. Then where is the reflection on what went wrong? Mrs Hermans of the VVD said some nice things in her contribution. I hope that the VVD Group will really listen and be open to new ideas. I think that's necessary. I understand that people in the country, farmers, those of VVD and CDA have always been told that there are no problems, now think: 25 billion for nitrogen, what is that really, isn't it? The problems have always been denied and now it has to be resolved. The duty on the cabinet is that, if you have to pull out 25 billion for it, you really have to fix it. That would not have been necessary if you had listened in time and started twenty years ago, so farmers would have had time to switch to sustainable agriculture. Anyway, that didn't happen. The analyses were far from complete, 15 years ago. If you look at all the problems in agriculture, all the goals that need to be met, nature, climate, how we're going to feed our population, you'll see that the number of animals has to shrink by at least 70%. If you don't have the courage to make that choice, 25 billion is a lot of money for not solving the problem. The account is being transferred to the next generation and it still has to solve the problem. The same applies, of course, to the climate. It is good that ambition is now being shown, but it is not 1992 anymore. System choices must now be made. The major polluters themselves will have to pay for their pollution. The cabinet seems to be doing exactly the opposite, at taxpayers' expense. The next generation must pay back that 35 billion and the climate crisis is still running wild. See, that doesn't work, of course. Mr. Chairman. We also miss the fact that the corona crisis has made it even more painful for the cabinet to take a real approach to putting health into one. It has always been said that public health is one thing, but it is never really true. People living in rural areas live next to fields where there's a lot of poison going on. The public health of these people is simply at risk. Why should these companies be allowed to endanger the health of local residents? People living near goat farming are significantly more likely to have pneumonia. There's no interference. The Coca Colas and the McDonalds of this world are allowed to set up people's living environments in such a way that, by definition, they are directed on unhealthy food. They can make billions of dollars laughing at it. The cabinet just lets these companies go their own way. It is alienating to see a discussion about the cost of care without these interventions. So my question to the Prime Minister is: what exactly is going to change? He keeps saying that he understands that people have no confidence and that they say, "Let's see it first." What are we gonna see? I think we're starting today. It is therefore explicitly about the high risk of a next pandemic. You can't present a coalition agreement with just "pandemic preparedness." What's that? That we do have masks now, and Ice beds? That's a good idea, but shouldn't we try to get this shit over us again? Please! We're in the worst avian flu outbreak ever. Virologists are pulling their hairs out of their heads because they don't understand that the cabinet doesn't intervene. There is an opinion from the Bekedam Committee. I ask the Prime Minister: does the new Minister of VWS have the full power to take decisions of this kind today? If a new pandemic has broken out, are we not only prepared to step into civil rights, what the cabinet is doing and as we see in corona, but also to say that in order to protect public health, non-commercial interests can prevail? That would be a good start to restoring trust. I would also like to point out that this has never really been true in public health. The same goes for the people in Groningen. They have always been told that Groninger's safety is paramount. If that's not true, you shouldn't say that. That's what the Animal Party said at the time. This is even more harmful for people who are already in trouble. Unfortunately, last week we had to see that the safety of the Groningen people is indeed not paramount, because contracts with Germany are more important. They could have been demolished a long time ago. It would adorn the Prime Minister and the Cabinet to reflect on that. When you say things to the people all the time that aren't true, it's undermining trust. Mr. Chairman. We hope that the changes we are being told will actually be implemented, but we do not see enough of them. We point to all those experts who haven't been listened to all this time. I call Johan Vollenbroek, who knew what the nitrogen crisis was like. He is warning again about a parliamentary survey on wasted nitrogen billions. The cabinet can't make that mistake. We are pointing out with the General Court and the Council of State that the use of the funds must be really good. That is not only because the Chamber must be able to control the funds, but also because there is a moral obligation not to burden future generations with these billions and the climate and nitrogen crisis. If you're gonna spend it, you're gonna have to fix it. The Party for Animals has a number of ideas for that. The fundamental choice is to actually make the polluter pay. Give the Minister of Climate and Energy a right of veto in the Council of Ministers. I wonder if that's settled. The Minister of Finance can always say: no, this is not going to happen; these plans are too expensive and we cannot afford to pay them. The Minister of Climate should be able to say: these plans are at the expense of our climate ambitions, so wailing, they are not going to happen. How are these relations in the new cabinet? As far as we are concerned, this also applies to the Minister for Health, who, of course, cannot be overruled by the interests of LNV. Those kinds of choices, Mr. Chairman. If the Prime Minister thinks the trust is coming back, because we're going to see change, then the Party for the Animals is very curious. We'd say start today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u341	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of Volt, congratulations to the new cabinet, in particular to the newcomers in The Hague. I wish you and your colleagues every success. Mr. Chairman. The new Foreign Minister, Wopke Hoekstra, made a flying start in his new role. He said: whether it is climate change, the health crisis or the threats at European borders, the challenges of the 21st century are cross-border and demand cross-border solutions. This principle applies, of course, to many more Members of this House, I can see Mr Rutte nodding. Whether it is about inequality, digitisation, innovation, crime or infrastructure, we have not been able to admit it enough over the last ten to twenty years. In the choices we make, we depend on Europe and the rest of the world. If we do not recognise this, the Netherlands will be in danger of becoming stuck. Mr. Chairman. Trust in politics is already low. Liberal democracy is under pressure. There is a worrying amount of violence towards police officers, aid workers and caregivers. Politicians are threatened and intimidated. That is unacceptable and we will have to continue to speak on it. We will have to restore confidence in politics. Listening again to critical institutions such as the Court of Auditors and the National Ombudsman. Seeing them not as an obstacle force, but as a necessary counterpower. Don't frustrate the Wob procedures of our journalism anymore. Inform journalists in good time, so that they can interrogate us in press conferences and make it difficult for us, in other words: to control us. I'd like a response. Is the Cabinet going to do this and, if so, how? The fact that there are big pots of money is a good thing. But I do wonder if money has been the problem for the past ten years. What has been a problem is the lack of detailed analyses and related choices. You can already feel him coming: that too is still missing today. Mr. Chairman. We do not solve the problems if we only keep thinking from our national selves, when we are engaged in rivalry, fighting and short-term. If we forget to take people out of fear of telling them the honest story. A large part of the coalition agreement consists of plans that have long been made in Brussels, including by the Netherlands, for example the roll-out of the loading infrastructure or the kerosene load. My group is pleased to read that the cabinet is also going to implement the EU directives, and all its Member States are obliged to do so, so that seems to me to be a bit of an open door. It is important, however, whether the cabinet will guarantee that the Chamber, including society, will be informed in good time about the European proposals and the negotiations on them, so that we no longer stand here in the Chamber and have to say: oops, we are too early. Or: oops, we're too late. Mr. Chairman. When we look at climate change, we see that it is going through hard everywhere in the world. We lived the seven warmest years ever. And in Limburg, Germany and Belgium we saw the second most expensive natural disaster of 2021 in the whole world. This disaster cost around EUR 38 billion, apart from the dead and wounded and the suffering of the inhabitants who had to leave their homes. Of course, it is very positive that ambition is increasing. I also think this is worth a compliment. But the Planning Office for the Environment warned that with this agreement the goals will not be met. I would therefore like to ask whether, following the example of Germany, the cabinet is prepared to introduce a climate test. I also agree with what has already been said by my colleagues in the area of justice, but I would like to add the European perspective to that. We have a European Green Deal, and yet we see that many decisions are taken nationally. In the Netherlands we are now opening two nuclear power stations, but in Germany and Belgium they are closing. In fact, in the Netherlands we have to pump up extra gas because Germany has to stay with the Dutch gas. This is at the expense of the Groningers, who, with an impressive torch parade, expressed their justified discontent. I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that. This shows that we need to look beyond borders, because the lack of European politics leads to local problems. Is the 35 billion from the Climate Fund also being used to ensure that we engage in cross-border projects, such as the hydrogen strategy that is now being deployed in the Netherlands and which Germany is also working on? And do we also connect the energy networks more closely so that we can have a more efficient European energy mix, with windmills in the North Sea and solar panels in Spain? I would like a response from the cabinet on how this will work in Europe. Mr. Chairman. The strength and effectiveness of our European cooperation must be increased. That cannot be done if one of the 27 Member States alone can block all progress. That is why I am also pleased that the cabinet wants to get rid of the right of veto in international sanctions and human rights violations. But you won't be surprised that I don't think this is going far enough. We must also abandon the right of veto when dealing with tax avoidance. It cannot be the case that large companies in Europe still hardly have to pay taxes. Booking.com, Facebook and other companies play Member States against each other. So introduce a European profit tax. I assume that the new Secretary of State will be working on this in Brussels. Mr. Chairman. With Russia with 100,000 soldiers at the border with Ukraine and Sweden already stationing additional troops in Gotland, we can no longer ignore the fact that we need to take steps towards further defence cooperation. That's what it takes to protect our safety. It is therefore good and good to read that steps are being taken to buy European equipment. That's a lot cheaper too. How is the cabinet going to implement this? What steps will be taken first? How is the cabinet going to ensure that other countries join the ambition to do so in a joint way? What other steps are there to ensure that European defence cooperation will also be looked at more from a European perspective? But we are not there yet, because if we want to break the system open, then we need to restore confidence in politics. We need to take everyone into the big transitions we stand for. The choices we make must be just. It's like Gert-Jan Segers said it so beautifully: tell me how you fill the treasury and spend the proceeds and I'll tell you where your heart beats and what seems to be the good life for you. Mr. Chairman. Possibility has been growing for years. However, I see in this agreement that the income from the rental of a second house or an equity portfolio is hardly going to be taxed extra. The people who become dormant today also have reservations about this. As far as Volt is concerned, we are going to tax capital income more, so that we can reduce taxes on labour. Is the new cabinet prepared to talk about a fairer burden-sharing? If we want to take everyone with us, we must use the power of society on the major issues. Give back control over their own environment, whether it is the construction of new neighbourhoods or the construction of solar panels and windmills. Organize citizen councils where they can come up with solutions together with experts. Following on from Mr Heerma, I would like to ask how the cabinet is working on this. Make sure that municipalities, because all the policies we devise in Europe are carried out locally, have enough money to shape these transitions themselves. The European Union, the national government and the local authorities need each other very much. The climate goal that we agree on in Europe must be implemented by municipalities, for example by isolating houses. How is the cabinet going to better connect these levels of government and listen to the ideas that the municipalities have about the implementation of these plans? Mr. Chairman. We are now about to have the choice: are we going to work together and solve problems or are we going to throw mud and get three more years of standstill? Are we going for a divided or united society? I therefore hope that the cabinet will not leave it with the 77 members of the coalition, but that it will also work with the ideas of the rest of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it earlier: there are many doubts about the precise consequences of the coalition agreement. Would the cabinet therefore like to carry out a generational test on this agreement, so that it is much clearer what the effects will be for future generations? Is the cabinet prepared to look at fair compensation for students who have studied under the loan system so that they do not suffer from an ill-thought-out system? I'd like a response. All these ideas and plans call for constructive cooperation and it cannot and must not be the case that worthy and skilled politicians such as Bart Snels and Wouter Koolmees leave politics partly because of political culture. We are all co-caused by that and we will all have to look in the mirror. Then we can work towards a constructive new start and then we can achieve a lot. I hope to see a start tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. We face enormous challenges and we must once again dare to take political action, to give direction and to take people with us. The effort to find a solution must be as great as the challenge. I wish Prime Minister Rutte as captain of the new cabinet many clear answers and a good memory tomorrow. And Volt hopes for constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u343	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u344	Mr President, good evening. Colleagues, too! The heartfelt congratulations of JA21 for all directors: congratulations. The proverb goes: the more souls, the more joy. We think it is a good thing that the workload is divided among more rulers, but whether it becomes "the more souls, the more joy" we all have to see. We will follow the team critically from JA21 and, Mr. Heerma, for now the benefit of the doubt is with JA21. Show me! But that doubt is widely shared in the country is clear. Only 28% of the electorate says they see Rutte IV and a quarter now thinks he's gonna make it to the finish line. Of course, these are not very good starting figures, but you can also, Mr Rutte, say positively: it can only go up. Of course, it can still go further down. Mr. Chairman. On the substance, we have a number of major problems with Rutte IV. We said it before: on migration, the rusty car is going backwards. I mentioned Mrs Broekers-Knol here sometimes a bit mocking Madame Tussauds because of her total standstill on the asylum dossier and in particular her rigidity when things had to change. But solving the permanent asylum crisis with a number of empty phrases in the asylum agreement and with Erik Van der Burg, we really do see as a problem. According to the statement of Secretary of State Van der Burg about four years ago, 'the more asylum seekers, the better', I went looking. Maybe it was cheerful cynicism or a little out of context. Of course you can. But no, unfortunately they were very serious statements, which were repeated in het Parool in 2019. So it wasn't taken out of context. It was even supplemented by the remark that he is even more popular with the PvdA than with some VVDs. So we have a leftist VVD'er at asylum and that is a disaster for the electoral potential of JA21, of course, from heaven, but for the Netherlands. For the Netherlands a disaster! Rob Jetten on Climate also raises a number of questions and not the question of whether there will be more megawind turbines on land. After all, that is in chapter 1 of the D66 Bible. Above all, we fear too little ambition and decisiveness on the nuclear issue. Or is this minister now familiar with the fact that you can also heat houses really! Nuclear power plants. Otherwise, he'll have to pay a quick visit to Borssele. That's where they can explain it to him. Brussels now officially embraces nuclear energy as green energy. It has a green label just like investing in clean natural gas. Does Minister Jetten fully support this now? I would like to ask the cabinet. Clean natural gas, clean nuclear energy: it is the future rather than the land filled with megawind turbines. I read today that they go up to 270 meters. Furthermore, it can force people to get rid of natural gas instead. Mr President, if I may, I would like to present the JA21 nuclear report to Mr Jetten through the messenger. He'll be able to read himself in. Perhaps I should do it through the Prime Minister or through Mrs Kaag, because I do not know who is or can be the fastest with Mr Jetten. Then he can at least start reading himself into this matter. And for Mr Rutte too, I think it is a good refresher. Now you also read the note I wrote to Mr Jetten, I understand. The appointment of trade ministers and State Secretarys for concrete problems, such as housing and the natural gas problem in Groningen, can be welcomed. But instead of a Minister for Nitrogen, we would have preferred to have seen a Minister for Viability, for human measure, against bureaucracy and for protecting the elderly and old neighbourhoods from continuing decay. And why is there no Minister of Immigration, as in Denmark? In Denmark his name is Mattias Tesfaye. That's a son of an immigrant from Ethiopia. Tesfaye says he wants to prevent the Danish welfare state from being broken down by uncontrolled migration. They seem to succeed there, within Europe, within the rules and within the treaties. Is he a right-wing populist? No. Tesfaye is a PvdA man, you might say. He is a member of the Danish PvdA, the Social Democrats. He says: the common man pays the price for a complete open border policy and not the high-income people. It's the low incomes, the low wages, the workers who pay the price. Another thing that would have horrified the social democracy of the past is the declining prosperity of our elderly. The AOW is no longer linked to the minimum wage. JA21 will not agree to this. Moreover, all pensioners must fear their purchasing power, because there is no indexing of their pensions in the coming years, as in the past ten years. Labour costs in the Netherlands have increased more rapidly in recent years than in the rest of the EU. Tax on income and wealth now comes in almost 70% more than ten years ago. With the VAT we collect EUR 20 billion more than ten years ago. President Reagan already spoke the wise words in the 1980s: the problem is not that people pay too little tax, but that the State spends too much. In the Netherlands the burden increase seems to be the standard recipe for every ailment every time. In the field of justice, I would like to ask the Prime Minister for a directional ruling on the situation of victims. What is meant by "the securing of the victim's position"? And is the Cabinet prepared to set aside money for privacy protection and more compensation for crime victims? We read a lot about Ihbtiq victims and other victims, but little about the huge group of anonymous victims of crime. That's about 900,000. Of these, personal data may end up with the perpetrators. They cannot now count on compensation. Victims of sexual violence now have to wait two years for a verdict. 14% of the victims with the largest and most complex claims are rejected in criminal proceedings, because it is too complicated. That means no compensation, no advance payment and no recovery. What are you going to do about that in concrete terms? A promise to us that the cabinet will come back to that in practice would be all right for me. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of victims, I would like to speak for a moment about one of the largest groups of victims of this corona crisis: our young people. Minister Kuipers mentioned it at the press conference: as many as two thirds of all young people struggle with loneliness. That's a huge number. They are going to impose an even greater burden on our youth-ggz, when for years there has been code black. In the midst of all this trouble, the cabinet thinks: we are not only going to reverse the committed amounts, but we are also going to cut back on youth care. We cannot justify that. We agree with previous speakers who have said that today. JA21 hopes that the cabinet will listen to the opposition, which says from left to right: do not do this to our young people. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands went left into the ditch and has to turn right again to crawl out. JA21 therefore wants to tackle the problems at the root. We are presenting our own, I believe, constructive solutions. That's what we do here, that's what Annabel Nanninga does with her colleagues in the Upper House, that's what we do in Amsterdam, that's what we do in the Provincial States, and that's what we do in Europe. That's a tough fight sometimes, but we think we can do it. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to close with five tips to the new cabinet. The first tip is about the enormous waste that threatens billions of expenditure. That is not something only JA21 says, but also supported by economists, by experts. With every euro you spend, please indicate what you want to see coming back. Minister Kaag spent a lot of money in her life, at the UN and so on, but now she has to guard and manage the treasury. That is indeed a good task. Tip two. Give room for good proposals. That seems to be an open door, but the Prime Minister has said that the mutual understandings are very valuable to me. This includes taking the opposition's proposals seriously and keeping them under consideration, and meeting them wherever possible. On behalf of 5 million voters, I would like to thank you for that. I think it's more important to do this than cancel a coalition meeting on Monday, or the Tower meeting. It's actually about the butter with the fish. Three. Dare to accept political and social reality, and so do not muddle with things that are doomed to failure. It will certainly give you credit. Tip four is a message for all ministers. Don't worry too much about the junk, the misery, the insults and the idiots on the Internet. Wherever you can, ignore it. When they go low, you go high. I would like to pass that on to the ministers. I'd like to bring my dad in, too. My father has the spell: but dyn duty and lit de lju mar rabje. Then Mr. Heerma probably knows what I'm saying. No? No Frisians in the hall? It means do your duty and let the lads chat. Tip five. The last tip. Whatever happens in the future in the field of corona, please keep the schools open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u345	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u346	Madam President, do you recognize the following quote? "If some kind of snake sheds your skin, I don't believe in it at all." For those who don't have it anymore: Prime Minister Rutte said this shortly before Christmas in De Telegraaf. For me that was actually an image that lingered. The Prime Minister is now saying from Box K that that was not the intention, but that is because I have been in the circumstance that I have experienced the miracle of a skinning snake more than once at close range. To explain: a reptile party that got out of hand once brought two graceful corn snakes into the Van der Staaij house. Watch out for reptile parties! I can tell you that peeling such a snake is truly spectacular. First, you don't eat a snake like that anymore. That tail looks listless to itself and looks very sad, gray and dull. But then suddenly, in a wondrous twist, that snake crawls out of its old skin and a beautiful new shiny skin pops up. The beast immediately shows an unprecedented new lust for life and beautiful fresh colours. In short, you'd say it looks like new momentum. And unlike what he suggests with this quote, Prime Minister Rutte is very good at painting. After Rutte I, II and III last week the fourth shiny piece was visible on the border. With regard to the furrowing to Rutte IV I do have some questions about the long duration of the formation and about the large skin. First about the long formation time. We all say that this must be done more quickly from now on, even in order to have more reign. But what does the Prime Minister think is necessary for that? As early as April, I tabled a motion with Mr Segers to explicitly include the new role for the Head of State, the King, in the evaluations of this formation. That motion was accepted by the Chamber in the middle of the night. We're curious about the outcome. This new skin has also grown considerably: more ministers than ever. With a snake, it's normal for that skin to be bigger, but not in a cabinet. My question to the reformer is therefore: how did you come to do that? Why didn't more State Secretarys be elected instead of new ministers? Because these Secretary of State are actually a bit invented to relieve ministers. Madam President. The Prime Minister certainly had a point when he said that we should not assume that everything would suddenly be completely different. At the same time, there is a huge challenge to regain the trust of citizens and businesses in the government. The question is how this new team is going to handle this. What's really new? What is really strikingly new is the huge, astronomical budget that has been allocated to deal with the problems. You could say: the new snake skin shines from the euro signs. New problem, new fund. But we are concerned about the price tag attached to these plans. The impartial mathematicians put their finger on the sore spot in the pass-through, for which thanks: the cabinet plans increase the financial burden for the young people of today and tomorrow. The young people of today and tomorrow must also be able to get that good care and safety that is needed, without this leading to enormous burdens. Of course, the cabinet also makes choices that we wholeheartedly support, such as additional investment in defence, security and maintenance of roads and bridges. I'd like to add that. But not everything can always and everywhere. Money doesn't have to be the lubricating oil to run a bumping coalition engine. We therefore call for a tighter financial framework and proper monitoring of the Court's budget law. What's really new? Renewal is also promised in the administrative culture. No more coalition talks on Monday, but more debate in the Chamber itself. It will be waiting to see if the tube doesn't just twist itself into new turns again, because google just for a moment on "tower talk," as it used to be called. The newspapers were full of them twenty years ago: "Torentjesverleging is abolished." VVD leader Zalm was very clear during a parliamentary debate on a new coalition agreement: "I'm not going to eat a sandwich there every week. If Balkenende wants to discuss something, he will come to me." There! So things have been abolished more often. How would that work in practice? You can sometimes have full reflections about it, but you can also ask a simple test question. If at some point there is a sensitive subject attached to it by the cabinet, take 2G, for example, where you cannot go in without vaccination or proof of recovery; I fervently hope that there will never be any such law says: the cabinet looks forward to the opposition of parliament? And is there really no pressure on parties, on coalition parties, to join in? I'm curious. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to a striking feature of the coalition agreement, something that may be called new. That is that despite the thickness of the coalition agreement on a number of important questions that are currently being discussed, there is not a clear direction to be taken and there are important open ends to it. This applies to certain parts of medical ethics, to the precise scope of freedom of education, but certainly also to a subject such as corona. I was wondering, however, if the Prime Minister would like to go into this further, how is it that so little has been agreed on the subject of corona, while the choices about corona have given rise to such a stalemate of confidence and are unprecedentedly profound. It's about whether your store can stay open, whether you can go to college as a student, and whether you can choose to prick yourself, yes or no. Where is the long-term vision that was promised before? Mr. Chairman. I think the approach to corona is a good example, because it is about more than just corona. It is also about the fundamental question of how this cabinet sees its own responsibility alongside that of society itself. If you walk around here a little longer, as the Prime Minister, of course, does, you will find some old quotes that you think are pretty well put. In the debate in 2007, opposition leader Mark Rutte said very nicely: "A debate on the government statement should focus on the societal vision of the cabinet present here." Well, that's a nice thing to say. What exactly is this vision of society? Can the Prime Minister answer that? We see in the formulation of the coalition agreement a strong liberal, individualistic stamp. We are curious about the vision of the role of the community, of the family as a fundamental unit of life. What shows that looking after each other and giving citizens room for what they consider important is now more concrete? Think, for example, of the carers, who also occupy an important place in this caring society. Mr. Chairman. We also note that this is not so much about the coalition agreement, but rather about the whole social and political debate that is now being discussed more and more rapidly about 'crisis' on all kinds of issues: corona crisis, climate crisis, asylum crisis, housing crisis, nitrogen crisis. This crisis inflation does something, because anyone who speaks in harsh crisis terms and is expecting to look at the strong government as the great problem solver provokes a centralist government that is taking ever more drastic measures. We call for more moderation, more modesty, more tailor-made work and more space for society itself and also for fellow governments: provinces and municipalities. Today a number of times it emerged that municipalities feel pretty bad because old agreements on youth care are not being complied with. How is the cabinet going to make up for this and that? How is Rutte IV prevented from becoming a centralist crisis cabinet? That's actually my overarching question. Madam President. What are the citizens and entrepreneurs going to notice about this new cabinet? Is safety really going to increase noticeably? For the farmer and the fisherman, who are murmuring all the changes, is the renewed nitrogen target not yet again a recipe for frustration and mistrust? Families, in particular the single-earners and the AOW'ers, are looking at their wallet as worried about losing more money for energy and food. How does the government handle purchasing power? Several Cabinets-Rutte have, of course, come by. At the presentation of the cabinet I thought for a moment: do you know who I miss? That hardworking Dutchman. That hardworking Dutchman, who was also going to share in the prosperity, always came along at the presentation of previous Cabinets. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does he show that he also sees these citizens? Many of those hard-working Dutch people, of those ordinary citizens, voted a little bit right last time, because they want to deal with climate problems but in a way that can also be achieved, because they do want to help people in need but do not want mass immigration and because they want to deal with problems with other countries but not by constantly transferring powers to Europe. My question to the Prime Minister is: how do you show that you also see these citizens? And is my impression that on the new skin the national tricolor is less visible and that federal thinking is stronger? Madam President. What's and does it really have to change? In the language of the Bible, there is a beautiful expression for material change that goes beyond a new sheet, namely a new heart, passing on the old man and putting on a new person. That is an inner renewal, a mind to love God and the neighbors, to observe good rules of the Creator's life. That is what we need: not a new skin, but a new heart; not just looking at each other and looking forward to the future, but also looking up. In this light, we will certainly support cabinet plans as SGP, but there will also be plans that we cannot live with. We also lack plans to improve the legal protection of vulnerable lives and to combat abortion and euthanasia more intensively. In these areas, too, we will continue to come up with initiatives ourselves. Finally, Mr President. The SGP warmly wishes the cabinet wisdom in the responsible task. The snake is often a negative symbol in the Bible, connected with evil and sin. On the other hand, Jesus Christ is called as the medicine against the poison of the serpent, but He himself also took the serpent as an example when He told his followers not only to be sincere as the pigeons, but also to be careful as the serpent. I would also like to extend this sincerity and caution to all members of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u347	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank those Members who wished me success and congratulate the rulers. I notice that they listen very carefully and also show real interest. I like that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte spoke of his mother; I liked that story. Mr Heerma spoke of his father. Then I can't stay behind. I have a wide choice: I come from a family of nine children and two parents. So I can draw on that for the next eleven contributions. Mr. Chairman. I have six sisters, all wearing headscarfs. They do that with pride. That eldest sister of mine is a hell of a guy. They all are, but they're definitely the oldest. In addition to caring for five children, she works in a pharmacy. For the last two years, she's worked in a big hospital. She runs a lot of double shifts. I like that, but she did tell me that every time the House of Representatives talked about people with headscarfs, she always had a problem with them. It happened once in a while that a customer was standing in line and shouting something of it. A while ago she told me that there was a customer in line who snapped at her: I don't want to be helped by a headscarf! She was startled. She looked him right in the eye, because my sister is a boss, so she'll be fine. She said, "Mr. De Jong, it's been the umpteenth time you've come to get medicine for your blood pressure. If I wanted to hurt you, you wouldn't be here in a long time. Shall I get your medicine now? For otherwise there is no one to help you, I fear." That's how Rotterdam works: short and just do your job. You'll see. She'll be fine. But it hit me and it got close. I thought: how would many women with headscarves have listened to this morning's debate, knowing that words matter? How would those 1.4 million people of dual nationality have looked at their Chamber, in which they were once again accused? That stuck with me. I was not very satisfied myself and not very proud. I thought it was an ugly debate. Then I'm thinking, can we do that differently? I keep wrestling with that. I invite colleagues to reflect on this from time to time. Mr. Chairman. I also thought: how would the group of 150,000 people, children and parents, who were destroyed in the premium crime have experienced this debate? 'Cause it's actually an anniversary, too. A year and three days ago, the Rutte cabinet had to resign because of unprecedented injustice. I was wondering, how would all these people be? Because today the main players, Rutte and Kaag, are making a start on Rutte IV. It's kind of painful. It is as if not so much has changed for them, but for all those parents and children, at least for many, it is waiting for help. How would all those Dutch people who suffer daily from the housing shortage have looked at the government statement today, now that Rutte has been causing a housing crisis that is unprecedented for 12 years with conscious policy? Since I was in the Chamber, these circumstances have been pointed out almost every year. This morning he told me he's going to provide sufficient and affordable housing. What would it be like with all those people who have been destroyed by the tough policy in the Participation Act? If you get messages from your mother or your brother, you'll be cut short. Then you have to give back all the money you get as a benefit. What would it be like with all those people who are in uncertainty because of the fluctuating flexibility in the labour market? These people have been abandoned by politics for years. That's about 4 million people. These are the losers of market forces, e.g. the Netherlands. For them, our country is not a cool country, but rather a humiliating country. They must be patient in watching Rutte change every time as a kind of political chameleon. I wonder: what brings this coalition agreement to these groups of people? Will they finally get a fairer share of the prosperity? Mr. Chairman. Do Dutch people have faith in this cabinet? The theologian and philosopher Martin Buber wrote a long time ago: "The man who is in crisis often no longer trusts a conversation, because the most important condition for that, the trust, has disappeared for him." For 12 years Rutte and especially his behaviour in the last year have ensured that only three out of ten Dutch people trust this cabinet. That is also at the heart of today's debate. How can our leaders sit there, while seven out of ten Dutch people have no confidence in them? What is this cabinet going to do to restore this trust? Is that really realistic when you see that only one in four Dutch people sees this cabinet sitting on the road? In all honesty, I am one of those Dutch who says: whatever is said there, whatever they promise, I just don't trust it. Do you think it's crazy? I too have been obstructed in this house for years, lied to. This has made the honourable and wonderful work of the people's representative very difficult. We now have that promise of a new way of working, of honest information, of being transparent. Mr. Chairman. There are many more groups who are suspicious. Take the students. They're being saddled with $20,000 in student debt. For seven years, political parties in this house have defended the loan system. I've been fighting it since 2016. For seven years young people from D66 and other parties were told: the €20,000, that's good. Only now, as was the case with the housing crisis, when the effects of that system become painfully visible after seven years, because our young people are suffering from stress, depression and burn-outs, will there finally be room to abolish that loan system. But it won't be for two years, and it's gonna be for bad compensation. For those victims of that debt system, a small tip of EUR 1 billion will be made available. EUR 12 billion has been cut over their backs. Against all agreements, this €20,000 student debt will also count if you want a mortgage. I understand young people don't trust Kaag and Rutte. Take the people who are suffering from the housing crisis. Think of the people who cannot pay their rent, who still live at home because the houses are too expensive or who are locked up in a small house. They have had to hear from the political parties of the previous coalition for years: "We are not going to introduce rent protection. We're not going to abolish that landlord's tax." Only now, after seven years, now that billions of people have been defrauded in social housing, will there be room to abolish that landlord's tax. Why not intervene when it's too late? Why dampen the well when the calf almost drowned? The CDA, the VVD, D66 and the Christian Union have done so little over the past four years, creating an unprecedented housing crisis. The VVD has sold out the social housing to foreign grasshopper investors, with only one goal: money, Jarra, floes, canvas. For years, she's put the housing market in trouble. I understand that Dutch people suffering from the housing crisis have no confidence in Kaag and Rutte. Mr. Chairman. You'll only be a retired man, someone who helped build this country, one of our elders. If there's one group that's been totally neglected in the last ten years, it's our elders. Every year, with every budget, Dutch elderly people had to watch their purchasing power decline. They had to watch their pension not indexed. They had to watch how life of an AOW became less and less possible. They had to watch them get cut short by cutting-edge VVD policies when they went to live with their children. We know the stories in the nursing homes about pajama days, because there wasn't enough money to wash and dress our elders. And they're getting caught again. It is unacceptable for DENK to release the link between the AOW and the minimum wage. How you deal with the elderly is a sign of civilization. That was the basis for the coupling in 1980. Mr. Chairman. The elderly will then also be dismissed with an increase in the old-age discount. According to the CPB, this is not going to help the most vulnerable groups, namely those with a very low income. What do you mean, the elderly are being compensated? It's not true. 800,000 people are not compensated. I get it well that as a Dutch elder you no longer have any faith in Kaag and Rutte. Mr. Chairman. Take the people who work in the care, people who in recent years had to hear tear-making stories in this Chamber from parties who expressed their appreciation; they were called heroes. They've seen how there's been a clap in this room. And now this coalition decides to cut back 4.5 billion on healthcare. It's just called cutting back. You can call it what you want, you can twist all kinds of corners with all kinds of Hague jargon, but a cut is a cut. If money that would normally go to care doesn't go to care anymore, it's called a cut-back. The occupation standard in the nursing homes is released. That just means less hands on the bed. You'd say we learned something from the corona crisis, that we need to invest in our care, in our ic. It's not civilisation when people have to avoid the hospital because they have to make costs, is it? What we see is that the towering own risk of €385 is simply maintained. That was handed over by the CDA and the Christian Union just like four years ago. I understand very well that as a care worker, you have no faith in Kaag and Rutte. And you'll only be a Dutchman who's being discriminated against. I see great intentions. I heard Mr. Rutte, and I didn't know what I heard about him trying to put an end to internship market discrimination and housing market discrimination. 92% of the brokers are willing to discriminate. I was ashamed of that, three years ago. It is good that politicians speak warm words, but I am also thinking of a meeting with Mr Donner. From him I learned: don't believe my words but look at my budget. And when you look at that budget, you come out cheated. No funds are allocated to combat discrimination. A small half million euros are allocated as agency costs. I understand very well that people who are discriminated against have no confidence in that and say, "See first, then believe." How are Dutch people supposed to trust a coalition and a cabinet that's going to digest pot in a way I've never seen in this Chamber? Because in financial terms, this coalition agreement is the most amazing thing that has ever appeared. The coalition parties promised an average of EUR 7 to 8 billion of additional public expenditure in 2025. How that happened, I don't know, but suddenly it's going to be 29 billion. And fortunately, the CPB says: we don't find the 3 billion credible, we count 26. For instead of trading out, there has been a miraculous multiplication. How is that a compromise? If one wants four and the other eight, you're not gonna come out at 26, are you? That's weird, isn't it? Lots of expenses without cover. At present, the public debt is €30,000 per Dutchman. With this policy, the coalition will ensure that every resident of the Netherlands will soon be left behind with a debt of more than €100,000. The CDA wrote in his election programme: free money does not exist, we have to repay every euro ever. I think this cabinet really thinks there's free money. All those Dutch people who are dealing with high burdens, with the rising shopping prices, with the energy bill that cannot be paid, were eagerly looking forward when they heard the coalition's promise that everyone should make progress. I just heard a colleague from the coalition say here I think it was Mr Heerma saying: on average everyone is getting better. And I thought, of course, that's not possible, because everyone can't make average progress. Either you're getting better on average or everybody's getting better on it, but "on average, everybody's getting better on it" is complicated to me. I also thought I heard Mrs Hermans say that everyone is making progress. That seems really complicated to me. So I'd like to know, but that's kind of a reverse interruption. With a Nibud calculation, this cabinet managed to get every group of Dutch people, all 116 of them to go backwards. I don't think I've ever been able to do that in the five years that I'm the spokesman for finance and I'm in this Chamber. I understand that if you see that financial policy, that responsible fiscal policy should be, you won't have faith in Kaag and Rutte. It's embarrassing, of course. It is shameful that people have suffered from the loan system, the landlord levy and the neglect of purchasing power. People don't trust that. Finally, Mr President. As a member of the constructive opposition, I have appointed myself such a person as a positive force in this Chamber, on behalf of DENK, I will support good plans and make constructive proposals to make them even better. Where the plans are bad, DENK will offer an alternative with full conviction. We will fight for a fairer and just Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u349	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to the new cabinet. I hope you can do your job in a very pleasant and safe way, with a clear look. At the same time, I am also concerned about the cabinet. I read the coalition agreement and I think there is something going on in terms of eye problems. The Prime Minister said it already in 2017: for vision you have to go to the ophthalmologist. But apparently he hasn't made that appointment yet, because the clear vision is missing. Clear vision of a future vision for the Netherlands. Clear insight into the integral link and social cohesion between policy areas. Clear understanding of demographic developments and their impact. It's not here. Unfortunately, this is not only significant for this cabinet, but for many Cabinets before that. That's why we're having a housing crisis. That is why we are breaking our heads about the affordability and accessibility of care, the sustainability of our pension system and the enormous problems surrounding the climate. Lack of clear vision breaks us up here. It should have all been dealt with sooner. But the worst part is that this cabinet has one big blind spot, namely for 7 million people aged 50 and over, of whom over 3 million are retired. In the entire coalition agreement, the word "aging" is only mentioned once. When it comes to workers, this cabinet also forgets the elderly. Many older people are no longer able to work because of age discrimination. An ombudsman is being set up for labour market discrimination, but it should not look at age discrimination. Why, I ask the Prime Minister. The cabinet is doing everything it can to give people who work a better income position, and that is fine. But if you stop working and retire, you'll be completely out of the sight of this cabinet. It's called tunnel vision, or maybe stare. It is blind staring at the production factor paid labour instead of on man. Moreover, I believe that I have already said to Mrs Hermans of the VVD today that people who no longer work paid are also of great social value to our society. They are also a factor of production. If that's how you want to talk about people. For example, think of our carers. More than 80% of carers, mainly elderly, are currently taking care on a scaled basis. These people are of great social value, economic but also social. But here too an integral vision is lacking. Will the cabinet be committed to a follow-up to the administrative agreement Together strong for care and, if so, how? Mr. Chairman. The most painful point in this coalition agreement is, in my view, the way in which older people are treated or not treated. The most striking and poignant example is that the government wants to decouple the AOW from the benefits. And even though that is occasional in order not to have to give the minimum wage increase to the AOWs, it is an acidic appeal for opposition parties and even for the senior party sections of the coalition parties a cold cut. Mr. Chairman. In 1947, Minister Drees introduced the Temporary Emergency Law on Old Age Services, followed by the AOW which was introduced ten years later by Minister Suurhoff. From that moment on, there were concerns about the sustainability of the AOW, because it was already clear that society would age. This is why the AOW Savings Fund was set up in 1997. That was a fund to cope with that peak in the ageing population that was already foreseen at that time around 2020. That fund should have been worth 135 billion by now. "Had" I say, because the Savings Fund AOW was dissolved in 2011. And why, the people who look at home will wonder. Because since the creation of the AOW Savings Fund in 1997, no cabinet has deposited money in that fund. And in 2011 it turned out to be an empty fund and it was therefore abolished. And now the cabinet plans to disconnect the AOW from the minimum wage and benefits. That way, a lot of money is taken away from pensioners. And yes, 700 million is coming back in the old-age discount, which does nothing for a large part of the AOW'ers. The people with only AOW or a small supplementary pension do nothing. I wish we had the savings fund by now. Mrs Hermans of the VVD pointed out that the purchasing power of pensioners should be taken into account, because the coalition seeks balanced purchasing power for all. And the group chairmen of D66, CDA and Christian Union also said that today. The decoupling of the AOW is therefore not necessary in my view. There are billions more going to, for example, Defence, Justice and Education, so much so that I read in the documents that some departments are not even getting this money for the coming cabinet period. Why not go to these departments a little less, so we can give our elders the respect they deserve? Anything is possible, but it's a matter of making choices, political choices. We don't want to leave the elders in the fucking corner again, do we? I'd like a reflection from the Prime Minister on this. In 1980, the link between the AOW and the benefits was a question of civilisation. The AOW cannot be decoupled from benefits after four decades and put pensioners back on purchasing power disadvantage. That's not civilized. I wonder why four parties pay so little attention to our elders. D66 is mainly aimed at young people, but it should also be remembered that they also grow old once. The VVD is for the workers, but pensioners have also worked and still make an important contribution to our society. The CDA and the Christian Union, always senior friendly parties, have really missed the right turn in this coalition agreement as far as I am concerned. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what, if the starting point for this coalition agreement has been 'to look at each other', the considerations have been to give so little attention to our older people. Does this cabinet honestly and sincerely believe that you can treat 3.5 million citizens in this way? People with only AOW or a small pension are often already on or below the poverty line. In recent years, it has been found that the most louder person has been the one who gets the most done in this cabinet. But pensioners are often modest and cannot put down paid work to demonstrate. That is why I started a petition last Thursday, which has now been signed by over 50,000 people, and the counter is still running fast. Google "AOW petition" and you can see it for yourself. Pensioners have worked hard for years, and still play an important role in society. But they no longer have the opportunity to increase their income and are therefore defenseless in that sense. They have often also been affected by the "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot" or "knot." Apparently, this cabinet has no idea what pensioners mean to our society. As the dome for pensioners said, all the older people should put down their voluntary service or care duties for a while. I think that's a good idea. We immediately see that without our elders we are nowhere at all. Mr. Chairman. You have heard me say it many times, but I say it again: our older people are the foundation of our society. If they stop their commitment to this society, we have big problems. Sports clubs are falling apart. Hospitals and elderly care organisations, which rely heavily on older volunteers, are no longer able to carry out essential tasks. Day-time spending for elderly people with dementia and hospitality is not getting their schedules around. And what would you think if all those carers gave it to you? The labour market in care is already acute. Then we've got a huge problem. Or older people who are careful so that their children, the production factors of this cabinet, can continue to do their job. If they lay down their duties, whole sectors will go down. Perhaps the cabinet could calculate what all these social tasks of capital represent. Then a substantial increase in income is justified. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement also speaks of a good and decent retirement for everyone. But can the Prime Minister explain to me what that is? Good and decent sounds nice, but talk doesn't fill holes. Let us be honest: every year pensioners are lagging behind financially, especially in comparison to the workers, who have improved about 20% in recent years. Non-working people are again and again in the minus. Retirement's rack's really been out a long time. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I cannot catch the coalition agreement on any generational policy or a multi-annual vision of ageing. That's a really missed opportunity. As the Social Cultural Planning Bureau says in the reflection on the coalition agreement, broad prosperity is about quality, quality for citizens and quality for society, an inclusive society in which everyone matters and has equal opportunities, can and may do personal development and can and may participate fully. As far as I am concerned, an inclusive society includes workers and non-working people, the poor and the rich, sick and healthy, young people and yes, also the elderly. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is right to plan that visit to the ophthalmologist and to ensure that it gets a clear view of all citizens in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u351	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u352	Thank you. First of all, welcome to the executives and congratulations on the new cabinet. Congratulations also to the new Members of Parliament and the new group chairmen. It's one big party in the room today. President and best citizens of the Netherlands. When we talk about climate and sketch doom scenarios here, as if Maastricht will be at the sea if we do nothing, we always say: we have to think about our children; we do it for the future our children. The transfer of the coalition agreement by the Central Planning Bureau shows that we are burdening the next generation with unaffordable debts. Our children, who are so important to the climate parties in this Chamber, suddenly no longer matter. In fact, all the billions that are going to be spent are praised. Today's young people are the first generation after the Second World War who have it economically worse and still get it than their parents. They have more debts, thanks to the loan system, they can't get a house, they're locked in their rooms because of the covid measures and they can't be young and carefree like my generation was. They often have psychological complaints, with an increased percentage of suicides as a sad low. On structural funds for suicide prevention, we are tabling a motion tomorrow. When they grow up, they're gonna get caught again. In 20 to 25 years' time, they will be able to pay the bill for the billions that a number of parties in this Chamber now want to spend, among other things, on climate and nitrogen measures. Measures that we do not yet know at all whether they are having any effect, and why we are taking them exactly. Measures to buy farmers out from nature reserves, for example, when we do not know at all whether the nitrogen they emit is going to drop there, or whether it might be nitrogen from the distribution centre of a supermarket chain in the neighbourhood, for which that supermarket chain does not even need an Nb licence. As a result, that distribution centre does not need to record at all how much nitrogen is emitted. Billions for measures to restore nature, while the PBL has often said that the critical deposition value, i.e. the level of nitrogen precipitation on Natura 2000 sites, will still be too high, even if we remove all livestock, all industry, all people and all shipping from the Netherlands. There is still a risk that the quality of nature will deteriorate. The most shocking thing is that again this afternoon, the cabinet has no knowledge of the exact state of the soil in these natural areas. The cabinet cannot know that either, because there are no measurements, but only calculation models. These are models with a price tag of 25,000 million euros, or 25 billion. I know one effect of climate policy: Maastricht is not going to be at the sea, nor is it going to be at the sea. Maastricht would not be at sea either if we did not spend 60 billion on nitrogen and climate. And no, Amersfoort is not going to be at sea either. Even Zoetermeer won't be lying by the sea. "Maastricht aan Zee" is simply bullshit and scaremongering of mostly our children, to justify our rigorous climate policy. Stop that weird scaremongering like we're all gonna drown tomorrow if we don't do something. I am not saying that we do not have to do anything, but make policies that we know about. Maastricht, Amersfoort and Zoetermeer do not drown. But do you know who's gonna drown now and later? The young generation, the people who have to build our country further, and the elderly, who have built our country in the late 40s, 50s, 60s. The elderly get the middle finger now that the AOW is disconnected from the minimum wage. Those who are already drowning are all citizens who are no longer able to pay all the bills because of the rising rent and the towering energy bill. How do you sell to the citizens that we spend EUR 60 billion on climate, nitrogen and road pricing, among other things? Account driving, another monstrosity, with which we make the hardworking citizen pay extra to go to work. Mr. Chairman. I've already mentioned the elders. People who have often worked for forty, fifty or sixty years to keep the Netherlands running. People who have been workers for the most part. Nowadays they are called pensionados, implying that they are all sipping white wines under the parasol at their second house in the Algarve counting their money, or touring in expensive campers. Many AOW'ers today do not have a motorhome and do not have a second house in the Algarve. It's more likely that they have a mobile home in, let's say, Fledder in Drenthe, spared their hard-earned pennies, if they already have one. Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of AOWs who don't even have their own house. Many AOW'ers, especially in the big cities, live in rental houses for which they have had to pay more and more for. Rent homes that are often also poorly insulated, so their gas bill shoots through the roof like a rocket. Most of today's AOW workers were hardworking workers. Very ordinary people with very ordinary wishes. Bus drivers, factory workers, care workers, construction workers, carpenters, postmen, plumbers, electricians, road workers, damsels, masters, shop staff, waiters, cooks, secretaries, welders, hairdressers, you name it. People who ran our country and our economy. The AOWs of today built our houses, built our railroad tracks, asphalted our roads, built our pipes and electrics and took care of us, our children and our grandmothers and grandmothers in the hospitals. They transported us by bus or train safely to our destination, made our belongings in the factories, brought our stuff to the sidewalk of our homes, taught our children, supplied our stores, brought our mail and fitted them or still fit our children. Mr. Chairman. The AOWs of today are ordinary people with ordinary wishes. They don't ask much. They want to be seen, heard and certainly appreciated. That is why our urgent appeal: please reconnect the AOW to the minimum wage. It's not because it can't. It is a political choice, just as the purchase of De Vaandelbearer from Rembrandt was a political choice. As long as you want it enough. Mr. Chairman. Why are climate and nitrogen considered more important than poverty reduction? Poverty threatens many more people if energy prices remain so high, food prices continue to rise and a tank of petrol is priceless. 28% of Dutch people are already financially vulnerable. We'll talk about over five million people. 500 million is spent per year on labour market reform, reintegration and tackling poverty and debt, and another 300 million in burden relief for SMEs and pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness. In total, you are talking about 0.8 billion, compared to 60 billion for climate, nitrogen and nature. A sacrifice for the people and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, when you see what is being allocated to the nature industry. Mr. Chairman. I urge this cabinet to ensure that, with all the rising prices and the high costs that come towards the citizens, we better distribute the money and put more money into preventing and combating poverty in our country and less into measures that we do not know the impact of, but which will soon leave our young generation with the bill. I would also like to make a comment on the matter of care. One of the biggest challenges in healthcare in the coming decades is finding sufficient care staff. The coalition agreement does not really offer any solutions. Innovations, robotisation, but also the use of foreign personnel seem necessary. The PBL also expressed concerns about the shortage of professionals in the future. We want everything, but do we have the people for it? Apart from a commitment to invest in training, the cabinet does not come up with solutions. So the question is how the cabinet intends to solve this problem. Please, dear people in trade-k, we're not going to allow bizarre plans like in Belgium, where care workers are threatened with dismissal if they don't get vaccinated? Can the Prime Minister at least promise that this will never happen? The regulatory burden in the care sector has been a major problem for many years. The regulatory burden has to be reduced, because that is one of the reasons why care workers have left care and started doing something else. In the context of disordered care many rules have been deleted in the past, but with covid a lot of rules have been added. Can the Minister ensure that unnecessary bureaucratic rules disappear as quickly as possible, so that care workers have time again for the hands on the bed and it becomes attractive again for new people to work in care? This cabinet would pick up disordered care again. Can the Minister tell us what the status of that is now? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the new governance culture, the new momentum. It's going to be hugely difficult. How are we supposed to do that? But it's very simple: just do what you promise, debate with open sight, play on the ball and not on the man, not leak to the press but first inform the Chamber, send the House pieces on time and not throw 800 pages on the fence in the middle of the night for a debate the next day, create policies that map the consequences and effects in advance instead of having to correct them afterwards, often make crossword puzzles that are very important too, and participate in MAX Memory Trainer, because that stimulates the active memories or memory and that may come in handy in this house, do not dare to lie and admit errors. As I always said to my children, the truth is never worse than the lie you tell about the truth. People will perhaps say: as if all this is going to help regain confidence, because it's all a drop on a glowing record. But my starting point is that many drops make the album less glowing. In my opinion, these many drops include not only reliable, serviceable, close and just, so not only what we need to be, but also seen, heard, appreciated and taken seriously with those many drops. Then we don't just look inside, but then we look outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u353	Mrs van der Plas and I both had questions to Mrs Hermans from the VVD about the nitrogen problem. That was a bit strange, because we both asked the same question and then there turned out to be a problem. A hallucinating EUR 25 billion will be released. The reason why there was a problem was one that we could see, namely that no building permits are granted. That is, of course, totally bizarre, because everyone knows that there is actually no nitrogen problem. You've been trying to explain that a little bit. If you want to measure the nitrogen deposition in these Natura 2000 sites, that is a very big problem. You have wet deposition and dry deposition and there are all kinds of RIVM models that don't work. I guess most people in V-K don't know the difference between nitrogen, nitrogen oxide and ammonia. So that's gonna be quite a job. I would like to fight you to fight the root causes of this problem for the cabinet. I would like to ask you to explain once again to the people in box K and to the VVD why there is no nitrogen problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u354	By saying "there's no nitrogen problem," you get the whole business over you. Because you're a nitrogen explorer. That's not us; that's not Mr Van Haga and I'm not. Nitrogen is just there and nitrogen is emitted. But it is a created problem in the Netherlands because of the goals we have imposed on ourselves. We have very high targets for those critical deposition values. That's what the PBL has been saying for a long time. Those critical deposition values are far too high. That's what I just said in my speech. That's what the PBL says. I'm not making it up; it's what the PBL says. If you take away everything in the Netherlands, this critical deposition value is still too high for the people at home, again: that is the degree of nitrogen precipitation on the natural areas. So we can never really meet that. That's one. So what we're doing here is spending billions in that science. We do know that. But what is nature's state and soil analyses? There haven't been any data out of the last 30 years. They're somewhere, but they're not known, they're not there. There are no readings. That's my biggest problem. I often ask: do we know what we're doing? I've asked that in Corona debates. We need to know what we're doing and if it's gonna help before we start spending those billions. That's the point I keep trying to make. And it has nothing to do with me thinking that nothing should happen or that we should eat more meat and more and more cattle. I never said that. I said we need to know exactly what we're talking about. This afternoon, it turns out we don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u355	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u356	Anyone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u357	This was a nice one-two, as we sometimes call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u358	Mrs. Ouwehand is fine too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u359	Thank you very much, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that today's tradition is to share family anecdotes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u361	Could you keep it down in the hall a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u362	... and also boasting about the size, but for me it's so hard to choose with sixteen brothers and sisters that I'm skipping. But I thought I should trump Mr. Azarkan when it comes to the size of the family we come from. Yes, there's always boss over boss, Mr. Azarkan. Get used to that! My contribution is of a slightly more serious nature. Our country is ruled by a incumbent power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u363	May I ask the MPs to be quieter and listen to Mrs Simons?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find that worrying: a sitting power that thinks itself untouchable. I'm not the first to say it today, but it's a fact. Rutte III continues, with a new chord and beautiful words; beautiful on the outside, but I'm worried about what's inside. I'm scared. That doesn't happen often either. But everything indicates that Rutte 3.2 will bring us more of the same. The term has been mentioned here many times and Mr Rutte himself said it during that famous "night of Rutte." The analysis will be a little lean if I say here that he is only the big problem of The Hague, because Mr Rutte has only become the symbol of an unreliable government. Although an important symbol, whose position in Rutte 3.2 is perhaps the most controversial of all rulers, the real problem goes deeper, of course. The Hague is steeped in a problematic political ideology. Here the idea is that the way in which we have set up our society at the moment, at the very core, is in order, that the world works as it works. In short, it is an ideology that wants to maintain the existing order of things. That explains exactly why the Netherlands is hoping to move from housing crisis to supplemental scandal and from climate crisis to further raging of the Groningers. Because if you cannot look at the fundamental mistakes in our society's political, economic and cultural systems, then there will always be more crises. A subsequent supplement scandal is not prevented by financing childcare in a different way. Indeed, institutional racism and the deep-rooted distrust of the public remains. The housing crisis is not solved by "building, building, building" if we still declare the free market sacred and do not dare to intervene on foreign investors who continue to raise homes or if we do not reduce the mortgage interest deduction. The climate crisis is not a nuclear power plant or a low-carbon tax here and there, if we refuse to see that capitalist hunger for profits and growth is inextricably linked to the exploitation of the earth, animals and the environment. It is precisely at this time, which makes it so painfully clear where the system errors are, that we must face the problems at systemic level and have fundamental debates on a future-proof vision for the country. Otherwise, we will only focus on ever new crises and new scandals. Mr. Chairman. Politics is mostly looking for nice headlines, it seems. She's in her bag when she can participate in the cow business of a bunch of money on a budget. Here one celebrates when it has succeeded to change three words into a page-thick bill. Here, far right, a stage is awarded to spit his uncircumcised racism and Islamophobia into the Chamber and so on in society without any opposition. It shows the excessive but effective self-confidence of the far right. We all know that words matter, that they can hurt, that they can cut deep wounds and that they have very concrete consequences, not just here in the Chamber, in this house, but throughout society. The constant anti-Muslim rhetoric and demonisation have been an attack on the freedom and security of Muslims and people of colour for decades. And yet there is no strobe in their way here. In fact, there's been some kind of usance. Devious ways have been found to address the racism of far-right parties in their own positions and language. Whoever says anything about it is suddenly against freedom of speech. But whether it is the Forum for Democracy or the PVV: who gives them a stage for hate and conspiracy is complicit in their racism and fascism. And yet this is the charade of The Hague, where history seems to have found its end. We meet endlessly. Meeting will take place at the meeting. We're fighting for the fight. The real ideological contradictions fade. Finally, the question remains: who has a view on what a radically just and equal Netherlands looks like? That is exactly where the dividing line between the political elite and the rest of the Netherlands is emerging. Unfortunately, we also see this dividing line in the coalition agreement. The victims of injustice and inequality, of the mistakes in our political, economic and cultural system, feel the need for radical change. It is a political choice to only want to score in the margins of politics. It is a political choice to accept the way our society is now putting together. It is a political choice to kitten the cracks in a building that should actually be pulled through the demolition ball. These choices have the effect of maintaining the major problems. Maintaining these major problems has the effect that politics serves only a small group of people in The Hague and loses sight of who change is a matter of life or death. While white-collar criminals get away with tax evasion, it's the black boys and the guys of color who are ethnically profiled by the police every now and then. This is quite apart from the fact that they are subjected to institutional racism on so many more aspects of their daily lives and are many excrements. While rich people are getting richer and multinationals can make deals about tax structures, the rest of society sees that they are being treated with suspicion, that they are being judged under the guise of combating fraud by color and class and are being distrusted by the Tax Administration and by the Implementing Authorities of the Participation Act. When does The Hague choose the interests of the victims of these system errors? When do we choose a society that works for everyone here? Mr. Chairman. All the above is my problem with the administrative culture in The Hague. It is a political unitary sausage of conservatism, which serves only the interests of a few and refuses to tackle the fundamental problems at the root. It is the job of this cabinet, but also of the Chamber, to break that rotten administrative culture. But today we're talking about the cabinet. It has been said a few times, and it also saddens me to have to repeat it, but this agreement shows that this is a cabinet with a short-term vision. This cabinet leaves the serious problems to the delusion of the day, to the opinion polls. Think of leaking the corona measures to give public opinion a bit of warmth before they are ratified at the press conference. In this case, we are not going to debate it until a week later. It believes that the country does not need a short-term vision but a long-term vision. To a cabinet that certainly tackles the major problems of our time: institutional racism, the crisis in youth care, the crisis in education, the crisis in capitalism. If it were up to us, we would tackle the crisis in youth care, not by making additional cuts, but by investing in a radical reform. Then we would tackle long waiting lists in the trans-care sector and ensure that trans-personalities are treated humanly. Then we would guarantee the right to care and not secretly undress the care even more. If it were up to BET1, we would demand a fair contribution to society from multinationals and the most wealthy, and increase the tax on profits and dividends, as well as the tax on wealth and income of the rich. They have not become a little bit richer over the past two years. That is why we propose to start with a one-off corona tax on the incomes of these people. BET1 would opt for fair wages, index pensions and increase the AOW fairly. Contrary to what is happening now, nobody should go backwards because this coalition needs money to solve the crisis that it itself has caused. First of all, of course, the minimum wage. We asked for €14 last year, but that was in 2021. This year we see inflation going through the roof and we would therefore opt for an increase to €15 this year. Not gradual, almost imperceptible, but completely, because it is necessary. If it were up to us, there would be a solid vision for combating institutional racism, starting with the recognition of and excuses for the terror of the Dutch slavery and colonial past. The previous round table made it very clear that this past is the basis for our contemporary society, which lives on in countless ways, even today. A sentence in the agreement such as "ensuring that ethnic profiling is addressed" is not enough. We need to investigate and change where ethnic profiling and racism is recorded in policy or is steeped in culture. We already know so much about that. Policies that result in unequal treatment of citizens on the basis of nationality, ethnicity or origin would be the way forward. The SZW inspection would be given far-reaching powers to intervene in the detection of racism in the workplace, in application procedures and internships. If it were up to us, we would not be talking about a migration crisis based on the racist lie that migrants take jobs and homes. We would talk about a humanitarian crisis caused and maintained by fatal European reception policies and gross human rights violations at European borders. We would immediately achieve humane reception and better access to asylum procedures. Where racism and degradation policies have led to suffering, we would immediately and unconditionally focus on recovery. This means that we cannot send the parents of the children to meet with a new ruler, who happily announces that he will have another conversation with the victims. My heart broke. In the meantime, three generations of those who have fallen apart have been talked out. Everything has already been said and reported by them. The students are also duped. The unlucky generation has had to work deeply in debt for something as crucial as education. At 1 would not ship them off with a little €1,000 but opt for fair compensation. If we were in charge, we would lay the bill of the climate crisis where it belongs: the big polluters, the big polluting companies. Because where these companies are now economically rewarded, BET1 would hold them responsible for the destruction of nature and their share of pollution. This would give even greater priority to tackling the climate crisis, as time is pressing and climate damage is becoming more and more permanent. We also see this with our fellow statesmen on Aruba, Curaçao, St.Maarten, Bonaire, Statia and Saba. We should no longer see them as a footnote, but we should see them as essential partners who should have a genuine and equal voice in decision-making, including on their own environment. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. If the cabinet knows where to find out what Mr Rutte said in his statement this morning, which was endorsed by Mrs Hermans, then he, this cabinet, finds me on many parts on his side. Because they were beautiful words, hopeful words. I would like nothing more than to get terribly wrong in my statement that there is no room for radical changes from The Hague. I hope that Rutte IV will make my presence here completely unnecessary. Mr. Rutte may consider that my assignment to him. I wish the cabinet, all its members, success, especially those who take over a difficult portfolio. And to them I also make a promise that BEL1 will follow every step critically and with scepticism, but more than willing to support and defend constructive plans that serve us all and are dedicated to an equal and just Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. That's the promise I'm making. But let me just say one more thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u365	I thought it was so handsome that you stayed right in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u366	Right in time, huh? I don't want to say that's why I'm known, but I can. I would like to say one more thing. This is about the debate we have had here today. I thought that 75%, three quarters, of the time was a nice debate, constructive, respectful and without unnecessary interruptions and playing on the person. I would like to thank my fellow roommates for the fact that we have shown each other today in solidarity that there are indeed limits to hate-sowinging, inciting and polarising. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u367	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u368	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, the heartfelt congratulations of Belang van Nederland, van BVNL, to this cabinet. We'll try to be constructive. Let's hope the damage doesn't get too big. We will, of course, be very critical of you. Mr. Chairman. We're witnessing a coup new style. New style, because it is carried out by a democratically legitimized government. Yet there is nothing democratic about the plans. Is there a majority in the Netherlands for an EU army? BVNL doesn't think so. Is there a majority for decoupling the AOW from the minimum wage? BVNL doesn't think so. Is there a majority in favour of using crisis legislation for the climate or buying out farmers? Of course not. These are huge decisions that were not included in any election programme. So the Dutch got something completely different from what they voted for. Doesn't the Prime Minister think that a referendum on these matters would be an excellent means of achieving this? Mr. Chairman. If you fail, you stay put. That's exactly what the Cabinet did. The people responsible for the premium affair, in which tens of thousands of families were crushed by the State, are once again in trade union K, without shame. The people who decided to close the gas field in Groningen and ignored the Groningen for years and didn't compensate, continue without remorse. The people who were in charge of the chaotic and amateur flight from Afghanistan pretend that nothing happened, without scruples. And the same people who degenerate a seasonal virus into a disaster for the Netherlands by opting for lockdowns, fear and repression instead of common sense and natural immunity, are just sitting there again, as if they were not guilty of this disaster. On the contrary: just tweeting that you're sitting on the couch with popcorn watching the extension of the lockdown, which means that many catering entrepreneurs are now considering suicide. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, SMEs have always been the engine of the economy, the backbone of society. With the Rutte IV cabinet, that is forever over. This cabinet bets on the State as the waterhead of society. Extra-compatible Giga funds will be used to lend and spend 90 billion extra over five years. That is electoral deception of an unprecedented magnitude, because no coalition party promised the voters this huge mountain of debt, which will have to be repaid by our children. According to the CPB, public debt is going to reach a hallucinatory rate of 90% of GDP in 2060. Can the Prime Minister explain what that means when interest rates rise to 2%, 3% or perhaps even 5%? What is he going to say to our children, who we leave with a bankrupt Netherlands? And who's gonna pay for this pottering? Will the government be the economic engine of the Netherlands? The government is a cost. The money is earned in the real economy, by companies where people work. But this cabinet creates hundreds of thousands of new jobs for civil servants. The CPB calculated that employment in other sectors fell sharply. So for a job, you're gonna have to be with the government from now on. The municipalities are also reduced. The local government must give way to the national government. All these developments point in one direction. The almighty State becomes the waterhead of society. It's a coup new style. The rulers choose their own path, separated from the promises to their voters. BVNL is fundamental against this growing government power, with giga funds and an explosion in the number of officials. Can the Prime Minister explain to each fund how the Chamber can carry out its controlling task? Mr. Chairman. BVNL is for a business office. This cabinet doesn't look like it. But the strange thing is, at least I find it strange that D66 still provides the majority of directors qualified for their new position. Robbert Dijkgraaf on Education, Ernst Kuipers on Health and Gunay Uslu on Culture deserves applause. With Henk Staghouwer, this cabinet counts only one entrepreneur. That's a little skinny. But there have also been incomprehensible changes: the iron-strong Minister for Finance Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, a Secretary of Defense who doesn't know the military isn't unique, but someone who doesn't know the difference between a sergeant and a major is somewhat offensive. Let's hope we don't have a war in the next few years. But fortunately in this cabinet is also the honored Afghanistan veteran Captain Hanke Bruins Slot. That gives the citizens courage again, should Ukraine fail. But the main concern on this file is, of course, the threat of a European army. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that this will not happen and that, if he intends to do so, he will at least have a referendum there? Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few specific points. The corona measures have caused enormous damage and have deeply divided our country. Entrepreneurs are at the edge of the abyss. RIVM models consistently fail. Vaccination does not appear to be the way to the promised country and yet the cabinet wants to introduce 2G and start vaccination of healthy children. Opponents and opponents are opposed to each other. Can the Prime Minister indicate how this cabinet will prevent further polarization? Mr. Chairman. Then there is energy policy. There are no limits to mispolicy in the field of energy transition. We've wasted billions of dollars on useless windmills, solar fields and polluting biomass plants. An ordinary household is now going to pay hundreds of euros a month more for the energy bill. The Groninger gas field closes because we are too bad to maintain the pressure in the field by applying, for example, water injection. The Dutch energy policy knows nothing but losers. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether he is prepared to look at solutions that are technically good for the environment and stop doing things that are demonstrably bad? And talk to an engineer for once. There's one behind you: Mrs. Van Gennip studied physics in Delft. I'm sure she can give you a tutoring lesson. Mr. Chairman. We now have a Minister for Nitrogen. In view of my limited speaking time, I would like to refer this Minister to the columns of Ronald Plasterk and the previous interruption of myself and Mrs Van der Plas. There is no nitrogen crisis, there is just a crisis in governance. Finally, Mr President. There are 2 million entrepreneurs in the Netherlands who suffer from the government, unnecessary rules and improper competition by the government. They suffer from the bureaucracy surrounding labour law and absenteeism. The locational environment is downright poor and the cost of exorbitant expenditure is largely borne by the business community. But the Netherlands cannot be without entrepreneurs, not without people taking risks, hard work, being creative and making things. It would be good if this cabinet, even though it is mainly made up of people who have never been entrepreneurs, would realize that, in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u369	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, we will go to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u370	Madam President. 360 days after the fall of the cabinet, I get 360 seconds to say something about a new cabinet, which is identical in terms of coalition to the old one, which has very little confidence in the citizen, and a coalition agreement that has been broken by the Central Planning Bureau, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the Planning Office for the Environment, the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. Everything is compensated with money to buy off political contradictions and the account is transferred to the future. That account didn't work out today. The agreement states that everyone would improve on this, Mrs Hermans stressed that "but the Nibud knew that inflation was not 2%, but at least 3%. Then everyone goes backwards, all 116 groups. Has the agreement been amended yet? In my brief contribution I would like to say a few things about the corona policy, the financial underpinning of the plans, the major debt problems and the surcharge scandal. The election campaign was tame because of the corona crisis. It's been almost two years. As many as 32,000 Dutch died more than expected. More than 82 billion extra has been spent. Hundreds of thousands of people are waiting for delayed care. There are over 150,000 lung covid patients. There is no economic perspective for the catering industry, the cultural sector andzzp'ers. The Prime Minister rightly spoke in the government statement this morning about the corona crisis and its impact, but there is no chapter on corona in the coalition agreement. There is no medium-term plan, no vision and no direction of thought. Exactly 0.3 billion has been earmarked for ic's and pandemic preparedness. The CPB says it doesn't know how that amount is spent. There's no plan for hundreds of thousands of delayed operations. There is no perspective for the catering industry and forzzp'ers. In a few weeks' time, therefore, will the government produce a plan aimed at prevention, ventilation and a sustainable impact on the economy and public health, rather than the current approach to the exchange of interests and the constant reduction of civil rights? Does she want to take into account the expenditure on corona? In the midst of a crisis, having no plan and no strategy and no reservation of money is irresponsible. This Chamber voted unanimously in favour of my motion for an independent investigation into the excess mortality rate. What did those 30,000 people die of? If we know that, we can make better policies. We got that plan, but the researchers who are in the lead are the same researchers who advise the government. That's unwise. Do you want to ensure that independent researchers are in the lead and that the data are available to everyone, so that all cases can be tested? I was pleased with the Prime Minister's words that we should put science in the lead and make policies based on it. The new cabinet spends an unprecedented amount of money and does so through funds. For each Dutch family, €8,000 is lent in a climate fund and €6,000 in a nitrogen fund. It's huge amounts of money being borrowed. There is, of course, I have already shown this paper to Mrs Hermans, a relationship between what you put into this and what you have with purchasing power. It's very negative for all 116 groups this year. We've never seen that before. So what are we going to do with the funds and inadequate parliamentary control? The last time we started spending without a plan, we were going to grant Tesla riders tens of thousands of euros: no climate gains. Or we spent billions on biomass. That was dumb. Government debt will explode with this kind of policy, while purchasing power will decline. Is the government prepared to write a supplement, a correction, to the government agreement, whereby money is spent wisely and the account is not deposited with future generations? Mr. Chairman. We have a problem in Europe. If we're gonna hit the 3% and make these debts, we're gonna give everybody carte blanche. That's nice for two years. Let's celebrate. But then the debt crisis comes, because the European Central Bank has already bought up €100,000 per family in the euro area. $100,000. Those are all state loans that no one ever wants to take from them again. Is the government prepared to come up with a plan to get the euro area out of this fiscal and monetary swamp before the debt crisis becomes an economic crisis with mass unemployment and further impoverishment of the middle class? That is what needs to be done for the re-negotiation of the SGP. Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. We can tackle tax avoidance together and ensure that foreign investors cannot rent out the former rental homes tax-free. We can make sure that social rentals are accessible. See how they do it in Vienna. With good leadership, you can intervene quickly and achieve low excess mortality at work without 2G or 3G. Look at Denmark. You can implement a long-term climate policy and a much more substantial increase in the social minimum. Look at the United Kingdom. Dutch society has potential, voluntary organisations, new social housing corporations and beautiful, small family businesses. Not Shell and the mailbox companies. Look outside your own bubble, I'll tell the cabinet. We can offer citizens real protection against the almighty state, as in Germany with a constitutional court. When are we going to enter that? We can restore balance with a new social contract. For this I will take concrete initiatives and make proposals together with other parties. The government can take over any plan. In the coalition agreement, she does so a few times, but not enough. Think of the rethinking of the social minimum. How do people make a good living? But when it comes out that they can't make ends meet, for example, people with only AOW or in an institution, is there any extra money? Two small points, Mr. Chairman. Back to the fall of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u371	I'd like you to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u372	I get to interrupt myself four more times. Mr. Chairman. The compensation is a tragedy. 1,115 children have been placed out of the house. The Prime Minister promised to look for the bottom stone in Brussels. We asked Chamberwide to come up with an investigation and help these parents. In the last three months, there has been no independent investigation and no child has been reunited. How does the Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u373	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u374	And finally, Mr President, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u375	No, I really want you to go now... you really need to be shorter. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u376	Mr President, I would like a letter from you once on how you feel I have half a speaking time compared to everyone else, because I would supposedly have been voluntarily separated. I have a serious question for the Prime Minister. He's had all the ministers write a letter saying they shouldn't work elsewhere if they're ministers. Did he sign that letter himself? Isn't there any way he's going to apply for another job? This function is too important for that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u377	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Mr. Van Haga, ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u378	How many interruptions do I have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u379	Let's see. Two more, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u380	That last one didn't count, did it? Then I've got another one. I am very curious to know what Mr Omtzigt would have liked to say. He was in the middle of a sentence. He wanted to ask one more question. I think this was a very important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u381	That was this question. That question is: all those rulers had to sign a letter. It's in the blue book. That letter says that you do not apply for another position during the period that you are a ruler. In the previous cabinet, we had a minister and a secretary of state who left. They've obviously applied. Is there a punishment on that? How are we gonna stick to that now? Because I think it is important that directors do not go to lobby organisations. I just heard the answer. I hope that will be in the Acts. I heard that the Prime Minister himself promised that this is important, because it is an important role as Prime Minister that he does not apply anywhere else during the journey. I would also like to know whether this has been discussed with the coalition parties in the broadest sense. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u382	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. The cabinet's gonna respond tomorrow. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u383	I'm closing this meeting. We are meeting again tomorrow at 10.15 a.m. to follow up this debate.
