ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Members Nijboer, Beckerman and Bromet amending the Housing Act in order to prevent the number of social housing units in municipalities from falling as a result of performance agreements, Section 34974. I would like to welcome Mr Nijboer, Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Bromet to section K. They are supported by Mustapha Eaisaouiyen and Jaap van der Heijden. Mr Nijboer's associate has disappeared in a mysterious way. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. We put him in the corner, but he's fine at home, I think. He will, of course, act as an advisor to the Chamber when dealing with this bill. The first time-limit on the part of the Chamber took place on 8 March. You'll remember all that. Today we are discussing the first-term response, i.e. from the initiators, and the second-term as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u2	I should like to give the floor to the first author, Mr Nijboer, of the Labour Party. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's always nice to be standing here. When we started making this law a few years ago, we saw that the waiting times for a social home were huge. At first it was six or eight years, but that was ten, twelve or fifteen years. At the same time, we saw that more and more social housing was being sold, liberalised and sometimes demolished, and that there were no social housing returns. In fact, the number of social housing units has decreased for a number of years. Then we thought from the opposition: we are creating a law that will at least ensure that if a social housing unit disappears from the social housing stock, at least one new one will come back for it. That's this law. Your Chamber held its first meeting on this subject in March. We really believe that this law can help to ensure that the number of social housing does not decrease in some areas, as is still at risk. That is our belief. In this law, we're trying to guarantee some sort of stop, some sort of minimum. Mr. Chairman. We have divided the answer as follows. There are a few clear issues and themes in relation to the questions, so they were not so difficult to divide. I would like to keep the introduction, which I have already done, and I would like to respond to the criticism of the Council of State, the Minister's current plans and the relationship with them. Mrs Bromet will then address the question of why you regulate it nationally and not just leave it to the municipalities and the role of housing corporations. Mrs Beckerman will address the numbers, the arguments for this law and a number of other questions. Mr. Chairman. The world is different now than it was a few years ago. It is expected that the number of affordable social housing to be built will increase, that this reversal has already been achieved. Several members, mainly from D66, but also from the VVD and the CDA, have asked: is that law still needed? He comes from a time when the number of social housing units threatened to take off or take off and now he's filing that law? I will argue, on behalf of the three of us, that it is necessary now. First of all, because there may also be municipalities and areas, Mr Van Baarle also indicated this in the debate, where there is nevertheless a choice to sell, liberalise or break down social housing, which means that there are not enough affordable housing in those areas. They are now too short everywhere in the Netherlands. Secondly, we consider this law to be in line with government policy. The Minister sent a letter saying 'well, it doesn't really relate to my view of spatial planning', but we didn't find that letter convincing. The coalition agreement is full of "we take control." It is a national problem and we want the agreements that municipalities make with corporations, the so-called 'performance agreements', to agree that you should not break down houses unless you really have a very good reason. So you can also deviate. In our view, this fits perfectly into taking control of people's housing again, which the cabinet intends to do. It also fits with more affordable housing realization. The Minister sent a global letter saying that out of the 900,000 homes that need to be built, 300,000 must be really affordable, including those built by housing corporations. That fits perfectly with this, I'd say. Then you also have a law that guarantees it. It is also in line with the ruling made by the Chamber in the Marijnissen motion: the number of social housing units should not be reduced. That was adopted by motion, but a motion that Mrs Leijten rightly indicated in the debate is a ruling in the event of interruption, but does not yet settle anything. And this law governs exactly that wish of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then why is that law necessary? For example, because the WPA value is increasing ever more. It is a bit technical, but the value of the houses is increasing and that means that they can get across the liberalisation limit faster, so they can get onto the free market sooner, so they are no longer affordable rental houses. That World War II value's gonna be ticking for a few more years. We know that the price of houses has increased in recent years, so that more and more social housing units, which are now social housing units, could be sold if corporations wanted to. And we really want to prevent the shortage of social housing from increasing even further than is already the case. Secondly, it was agreed in the coalition agreement that tenants may buy their land-based property. In itself, a commendable aim is to give tenants the opportunity to buy a house, but we really do not want the consequence to be that there will be even fewer social rentals. Here too, this law is a stick behind the door. Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, just an overall shortage of homes, by the way, across the board. Whether they're residential properties, middle-class, apartments, corner houses, it doesn't really matter. There's just a huge shortage. So it does not really matter to allow the share and number of social housing to decrease. Mr Grinwis, who is also in another debate, has let me know; I think about water; I am looking at my colleague on the right, who has also walked out of it, said: is that not the new standard? That's not what the law's for at all. That is not the case either, and I would not know how someone could take it that way. We want to take that fear of Mr Grinwis with us, because then it is also in the history of law. In short, we see this as supporting government policy. Then my final part, the advice of the Council of State. The Council of State is actually asking: what problem is this a solution? I just said something about that. He also says: "What is actually a problem is not a shortage of social housing. No, that's the flow." That really is an ideological debate. You can find that people with a middle income, some would like to call it a relatively high middle income; those are people who earn €40,000, €50,000 with the two of them don't belong in the social rent, that they actually have to get out of there. Where they're supposed to go is a mystery to me, but if you chase them all out, you'll have social rentals available again. That is an ideological view. You can also have the view, as the proposers who have, that social housing for broad groups in society should be available, that it also has a value if people who start in a somewhat cheaper or social housing in life want to stay in that neighborhood, that it is also important and that the term "chartering" may not be so appropriate. I've never heard the term "shop shopping" for a man who has relieved his house; he must leave, because he lives too cheaply. That is what the Council of State is really about. He's gonna take a position there. Whatever position you choose, we do not agree with those who say: chase them all away; it must be priced higher. Regardless of whether you think that or not, that doesn't have so much to do with this law. This law lays a foundation, as Mrs Leijten says, under the sale of social housing. Of course that's not the answer. A soil is never the solution to the housing crisis. None of us have claimed that either, but it does ensure that social housing is not lightly liberalised, sold or demolished. That is the purpose of this law. That is urgently needed in this time of housing shortage. The House Union has therefore expressed itself in favour of this. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u4	No, that's what the chairman does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u5	Oh, that's what the chairman does. I would ask the President to give the floor to Mr Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u6	You mustn't knock the bread out of my mouth. But before I give the floor to Mrs Bromet, Mrs Leijten will first have the floor, so you will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u7	I have written along with the cubes, but I may have to ask this question to someone other than the first author, Mr Nijboer. In preparing for this debate, I have read a number of things about how social rent is being looked at, and then I was shocked by a few things. If you look at where that 30% percentage is achieved, you can see that it is in the big cities, with a larger population and often also a greater desire for social housing. But then you sometimes have a discussion about that in the sense of: we do not want social rent at all, because then we get "those people" who live there. Isn't the problem in this debate that the picture in the administrative Netherlands is that you shouldn't have residents of social rent in your municipality? Does Mr Nijboer recognize that or did I see that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u8	Oh, yeah. It is also serious when you say as a municipality: we do not really want too many social tenants, because that only affects us. That is really a problem in some municipalities. If you have a bad-willed municipal government that wants to get rid of social housing, which does not want to be affected by it, because its residents also have a greater claim to social security, which is also the case, then this law helps against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u9	That is an additional argument for national direction, isn't it? In the municipalities around these big cities you can see that there are sometimes only 20% social housing, so you can't spread and solve problems either. Then you get neighborhoods where those problems concentrate. Some cities choose to break down and rebuild these areas. That's what we talked about last time. If you have nowhere else to go, then that is precisely an argument for directing the Minister's plan. We are also talking about performance agreements in the region and directing the region, and to say that we have reached this soil; we are not going through it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u10	That's right. This would also help to achieve the 30% ambition expressed by the Minister, because quite a lot of municipalities are far from getting there. Sometimes that's unwanted, but sometimes it's wanted. This actually counteracts mixed neighbourhoods, mixed cities and a mixed society. That's what this law helps with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u11	I've been watching this law a million times. First we had the written round, last time the first term Chamber and now we listen to the initiators. Mr Nijboer and his associates aim to ensure that the social housing stock does not decrease. A situation may arise in a municipality around a project involving social housing. What if they're being demolished? Then there are a few less homes than before. The corporation may apply to the Minister, who issues a decision. But that is another possibility of appeal and objection. Has Mr Nijboer realised that this could hinder housing in the future? Let's say there's a little less social housing going on in that particular project, but the rest of the municipality can be added. There will be other properties, expensive and expensive rent. But for this project there will be an additional opportunity to appeal and object. Is that what the initiators had in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u12	No. I think that is a bit of a caricature of the law, because it regulates it by municipality, where performance agreements are made with the corporations. If you add a lot more in a municipality somewhere else, according to the performance agreements..................................................................................................................... But it is our intention, of course, that there should be no misunderstanding about this, that it should be discouraged from pulling homes out of the social housing stock, to liberalise, sell or demolish them. Of course, it may sometimes be necessary to demolish a house, for example if a house is very drafty, the rent is no longer payable and the house can no longer be renovated. But it is our intention that at least the same amount, and preferably more, of housing should be returned to it. If that's not done, then you have work to do to defend it. I think that is quite right in times of housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u13	It is good for the legal history that this is recorded. It therefore applies to several municipalities and can cover a very large area. It can happen that in one municipality a little less social housing and in the other municipality a little more, as long as it is for the larger area... That is what I hear in the reply and that is what I read in the explanatory statement. So that would be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u14	This is reflected in the performance agreements between the municipalities and the housing corporations. There are sometimes multiple housing corporations in one municipality. I also see an old alderman sitting here. That's what these appointments are for. That's the level you need to see it at. I find it rather insufferable... I'm from Groningen myself, as you know. There too, there is a real housing shortage at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u15	Fine. Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u16	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the directional function. That's what I was talking about in the interrupting debate, but I have it on my note and there's a little more to be said about it. Mr Van Baarle of DENK asked both the Minister and us how we look at it when the government takes control. He asked if this bill is not exactly the model of the direction we would like to have. That's right. I believe that Mr Van Baarle has made it clear that as a government we want more direction to ensure that we achieve and maintain more affordable homes. This bill sets a minimum standard for the number of social housing. It should not be reduced in a municipality unless there are special circumstances. With this bill, the government takes the direction that is urgently needed as far as we are concerned. Then the region. Various groups, including the CDA, D66 and the VVD, have asked about the relationship between the regions and the municipalities, and about the standard we are aiming for with this proposal. Mr Geurts of the CDA asked if we agree with him that the stakeholders in the region know best what the desired housing composition is for their specific region. What reason do we have to doubt the local performance agreements? Let me say first of all that we have no reason to doubt in general the performance agreements made at local level. There are the municipalities, the corporations and the organisations of tenants at the table to do the best for the local situation. You should actually see this bill as a support in the back of the municipalities, because those performance agreements are also negotiations. I was an alderman and I also spoke in the college about the agreements we made with the corporations about what happened and what did not happen in the municipality. This bill actually makes part of those agreements unnegotiable. There will be no less rentals than there are. So we want to ensure that a minimum of social housing is achieved. D66 also asked us a similar question. D66 asked whether we are not making local customization more difficult and why policy is not entirely left to local democracy. The answer is that we do not want to restrict all local policy areas. We don't want that at all. We too, as initiators, see that local customization is important. But on the other hand, we just want to set a standard. I have just said this in my answer to Mr Van Baarle's question. You don't have to talk about that standard; it's only easy for those municipalities. For the record, this bill regulates that the number of social housing should not decrease. It's not like there's a lot of rentals out there. On the contrary, there is a huge deficit in most regions. If there were a completely different situation in a particular municipality, with an empty position, there would always be the possibility to make an exception. I do not know of any municipality where that is the case, but a corporation can then submit a reasoned request. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to talk about the role of housing corporations. Mr Geurts also asked us to respond to some of the suggestions he made to extend the role of corporations. He suggested that the corporations should also be built in the middle rental homes by abolishing the market test. He proposed that a new definition of social rental be introduced and that social housing be maintained for so long and for the social segment. He also proposed that performance agreements be made with corporations in exchange for abolishing the landlord's tax. These are all proposals that, as far as we are concerned as initiators, could be steps to resolve the housing crisis. They are also often proposals that the groups from which we come have put forward in the past. Today we stand here as co-legislator to defend this proposal, but as MPs we have regularly presented these proposals in the Chamber. However, we do not agree with Mr Geurts' conclusion that this bill brings back the reins for the corporations. All we do is say: there is a minimum of social housing, and that cannot be reduced. But we think that the plea to give more scope to corporations also for the free sector is a good proposal. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u17	Thank you. Finally, on the part of the initiators, Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u18	Mr. Chairman. I was born in a social housing unit. I've also lived in a social housing unit for a long time. I am proud of the long tradition of proud housing that we had in the Netherlands. It's a disgrace how that tradition was squandered. The social rental sector has been squandered and housing has been turned into a market. A huge housing crisis is the result. Fortunately, many of them are coming back from that now. They want to rebuild the housing of the people. It takes a lot of different things. This law contributes to this, as far as the initiators are concerned. We must stop demolishing, selling and liberalising now, and ensure that there is a legal basis for not reducing the number of social housing units in a municipality. Mr. Chairman. I will go into the number of social housing, exceptions, how it should work in practice and some other questions. The CDA actually said: "Don't the initiators recognize that the decline in the number of social housing units has stopped? Then what does this add? Isn't there also a Marijnis motion?" And the Christian Union actually said: "The share is still steadily decreasing. Can the proposers explain why they are satisfied with an equal number?" There is a remarkable difference between those two questions. As far as the initiators are concerned, the Christian Union is right. The share of social rent is still falling steadily. It is no longer possible to explain at this time that there are municipalities which, as a result of performance agreements, reduce their social stock. The share of social housing needs to rise considerably. That is where we agree with the questioners. This law provides for the legal guarantee that the share may not decrease. That is actually the legal basis for the Marijnis motion. Indeed, we still see municipalities that are reducing the share of social rent in the midst of this huge housing crisis. The most painful example, it has already been mentioned in the debate, is perhaps Rotterdam. In the municipality's view, the social stock has to be reduced by 15,000 until 2030, not because these homes are all bad, but because the municipality feels that they have too many social rental homes. The United Nations has put heavy pressure on the Dutch Government for this. The four largest tenant organisations say: we do not sign the performance agreements. With this bill we show that we hear that sound from society. Of course, the initiators welcome Hugo de Jonge's plans to increase the number of social housing units in municipalities that have few of these homes. Mr Nijboer has just said something about this. The minister's also coming up with an investigation into fake social rent. That's good, too. But it keeps mopping with the crane open if we build more social rent in some municipalities and at the same time do not allow the total number not to decrease. That is why we believe that these two things should be done at the same time: by means of this law, lower the number of social housing units and, at the same time, increase the share of social housing in many municipalities. The groups of DENK, SGP, PVV and CDA also asked about those exceptions that we make in the law. The question was when such an exception could be made and whether the number of exceptions would not be higher. The purpose of the exemption provided for in the legislative proposal is to allow exceptions where, in the extreme, the requirement for the maintenance of the social housing stock cannot be met. We have included acute demolition, for example, because of fire or fretting or population shrinkage. But of course we also see that for homes in poor condition, the first thing to think about is renovation. After all, in addition to the housing crisis, we are also facing a climate crisis. We would like to repeat the words of the Minister, who said: "New construction is a CO bomb." So when demolition is insurmountable, the bill offers the opportunity to ask for that exception. The PVV also asked how this should work out in practice and how to prevent relatively spacious houses from disappearing and smaller ones coming back. We actually thought that was a very fair and very good question. Because, of course, it cannot be the intention that large social housing should disappear on a large scale and that small housing should return to it. Part of that will have to be reflected in that definition of what real social rent is. There was already discussion about "fake social rent." That is why we welcome this research. I think we agree with the PVV that that is not enough. That too will have to be part of the performance agreements, but in my opinion is certainly a focus for the House of Representatives. Finally, there are a number of questions about what other solutions are instead of this bill. Mr Nijboer also referred to what the Council of State said about this. Build and flow, called the VVD. The SGP actually said: why focus on social rent and why not on all affordable homes? The initiators are strongly in favour of increasing the affordable sector, but the affordable sector is also defined by the Minister as "buy homes up to €335,000 and rental homes up to €1,000 per month." The initiators want to point out that this is still not affordable for many people. That is why we think it is so important that we do not simply say that all these homes are affordable, but that we really say that we should lay a legal basis for the number and share of social rentals and that we should increase that share. We also see that older people, for example, who are in a somewhat larger social housing unit, are really not able to flow to smaller homes because it stagnates, also because of the lack of good, affordable alternatives in their own neighborhood. In addition, we would like to point out that many people are simply dealing with a variable income. For these people it is very important that they have security, affordability. Too high rent, possibly in combination with a high energy bill, can simply bring incredibly much stress. That is why we do not focus on a kind of broad definition, but also consider it important to really take care of that basis with this law. The target group for social housing is growing and with this law we ensure that the share should not decrease in municipalities. Mr. Chairman. I think that was our answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u19	Very well, thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister, who is here today as an advisor to the initiators. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u20	Mr President, thank you. Indeed, only as an advisor; perhaps I should start with that, because it is customary for the cabinet to give an opinion to the Chamber on a proposal before us. You have seen in the letter that we have a number of reservations, but also that we have a neutral position as a cabinet. You will notice, if it is right, that we, as a cabinet, have said that it is important to have this openness to new proposals from the Chamber in order to demonstrate and underline the importance of the co-legislative role of the Chamber and, unless the financial implications are inconceivable and unless disaster comes to us, to always involve that neutral position as much as possible. So that's what we're doing now. This is without prejudice to the fact that we have made a number of comments, including in the letter. A first remark is that this law is a law of several years ago. That's what you notice in the tone. By the way, I certainly understand the concerns when you look at a few years ago. But the road up has been said a number of times this evening, and the first-term treatment of the number of social housing has already started. Not enough, but it's already been deployed. So the bend has been taken. That's one. Two, and that is perhaps even more important: precisely on all possible fronts, the mandate I received from this coalition agreement is really a different one from that given to my predecessors in the coalition agreements at the time. This is because on all possible fronts we are working on more affordable housing and it is also really seen that we need to restore the people's housing tradition. How do we do that? By making performance agreements with provinces and with municipalities, for example. The 900,000 homes that need to be added.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And indeed: affordable housing has a somewhat broader definition. It concerns both the social housing and the middle sector housing. But if you split it up, we'll get 250 000 social homes and 350 000 middle homes, of which another 50 000 will have to be built by the corporation sector. So about half of the affordable homes we see as the task of corporations. This is what I am supposed to make performance agreements with the corporation sector. This is precisely how we want to strengthen the social stock on all possible fronts. It should not decrease, it should increase over the coming period. It also needs to be divided much better. That is a second element, which we are trying to ensure that those homes are placed especially where there is a great distance from what one can expect from social housing from a municipality. Then, of course, we try to send through money. The abolition of the landlord's tax is an element. The brake on social housing, even more so, the decline in social housing is actually seen as a result of the establishment of the landlord's tax. It is precisely from its abolition that you can also expect production to increase again. The WBI, the Housing Impulse, the infra-investments we're doing this coalition period: they're all stimuli for good, you might say, if you find............................................................................................................................................... I'm very motivated to live up to that ambition. Then there are the questions that were asked in the first term of office. In addition, DENK, CU and D66 ask how I see this bill and place it within the framework of direction. DENK asks this in the sense of: doesn't the Minister think this is a model of directing? Mrs Bromet actually said that a moment ago. CU asks more: how did you actually plan the direction? D66 asks: is the development of middle rental homes included in the performance agreements? The answer to the latter is: yes, I am indeed trying to do that. I'm in the process of making those performance agreements right now. Indeed, as part of those performance agreements, I try to make agreements on middle-rent. Then how do I see that direction? I have just explained this: with performance agreements with provinces and municipalities, with performance agreements with corporations, with money, because there is a lot of money for the restoration of the people's housing tradition in this coalition agreement, with the acceleration of fast housing, with the designation of large-scale housing locations. On all these fronts at the same time, we are working on adequate housing and we are also trying to ensure that there is sufficient social construction. Isn't this a good example of where you could take the lead? I honestly don't think I need this. That's one element. The second is: I don't know if it's actually gonna help. 'Cause it shouldn't be any less. That barely helps you get any more homes, or just doesn't, actually. But it can make it complicated at a number of times, for example, to be able to shape a district in a good way. So no, I honestly don't think it's helping us move in the right direction. I do think it could help us get into a lot of trouble in a situation where you would like to restructure a neighborhood. For that reason, I do not think that this is the best way to achieve what we really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u21	There is a question from Mrs Mutluer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u22	Actually, this attitude of the Minister surprises me. I think he's a minister who's very result-oriented. I call him the Speedy Gonzales of the rulers, who really want to achieve something. You would think that the Minister, at the moment he indicates that he is going to impose "30% social" on the municipality to create a change, so that social housing is also looked at in the new building, would embrace this proposal. Now we have a huge bathtub, because before those social rentals are there, we're five, six, seven or eight years away. That's the lead time for normal housing. So I would say: why does the Minister not embrace this proposal? In fact, he should have thought of it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u23	You had already submitted the proposal before I even took up this wonderful dossier, so that would have been very much Speedy Gonzales. I think there's gonna be a lot more housing needed anyway. Of these many more houses we have to build more than half affordable, two thirds. Why do we say two-thirds? Because two thirds are in line with the wishes of the people who are looking for a place to live. We just know that. Do we need to build a lot more socially? Yes, there is also a lot more social building to be done. That's exactly what I want. That's actually about adding new social housing. I think that's the main motivation this cabinet is going to work with. We will have to add more homes, including affordable and social. A second important motivation is the fair sharing of social housing. I think every municipality should be involved in this. What I see too much now is, of course, that I myself have been alderman for a while; you have been, and I am sure that in your situation it was no different that surrounding municipalities think of a larger municipality: we actually like that larger municipality taking such a large share of social housing, because then we have to do less. That is a bit of the point Mrs Leijten made. That's true; that's exactly how it's done. I don't like that. I think you should hang out together, like regions. So I would like to agree with the regions on how to achieve a better distribution. In this context, I have indeed mentioned the 30% target. Does this proposal then help to achieve more and better distribution? Actually, no. No less; rather weedy. But it doesn't necessarily have to be per project; it doesn't even have to be at the level of an individual municipality. If there are municipalities that are over 40% of the population, I think Zaanstad is also quite high, then I honestly do not mind that they have a number of social housing less in one year, if they make sure that the share increases and that the share is distributed better. In short, I do not know what this proposal adds to that form of direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u24	I know the regions. I also know that sometimes there is a lot of resistance to building social housing. Does the Minister agree with me... Because I don't agree with him that this bill wouldn't help him. If the Minister embraced this, he could achieve his goal of adding more social housing more quickly. Does he agree with me? Is he willing to answer that? Is it true that at the moment there are a lot of municipalities, a lot of regions, in which the number of social housing has really reached a low point? There really is a bathtub. At present waiting lists of eleven or twelve years are rule rather than exception. For them it is necessary that the number of social housing units remains stable, because the lead time of normal housing production is six, seven or eight years. Homes are coming back, but they'll always be smaller than what we have now. So I think the Minister should go and embrace this proposal. I'm sure that's gonna help him. But perhaps he should first answer the question if he sees that at the moment the number of social housing has just fallen, and that we now have a deep bathtub. Before there are new homes, we are really too far puffed with this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u25	I think I can follow an important part of the concerns. First of all, I would like to mention very precisely that the number of social housing units decreased between 2015 and 2018. There's a drop. From 2019 onwards, you will see that the number of social housing units is increasing again, but not enough. It's not close to good enough. At the same time, we see that a lot of attention groups are looking for a home. They have to wait far too long. We see that the waiting list in almost every municipality is far too long. So we have to build a lot more. The bill has no effect on that. In fact, this bill says that you shouldn't demolish it. So you can't have any less social housing. I think it's very illogical to assume that we're going to have less social housing. The point is only: do you want to reach every year for each individual municipality in the performance agreements or do you find that part of the local agreements between corporations and municipalities? We want to agree that 250,000 new social housing units need to be built. We want to build two thirds, 600,000 out of 900,000 homes, affordable until 2030. Above all, we want to speed up fast housing, so flex houses and real estate transformation, so that the groups that really need it are helped the hardest in the shortest possible time. Above all, we want to achieve a better distribution of the social stock. I'd especially like to work on those things. Honestly, I don't know if the bill's gonna help me do that. To be honest, I do not think that is necessarily the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u26	I would like to point out that I think it is and-and. On the one hand, you have to add extra social rentals or affordable properties. On the other hand, you have to look at the existing housing stock. If it drops, then you won't live up to the ambitions to add homes and get rid of waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u27	Again, is the assumption that the number of social housing is going to fall in the near future real? The decrease was mainly due to the introduction of the landlord levy. We're about to abolish it. The bend has already been taken. The decrease has been converted into an increase. In addition, we add the WBI and the 7.5 billion infra funds. So there's a lot of money going towards the residential estate. Everyone thinks more needs to be built. Is the assumption real that it could be expected to fall? I don't think so. I don't think that assumption is real. This law would then help us get more social housing, but I honestly just don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u28	For a neutral position on the part of the government, I find the position of the Minister very special. If this is a neutral attitude, I would like to see a negative attitude from the Minister. Because he's really sneaking out of here with a bill. He has a biased attitude, like it's about banning demolition. This bill states that you must not reduce the number of homes. The Minister says, "I want to increase." Well, at least this is a backrest. If all the Minister's plans come true, then this law is never necessary. I have to laugh at the Minister's "neutral" attitude. I saw the proposers laugh, too. I would simply ask the Minister not only to talk about his own parade horses, but also to respond to the concerns that there may indeed be a situation in which social rent will decrease in the coming years. I think "social" homes are crazy, but well, a home is a home. It can't be social or antisocial, but it can be affordable or not affordable. Mrs Beckerman just said the following in her answer. Last time, when discussing the bill, it was also said that there are just plans in Rotterdam to reduce the number of social rental homes by 15,000 in the coming period. Is that a back-up for this minister? No. This bill is. Can he see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u29	I really do want to say that I am trying to do no more than make a number of comments. Something goes wrong when this law is passed? No, of course not. Nothing's going wrong, I guess. But the question is whether it helps. When I hear the claims made in the speeches on the legislative proposal, I think there are a number of comments to be made. I have just made those comments. I do wonder whether this law helps us when it comes to what you really want, namely adding much more social housing and distributing social housing much better. Then there may also be a number of situations where you would actually complicate what is really needed for a neighbourhood. One example is restructuring. Restructuring sometimes you really want for a neighborhood to achieve a better distribution. In a city, apart from the individual example of Rotterdam, where there is over 40% social housing and municipalities around it do a lot less, you might also want to redistribute a bit. Preferably in the right order, namely that they are first built and then demolished. Of course, that's what you make agreements about in the context of regional housing deals. This is without prejudice to the fact that there could be a situation.... through restructuring, through sustainability.......................................................................................................................................................... Isn't that okay? I really think that is part of the regional agreements we have to deal with each other. Then I say: does this bill really help us achieve the goal of more social housing? No, I don't think so. Could the bill interfere with local situations? Yeah, I think so. That is the point I make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u30	I really think it's an inexplicable explanation. Especially in the case of restructuring, if it is necessary... Often it comes from the vision, which the minister himself actually mentioned, of people who cannot do something on their own. I know a lot of people who live in rental homes and social housing that have a lot of strength. They just often don't have enough income. This is due, among other things, to other ministers in the Cabinet and to other policy of the Cabinets for this purpose. But saying that it's people who can't do it on their own is feeding on the idea that you need to start restructuring because you can jack up a neighborhood with that. I never see restructuring in expensive shopping areas. We won't even get there, because that's private property. I advise the Minister to let go of all that reasoning. Don't look down on people living in a rental house. Apart from that, let's say we need a restructuring. I can imagine you saying: here it is really better that the houses get bigger, for example, because they are too small. I do know of those flats where whole families live, which I think we wouldn't be building anymore. If they're also poorly maintained, they need to be demolished. Then there will be restructuring. In that case, this bill is an aid to say: 'Dear housing corporation, make good agreements that it will not be any less'. That's what you always see when you're restructuring. There's never gonna be anymore, there's always gonna be less. I'd say this is a back-up. Yeah, it's not gonna help for "more," but at least it's the bottom you can't sink through. Then the minister is stronger with his performance agreements and the deals he's going to make. If there's a region that says, "we don't need those poor people and those tenants," the minister can say, "whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u31	First of all, about Mrs Leijten's introduction. I think that is a reproach that cannot be made in the direction of this minister and this cabinet. There is no question at all of looking down on it, no question of putting people down as people you should have in your congregation in your words but as little as possible. I don't think so. It is precisely my commitment and that of this cabinet to restore the people's house tradition. In fact, I believe that we need to take much better care of the housing situation, housing, of people who cannot take care of it themselves, and cannot do so on their own. I'm not saying these people have no power of their own. In this way, I say that people often cannot go to the market because of their income, for example. At all events, people with a normal income are very difficult to find on the market at the moment. That's a big concern we have. That is why we have to add a great deal to it, precisely because I believe that we should take seriously our constitutional task with regard to people's housing. That's my bet. That's how I started this job and I feel very responsible to make it happen. Two. Don't you want to get to some more mixed neighborhoods in big cities, for example? I think it's very healthy to do that. I think it is very important to arrive at more mixed neighbourhoods. Restructuring, where you also come to a different relationship between social rent and middle-priced rent, can be a very healthy development. For this reason, too, restructuring may be necessary. There are neighborhoods where you have really bad homes. Passing homes, you could call them. It may also be the case that the investment needed to make these homes more sustainable does not really outweigh the value that the homes still have. That means that you will also have to restructure. I don't want a brake on restructuring. On the contrary, I want us to encourage housing corporations to restructure neighbourhoods if necessary. Moreover, I would very much like more social housing. This law doesn't really help us with more social housing and restructuring doesn't make this law any easier. Let's at least put it that way. That does indeed mean that I have reservations about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u32	The Minister really does it himself. He really says himself: 'people who can't go to the market on their own'. It has to do with describing them as "the other group," "the weaker group," "the profiteers." I really recommend the Minister to just consider tenants as ordinary people who can have wishes, just like buyers. Add to that: you shouldn't go to the market; you can also rent. I think that's good. But restructuring always takes place in neighbourhoods where there are many social housing. It never takes place in neighborhoods where you actually say: they could be more mixed the other way. So, if you don't lay ground, then social housing always disappears when it comes to restructuring. That is the origin of this bill. This minister says: I have the will to build a lot. He can't build them himself, but he's going to stimulate it; he's going to make arrangements. At best, too, if he succeeds, this law is never a stand-in-the-way. But what if it doesn't work, because we're facing a crisis, because there's going to be a lot of raw materials shortages, because there are speculators on the market who want a high return, then this minister has this law in hand. Then he can say, "Dear region, you cannot sink through the bottom. I have a bill here, and that is my soil, that is the bottom of this country; you cannot go under it."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u33	I'm going back to the beginning of your interruption. I really think that my words there are simply not being done justice, that the intentions are not being done justice. I really think it is wise to do so, because we need to talk with great care about social housing. But I also think that you should simply do justice to the intentions of the cabinet and to the will of the cabinet to build more social housing and build more affordable than we have done in recent times. That's a trend break compared to the three cabinets before that. The only point I'm making is I'm keeping that standing up is that it's very good that we're working on mixed neighbourhoods. I really think that's very wise. Now we see neighbourhoods in large cities with 80% to 90% of social housing, but I think that in a new project we would not be so quick to choose. At least I wouldn't want that. I don't think it's a wise bet. Mixed neighborhoods seem like a sensible effort. Again, but then I'm gonna repeat myself a little bit, we're gonna have to work on a lot more building. That's what we're gonna do. Where we might be making restructuring difficult by adopting this law, I would not be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u34	Yeah, I'm fine. I have already heard Mrs Mutluer in this interrupting round, so I am going to serve Mr Van Baarle. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u35	The Minister, as he himself calls it, has a number of reservations about this bill. I would like to comment on a number of points. First of all, the trend. We've taken the bend, state the minister. It is true that, for the first time in a very long time, I think we have had two years in which the number of social housing has increased by a very small amount. Could the Minister at least acknowledge that it is very bad for the music to say now that we have taken that turn together and we have broken a trend? It is a very small, early indication that we might take a turn with each other, but not yet conclusive proof that that trend is really broken. I'd like a reaction to that. Let's peel it off. Then there's the landlord's tax. It's true that the money goes back. Only, of course, the Minister is going to ask corporations to use that landlord's tax for a whole range of other purposes. That is also right: isolation, sustainability. So the landlord's tax money doesn't go one-on-one to higher production. I also think that this is a comment that should be made in the light of his comments. I have some more, but could the Minister at least respond to these two?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u36	Sure. First of all, this trend: I am the first to say that I think that the number of social housing should increase further. We need to build more new ones. I am also the first to say that it needs to be divided much better between large cities and the municipalities around them. I am an advocate of social housing. That is also the task I have been given from the coalition agreement. I'd love to carry out that assignment. Although you might say that the trend has turned, I wholeheartedly agree with you that it is not near good enough. Look how long the waiting lists are. Look how big the "competition" of all the attention groups waiting for a social rental house, but also of the people who are still on the waiting list, often for years. In short, we have a huge task to do. I'm not saying, well, it's going the right way. No, I'm not saying that. I am just saying that it has to go in the right direction and we have to build a lot of things for that. This bill does not necessarily lead to that. We have a lot of building to do. Two. When the landlord tax was introduced, it was an important brake on the new building. The new building has fallen down to some years but 10,000 to 16,000 social homes, I believe. I think we're gonna have to go to gross modo double, so around 30,000 a year, to get close to "good enough." 27,000 or 28,000, it's gonna have to be. We're not there yet. It is the commitment to make these agreements with the corporations, who will say in particular: can we please have enough locations to set up these social housing? Because, of course, it's still quite an art to do that with municipalities. Although there are other tasks to be done, including in the abolition of the landlord's levy, I do believe that this has at least increased the volume of investment in such a way that it is no longer a brake on the new construction of social housing. Locations will be much more and possibly also labour, as it will be quite complicated to find labour in the coming years for all the jobs we had in mind. But investment volume should not be the brake on corporations in the coming years. My impression is that it will not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u37	What is also happening, of course, is this cabinet's own policy. That's the first thing. There is a great uncertainty about how in the future the intention that social housing should be sold to residents, as the cabinet itself says. That is an objective. The Minister also just stated that it is the ambition of the social sector to look primarily at fast and also at flex. Flex houses are therefore not sustainable social. That's what I'm worried about. In addition, when the Authority indicates that we should at all be very critical of the capacity of housing corporations when realising sufficient housing, I do not think that this bill is really such a bad stick to ensure that we never get into a situation where it gets less with all those uncertainties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u38	The demand for added value remains. I have made a number of comments. If you were to ask, "does something go wrong when the bill is passed?', I say, "Well, I don't think so. But does it help us to get our goals closer? I don't believe that. Because your objective, as well as the objective of the cabinet, is more social housing. Let me get a few elements from your question. I would never dare say that flex is not sustainable, because flex must of course meet the same conditions. Perhaps you mean that we are not sure whether these flex houses will actually be available, because that could be part of the argument. We know that flex houses provide social housing in the fastest possible way. That does not change the future question, but at least it is the fastest way to provide social housing, so I think we should do it. By the way, the flex houses of today are hardly distinguishable from other houses. When you see how they roll off the band: that's very impressive. I think it is only important that we actually use this type of innovation. Sales are indeed mentioned in the coalition agreement. I think it's okay to take back the reason for that. The reason for this is that I read the assignment from the coalition agreement, which is that we also want to give people with a small wallet the opportunity to build their own house. It's about land-based housing. It also says "under conditions," because you don't want to go to all speckled possessions, which can result in later viability issues or sustainability issues. You want to get to the possibility that the people who have the money and could buy it while there is actually no affordable house to buy in the region are given the opportunity to buy a property. I think it's a very nice way to allow people to own their own home. You wouldn't mind promoting that. This is also without prejudice to the need for social rent and the need for social rent in the future. In short, the corporations will just have to build. We have enabled them to do so by abolishing the landlord's tax. We enable them to do so because we make performance agreements with municipalities and provinces. We make arrangements with the corporate sector ourselves. This should lead to 250,000 social housing to be built and 350,000 middle homes which will bring the flow back on. Once in a while, periodically, we'll have to see if that's enough. But that's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u39	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u40	The last reason I think this bill is good as a stick behind the door is that for the production of social housing, of course, you are not only dependent on corporations. In the picture, of course, it is true that the social category in the current market, with prices at all, think of conversations with project developers just isn't profitable anymore. Project developers do not want to add this because it is no longer profitable for them. With these restructuring measures, which the Minister rightly mentions, the social category is simply an underprivileged child, otherwise it is very often impossible for them to get it done otherwise. I see that as a great concern too. Then this proposal, at least in the performance agreements, is a stick behind the door, to ensure that you can also know that development. Does the Minister also see this as a threat to the social sector in the future? Because then this bill could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u41	A few things. Of course, I sometimes hear such noises from the sector, such as: it would no longer be profitable. But I don't really want to do that at all. Why is that even so? If you wanted to build an entire district socially on very expensive land, that might be an issue, but that is not what we ask of corporations or municipalities. To be honest, we have tried to explain this to ourselves too often over the past few years, and we have tried to explain that it would not be profitable for ordinary people to build affordable buildings. If that's true, there's a lot of things wrong. Then we must make sure that it is profitable again. How do you do that? That's what you do, for starters, by making clear agreements. I do that with provinces and with regions and municipalities in their zoning plan. That is what makes the market more creative, because it is all too easy to explain to itself that it would not necessarily be possible. That also has to do with how land is valued. If you value land on priceless properties, then the land price is very high. If you value land on the houses that are going to be built, namely for two thirds affordable, then it also does something with the land price. In our entire system we have accepted that a spiral upwards has been deployed in the cost price for normal homes. It's up to us to bend that spiral down again. I believe that in our discussions with corporations, developers and municipalities, we should not be too quick to put down the flag that would not be profitable and that it would not be possible anymore. I think that we should simply make sure that we can do so, even without imposing an endless amount of taxpayers' money against it. This is often a reason to explain to municipalities or the minister that it is not profitable. It is hoped that there will be a large bag of taxpayers' money to close the gap. I would say: let's give people a little bit of credit for a little more creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u42	Very good. Has the Minister already come to the end of his contribution, his neutral contribution? Or does he have a few neutral things to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u43	I think I have indeed had the questions, thanks to the interruptions. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u44	Then I'll stop the first term very quickly before you change your mind and still find a nice thing to tell us. I note that this was the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Mr. Van Baarle? You don't have to. No? Very good. Mr. Geurts didn't either? No. Mrs. Leijten? He never says no. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u45	Mr. Chairman. It is always a celebration to be in the process of examining an initiative proposal. The work as a Member of Parliament, as co-legislator, is just a lot of work. It'll take time. There are three parties. We're gonna need some coordination. You go on the farmer, you go see if there's support and if there's parties that might want to support it. What could be more beautiful than the government saying: we have a neutral position? The minister says there's nothing wrong with adopting this law, but the law doesn't help. And whatever we ask about a soil being laid, at least not to reduce it, the Minister does not really go into that. The practice of recent years is a different one than he wants for the future. We will, of course, support the Minister wherever he wants to make it happen. But we all know him, "You can't live in shit." So we must also have the certainty that it will not diminish. That was also stated by the entire Chamber with the Marijnissen motion. Only JA21 and Van Haga were against it. Even the VVD and the CDA were before it. It is not the intention of the new government policy to get less social housing. If that's what you're up for, then you're up for this bill, too. It doesn't stand in the way. I have one more question about the Marijnissen motion. I read everywhere, also because there is discussion about that 30%, that there are now an average of 34% of social housing and that there is a huge spread in the country. Is that right? If that is the case, the ambition of this government would be a reduction and I wonder whether the Marijnis motion is being implemented. Then there is the question: on your own strength or not? If you live in a social housing unit, are you someone who can't do something on his own? Is that how you're supposed to be seen? Does it have to be seen that taxpayers' money has to be turned against it, as the Minister said? I therefore believe that he should look at those people who could not have a merchant house on their own, who would never have been able to pay a mortgage without the mortgage interest subsidy. Because let's be honest, when we look at the proportions of that support, that gets a little bit the same. Maybe it'll even get to the owner of the house. When you say "restructure, that should always be with the rent" and "on your own strength, those are always those tenants"... I live in one of those neighborhoods that has been restructured. I'm inviting the Minister here. This has been done in such a way that there has not been a mixed neighbourhood, people have not met, the rental homes in which people live have not improved or social conditions have not improved. I think this is an example of how we should not do it. I'd like to show the minister around sometime. Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. Let me read it to you. The first motion concerns at least 30% social rent. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to apply a minimum standard of 30% social rent;]] [[noting that there are municipalities still reducing their share of social housing;]] [[considers that in municipalities with more than 30% share of social housing that share should not decrease;]] [[calls on the government to use the 30% standard only to increase the share socially and not to reduce it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34974-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u46	Then the next motion: demolish, not right now. Nice title, huh? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 11,000 homes are being demolished each year;]] [[noting that the housing crisis is growing steadily;]] [[Whereas new construction is not only a CO bomb but is also extremely limited by nitrogen rules;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a moratorium on demolition until the housing shortage is reduced to the desired level of 2%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34974-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u47	Mr. Chairman. I did not intend to repeat the whole first period, but I would like to thank the three applicants for their reply, also on behalf of Mr D66. I think that in the coming period we will be talking about the goal of sufficient social housing, which we as a VVD also endorse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u48	That was short indeed. Mrs Mutluer, the last speaker from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u49	I didn't hear what was said, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u50	No. You better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u51	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address myself to the counsellor of the initiators, because I must say that I would have expected a very different approach from him, given his focus or, I must say, his focus on results. If you really want to build more affordable homes for those who are vulnerable, for them, young people, who have been on a waiting list for 11 years, for the elderly and for people who want to move from a care facility to a normal home, which we care about again, the minister has also been a junior youth care officer and also knows that the accommodation costs are huge, then you should not only look at new buildings, but also at existing housing, and you should embrace such a fantastic proposal from my colleagues in which they advocate the preservation of social housing. That disappoints me very much. I'd like to express that here. I also heard some assumptions. I know of municipalities that had made some performance agreements before the crisis, agreeing with each other that the total social housing stock would not fall. That was very convenient, because those were also the municipalities that had enough homes in the crisis. What did you see after the crisis, after 2018? A lot of homes were demolished. And rightly so, because the houses were very bad. Before any new social rentals were built, we knew that we were ten years away. The nitrogen problem was a very big problem, finding contractors, finding people. I am afraid that if you do not give a positive opinion on this proposal... I think I have to convince my colleagues and not rulers. I say as a former driver, as someone who stood up very much for those who need an affordable home, that if you don't keep those homes up for yourself as a society, you're going to create a problem, even though you temporarily embrace this proposal. I'm very much in favour of it. I say that passionately. Again, it is a nice initiative and I really hope the Minister looks at his heart and thinks: boys, I'm just going to give neutral positive advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u52	Thank you. I thought he was so neutral. So much for the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mr Nijboer to say something. He may, if he so wishes, comment on the two motions tabled. At least I hear an opinion on the motions from Mr De Jonge. I'm going to suspend for three minutes and then we're going to listen to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u53	I give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No further questions were asked to the initiators in the second period. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions, both in writing and in the debate last time, and for the questions that have been put today. It was a pleasure for us to defend the bill. We take a neutral position on the motions, but I can highly recommend them to you. Finally, I would like to thank the staff who have made all this possible. We are sitting here in the front and giving answers. We must also do something, but most of the work comes from the staff, who have sorted out all the legal matters and made a wonderful initiative law for you, which we will put to the vote next Tuesday. Mustapha, Jaap and Milo, thank you so much for your work. We hope for a happy ending next Tuesday. You have the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u55	Very good. Thank you. Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u56	Thank you, Mr President. A single question has been put by Mrs Leijten and there are two motions. The question is, will I ever check on her in the neighborhood? I'd love to. I'd really like to do that. On the contrary, I find it very interesting to learn from neighbourhoods and from wrong choices in restructuring. It seems to me that these have been made with some regularity. By the way, I should not rule out the fact that generations after us also say about our choices that they were not the right ones. But indeed, in the whole of the people's house tradition, a lot of things have happened to neighborhoods that, with everything we know and see now, we would have said: would you please have done this differently? So I'm highly recommended for that tour. The figure for social housing is currently really below 30%, on average about 26%, 27%. If that were a neatly spread average, it wouldn't necessarily be the issue. The point is that there are municipalities with over 40% and municipalities with well below 20%. I think that's a real problem. That's why we're aiming for that 30%. That brings me to the motion in part No. 11. It states: "Asks the government to use that 30% norm only to increase the share socially and not to reduce it." That's right. That standard is used for this purpose. However, I really want to make a comment on the third indent. It states that in municipalities with more than 30% share of social housing, that share should not fall. Of course, I can't live up to that. Take the municipality of Rotterdam, which has been mentioned a lot. Assuming that the municipality of Rotterdam concentrates on the middle segment in particular in its new construction, this de facto reduces the share of social. That's inevitable. So I can't live up to the third indent, but the norming is indeed meant to be correct, so that municipalities that are already well above 30% can concentrate on the middle segment. I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u57	What does that mean for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u58	With this remark I can leave the operative part to the Court's opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u59	Then the verdict is Chamber, Mrs. Leijten. Take your winnings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u60	Yes, I thought I had to negotiate with the Minister and I had to say: if I take that consideration out, can she get judgment Chamber? But you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u61	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u62	If only we had negotiated. I should have sold my skin more expensive anyway. But when judging, I mostly look at the operative part and that operative part is fine. That is precisely what the standardisation is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u63	That's gonna be something with that tour you're gonna get through Mrs. Leijten's neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u64	It's gonna be a long afternoon. I think I'm gonna book the night off, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u65	Yeah, I'd do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u66	The motion in part No. 12 calls on the government to put in place a moratorium on demolition until the housing shortage is reduced. Of course you can't. Housing corporations should also be able to carry out real replacement new construction. In fact, that's often in the same location, so you can't. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u67	That's great. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-tweedekamer-38.u68	Thanks to the initiators, their policy staff and the minister for today. On Tuesday we will vote on the law and the two motions. I shall close the sitting of 7 June 2022.
