ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the Digital Government Act. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as well as the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. It's about a novelle. I would also like to ask the spokesmen to focus their attention on this. There has already been a debate and this debate is about the novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Myrthe couldn't sign up for a train ticket, because an automatic credit check found that she was in debt. That's not true; it was the previous resident at her address. "First I thought it was a mistake," says Myrthe in Trouw. "so I contacted the NS. I told you I never had a debt. But they believe in the system in the first place. And it's really hard to prove that the system is wrong." The SP asked questions about this in January and last night there was finally an answer. My response to that answer is: we have no idea what is going on with automated systems, how they work and what procedures have been set up to correct errors. And when things go wrong, you say, "Go to the Personal Data Authority and he'll fix it." Dealing with the GDPR, sharing data, collecting data, missing human intervention in case of errors when people get an automated decision, dealing with so-called technology-independent legislation: they are all issues that affect this proposal. They certainly touch "the next instalments" of this law, as it is called. The Council of State wrote a good opinion on this. I remember when we received this together last June. You did so as President of the Chamber, and I did so at the time as President-in-Office of the Committee on Digital Affairs. In that opinion, the Council of State warns us about the digitisation of legislative processes and administrative law. The Council of State says precisely about these technology-independent matters: they are not technologically independent, because they make choices that you, as a co-legislator, as a Chamber, have to keep in mind. According to the Council of State, choices can be made in such a way as to reveal what you actually intended with the proposal. We still have no response to that advice. Actually, I think that's a shame. We are dealing here with a law in which I see a lot of things from the opinion of the Council of State on the novelle. Those things are consistent with that warning we received from the Council of State about our position as legislator, but certainly with a lot of advice to the government on how to make laws that affect digitisation better. We have known for a long time that ICT and government are not a happy marriage. We've seen the supplemental scandal. The result was incredibly painful for people. It was called "unintentional racism" this week. Anyway, we all knew it: low income, single mother, different background, different surname, certain religions; the scores in the risk selection system did make you lie on top of the pile. We also know the destruction of human lives that led to this. They had questions about that that they didn't get answered: why did that happen? A lot of people fought the state on their own. That was the result. One of the simple things is: wrong decision-making requires human intervention. The answer to the parliamentary questions is very much that it is desirable and actually follows from the GDPR, but we have no idea. And here we are dealing with a law that does not solve the exclusion or the emergence of racism or other deep misery in the context of government and digitisation. No, this is about the first instalment of the Digital Government Act. He's the one who's gonna arrange for private log-in systems to be set up. DigiD's no good anymore. That's a public login system. We're not gonna improve that. No, we're taking it to the market. The first law was so flawed that the First Chamber said: deliver better work. That's not just what the First Chamber said. The Council of State also said that. A lot of experts who were heard said so, too. This government, this government, sees the data economy as an opportunity and continues to use algorithms that people don't allow in their value. As a result, people are increasingly dependent on digital communication with the government. We are actually at a point where we need to answer a fundamental question: how do we want the government to deal with digital resources? When people log in, do we want that to happen via private means? The previous government stated, and this Secretary of State continues to do so, that it would give people more freedom of choice. But you mostly want there to be a login that's good and that you're sure will work. Now there's a new law. The law was too vague. The supervisory task could not be completed. The direction that people need to be able to control on their own data and data usage was also not enough. But the previous Secretary of State, Mr Delors, probably also gave the answer: yes, that comes with the second part of the law. But I think we need to answer those fundamental questions before we take this step towards private logging. How can the Chamber agree to this? How can anyone here ask... Can I ask the Secretary of State to answer exactly what open source is, if that is the norm in the future? Or, as the Secretary of State says, is parties required to move towards the use of open source? That is what the note on the basis of the report says. The Council of State says: you have to call man and horse, because talking about mammals is too abstract. The Council of State probably wrote that then, when they were wondering what exactly "a move towards open source" means. But perhaps the Secretary of State can make that clear here. Private companies that develop login resources may not sell those data; but they may use that data to make money, to make good advertisements, aimed at the person, on the basis of that collected data. The Secretary of State's reaction is that it is outside the competence of this bill and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do something about it. That seems very strange to me, because as a government, we can make demands on the use of data obtained by logging in. That is why I have made a clarifying amendment to this proposal, and I do not know if it has already gone through, but otherwise it will come soon, but my conclusion was that this legislative proposal is not really the right way to amend it. Because it keeps that vagueness about 'technology-independent processes', which the Council of State is right to say: keep an eye on, because there are essential political choices in that. We have now said that the data obtained by logging in should not be used for anything else either. They may not be sold, but they may not be used for advertising, for example. However, we would prefer to see good log-in with public services regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u4	There is an interruption by Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u5	I've got three in my head in the meantime, so I'm just gonna see which one I'm gonna do. When it comes to commercial exploitation and advertising, I think the SP will find the entire Chamber by saying that any commercial use of personal data falls outside the scope of this bill. I think that has been clarified by the Secretary of State. We were very happy about that. Doesn't that mean no advertising? If it is so clear that all these forms fall outside the scope of this bill, in which there is the concern: that it is not in good shape or that it is not done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u6	[[Sentence could not be parsed: In dat het er niet in staat.]] There is no prohibition of use. Your dates are known. They may not be sold, but there is no prohibition on using your data, while all you do is use that tool to log in for access to public services. Then we need to delete those data, as far as we're concerned. You just can't use them. That is what the amendment is about to be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u7	Then I'm gonna go get the lyrics, because I would have read it differently. The explanatory memorandum states that the general regulation of all forms of commercial exploitation of personal data is outside the scope of this legislative proposal. The explanatory statement has been clarified on this point. So I don't see... but I'll wait for the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u8	But nothing is outside this bill. This bill can take care of anything. It's a totally inexplicable comment on state law. Then the Secretary of State can get her signature out of it. This bill regulates that there will be private providers that offer resources that allow you to log in to governments. They can use it to collect data, because it takes data to log in. They can't sell that data, but they can't use it, so they have to erase it. That's definitely about this bill. I also find it inexplicable to say that we are not dealing with that. We'll deal with that. We are really talking about that, in what we decide, because we decide to allow these private means of logging in here. So we decide what these private companies can do with that data. The SP says, "Don't sell and don't trade, but don't use."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u9	Last time. I couldn't agree more. But I actually hear something in between. Does the SP even consider it desirable that there should be market players, whatever requirements they meet, who are going to make this type of log-in? 'Cause that's a little tricky for me. If the SP says "we don't really care; whatever requirements in the field of security or the processing of personal data a company meets, we don't trust it anyway," we have a different discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u10	Well, putting it right in the law would significantly improve the law. But does that mean that we are for this first tranche and those private means of logging in? No. We weren't on the first round, either. We think that at the moment when you make it possible to log in to public authorities, you should preferably do so through a public party. Actually, this is the bill "digidify." We'll keep that, but you'll get more freedom of choice. In my opinion, people are not so much waiting for freedom of choice as for good and good. We believe that it would significantly improve the law if at least the data obtained were not to be used in any way by those private means.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u11	You could also have said that at least there must be a public means of logging in both citizens and businesses. You can send it all the way to the market or you can make the condition that there must be at least a working login. Maybe that's enough for the SP too? Or are you saying never ever offer a private login?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u12	Never? That is a very big word, but on the basis of this bill I say: do not allow it. I think I'm over there. I really think we should answer other fundamental questions here first. We should be talking about the Council of State report we have been discussing with the government's response. We could then make many agreements, including with the government, on legislation that has digital choices in it. How are we gonna make sure of that? For example, the opinion states that Article 22 of the GDPR is to be properly developed, so that a human intervention is always possible when someone requests it. That is up to the data processor now, but there are so many and they share so much with each other that hardly can be traced back where that data came from, where it went wrong and where you should improve it. We should have that debate. I think we'd be pretty quick to agree. If that foundation is properly arranged and there are private means of logging in that foundation that are going to do their job, then it might be possible if there really is the will for that freedom of choice. But the foundation is now data collection, data sharing and the data economy. According to the coalition agreement, this offers a lot of opportunities, but we are on the cautious side of what we have seen with all that data. That is why we believe that this legislative proposal with that possibility is the wrong foundation, the wrong starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u13	I understand that cautious side very well. But where it went wrong is with the public institutions. A public login still doesn't assure me that every public organization does good things with it. We have seen in the past that that is no guarantee that it is going well either. In addition, you could also say that private individuals may provoke a number of innovations that are also good. Sometimes the business community can do this a little better than the government. Do you hold on so hard that audiences are always better than privates? Shouldn't you be giving private people a chance, provided there is always a public option?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u14	That things are going terribly wrong with the government and ICT, I kind of started with that. We have had debates here for years about DigiD, that it was unsafe and you name it. We see a lot of data leaks in government institutions. The previous debate was a bit of a joke to my predecessor here about the fact that the Tax Administration was going to design e-recognition. We can still have whole debates on how very good or not that works for people. To say that the government can do better than the market, I really will not do in this area. But it's about public guarantees. The market is about making profits. That profit is about data you issue as a resident to communicate with the government. I think that's a bit of a point of principle. I think that in development a lot could be learned from the market, but the availability of our data should not be disclosed in this way. I have tabled an amendment to this effect, which I hope will be supported by a majority. Is the SP going to vote for this bill? The consequence of the vote against last time will now also be there. I would like to see us first having that fundamental debate and changing that base, rather than continuing on the idea of the data economy and "everyone will be happy about it." But most of all, it's very risky for your data. Yesterday we also had a debate on this at the Telecom Council. At that time, the Minister did not always have a good answer. We are not, in fact, in that fundamental debate yet, but we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. Recently a research report was published by Bits of Freedom. Municipalities don't have their data security in order. They have too little knowledge, too little resources and too little priority for this issue. Bits of Freedom therefore advises that the government should not come up with all new plans, but first put the foundation in order. This advice seems to apply here too, and I hope that the cabinet will take this to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Pick the fruits of digitization, but limit the shadow sides. This means ensuring safety and accessibility in digital applications. These are key principles that come back again and again when we are discussing legislation on the digital government. Today we are discussing a novelle of the Digital Government Act, a law whose internet consultation started in 2016. The novelle responds to concerns from the First Chamber about the law. The D66 Group is in favour of this, because the principles of these changes are moving in the right direction, such as privacy by design, a ban on the trading of data and the prescription of open source. But there are a lot of questions that remain open. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the ban on the trading of data, which is an important improvement, because it should not be the case that logging in for public services becomes a earning model for companies. If we read Article 9 (2) correctly, questions will remain. Is this also about metadata and aggregated data? Is it therefore forbidden to make a profile with that data? Is trading metadata also excluded in this bill? If not, I am considering submitting an amendment to this effect. Does the Minister consider that the ban on trade in general is sufficiently strict, so that companies do not offer logging resources because of the data they collect? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about open source, because the pursuit of open source is good, as long as this can be done safely. Transparency and security ensure confidence in these systems, but it may be even more ambitious with regard to D66. At present, the bill states that there must be a minimum amount of open source. How do you measure this? What is the Secretary of State going to base this on? Wouldn't it be more desirable if we suggested "open source, unless"? Does the Secretary of State think it's likely that big techs are able to meet the open source requirements? According to the Open Government Act, all government source codes are governed by the law. After all, everything must be traceable. How do the requirement for open source and this law in general relate to the requirement already contained in the Open Government Act? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my third topic, privacy by design. I understand the difficult balance between good guarantees and not laying down too specific technical requirements in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u19	Just too late, I think. I call Mrs Rajkowski, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u20	I was chewing on that "open source, unless." If I understood correctly, D66 just suggested that there should be some more open source, so let's go to "open source, unless." I'd like to ask D66 to finish that sentence. "Open source, unless..."?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u21	By "open source, unless" I mean that ideally should be in the law that it should be open source, unless it does not meet, for example, the safety requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u22	What if open source does meet the safety requirements, but closed source is a safer solution? If both meet the safety requirements, but one is safer, namely closed source, what is D66 for? For the safety of the inhabitants and their data or for the ideological pursuit of open source?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u23	I guess these two things don't bite each other. It is not true that open source is, by definition, not safe. If you have a good community that controls that, then open source is safer. Because you'll have access to the source code. Secondly, of course, it is not a programme with demands. You cannot choose between a safe or a less secure option. So the government isn't buying in here. You only allow providers. There is a requirement, namely minimum safety. If you meet that, you can offer your products.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u24	Then there is my final interruption, because that is precisely the point and the concern of the VVD. Open source is of course a beautiful ideological model. It is a goal that the world can see to a greater or lesser extent how safe a system is. But it can be so dependent on a community. Communities change, too. That's where our concern lies. With us, security is paramount. It's the safest option, whether it's open source or closed source. We think that is the most important thing. These are means of identification for Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm gonna take a look at that anyway. We do not see open source as an ideology. Open source is better for transparency. I think it's just better. Open source is not ideological. Again, if open source is safe enough, we would choose open source instead of closed source, because then there is no guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u26	I'd like to ask you a few more questions about those dates. Suppose, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz has a child and indicates this digitally to the municipality of Utrecht. Then suddenly she gets all these ads that are aimed at diapers, little kids and you name it all. Of course you can, because the data, the data, are known. They may not have been traded, but they are used commercially. That would be the outcome of this bill at the moment. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think that is a very good question, because that is where our concerns lie. By the way, giving up a child at the municipality is not the case now, but it is the case if you get the happy box. Be warned, I say. Don't do it. If we understand the legislative proposal and the explanatory statement that has just been read by Mrs Rajkowski so much, then that is not included. So you can't commercially exploit it. That is why I am asking this question, more or less indirectly, to the Secretary of State. What are we actually banning with the ban on trade? Can it be extended, too? Can you make a profile? Can you turn off metadata?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u28	I really think that all of D66's good questions. I also know Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz as someone who looks after this very closely. However, I find it worrying that the note on the report stated that this would not be the scope of the Ministry. I have just said that, in response to Mrs Rajkowski. That is, of course, our scope. After all, we are making a law allowing private means of identification to be used. That means that your data comes into the hands of private organizations. They can't trade them. They can't use them commercially. What would they be allowed to use it for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u29	If it is up to me, they should only use it to check whether Mrs Leijten is indeed Mrs Leijten, and no more than that. If it's more than that, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Because then it would be really worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u30	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u31	I will continue my speech. I understand the difficult balance between establishing good safeguards and not too specific technical requirements in the law, especially in the case of digitalisation. That is where resources and technology change rapidly. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on what privacy by design will then have to comply with? Are there any organisational requirements for this? How will this be tested? Which guidelines are being followed? Of course, it shouldn't be a statement of intent. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll join the surveillance. Monitoring is an important requirement not only when new suppliers join, but also when technological developments occur. Does the Secretary of State consider that the Telecom Agency has sufficient capacity to do this properly? This is about private service providers. Public service providers are subject to inter-administrative supervision. How does that work? Then who's gonna supervise municipalities? Does that mean we're dealing with provinces? Do they have the expertise and sufficient resources? I also received the message from a number of municipalities that they fear that they will be able to comply with the law. Has there been contact with municipalities to find out if they can deal with this in good time? Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to talk about the role of big tech. The door is opened to innovation, but also to new problems. Think, for example, of phasing out the text. We understand that using an authentication app is safer than texting, but isn't it forcing people to go to the Google or Apple ecosystem to download an app? Does the Secretary of State consider this desirable? Are there any alternatives? Finally, I have a number of separate questions. First of all. Can the Secretary of State explain how this law relates to the eIDAS Regulation? Secondly, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she considers it desirable to bring forward the evaluation to three years to look at the implementation of the law. I'm considering a motion on this. Finally. To what extent is the novella in line with the Council of State's checklist on digitisation and legislation, given that this report is fairly recent? I would like to receive a reflection from the Secretary of State on this. I have a lot of questions, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Rajkowski, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you for allowing us to have this debate under your leadership on this happy day, Mr President. Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. The VVD agrees with the points on which the proposal has been amended, but also makes a few comments on blind steering on open source. Physically, of course, checking identity is a lot easier. Someone comes with a passport to the desk, you can check a fingerprint and you can see more easily if the person pretends to be someone else. Online this is a lot more difficult, but necessary. That is why instruments such as DigiD have been used for years. This allows people to communicate safely, reliably and accessible to the government. It's all getting a little safer, more accessible and more reliable. That's what this law does. The First and Second Chambers are therefore satisfied with this. The First Chamber still provided a number of privacy guarantees that they claimed to miss in the law. In the opinion of the VVD, the Secretary of State has amended the law accordingly. We still have some concerns. First, I've got something on open source. Then I will say a few words about the standards on information security. Open source first. Together you are smarter, so open source can also be a safer option. This can also reduce your dependence on software providers, which in turn can benefit innovation, security and the fight against bureaucracy. The pursuit of open source is therefore understandable, but security is at the forefront of the VVD, not whether something is open or closed source, no matter how strong the lobby sometimes is towards parliament. The VVD has a number of questions about this. In order for open source to be safe, it is important to make a good assessment of exactly what open source is going to contain. There are, of course, all kinds of gradations, from transparency to control and being able to write it or not. How is it assessed in the interim, if an open source option has already been chosen, whether open source is still the safest and most reliable form? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that it is also impossible to ask the supplier to share a list of all the open source software he uses? It is precisely because of the complexity of digital systems that it is not always clear which software is connected and what is used underwater. We saw that Log4j was sometimes four layers underwater in systems and that it actually affected almost all companies and organizations. It's just really hard to get an insight into that. So how's the Secretary of State handling this? Finally, on this subject, is it true that the choice of open or closed source falls into lower regulation and that it is also being put before Parliament? Mr President, last but not least, the standards for secure e-mail protocols. The bill also offers opportunities to oblige governments to use standards for information security, such as protocols for safer e-mail, including communication among themselves. But it is still unclear to my group how that is going to be dealt with now. My question to the Secretary of State is simple: how is this going? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to endorse the remarks made by the SP. Data should not be traded or used internally for commercial purposes. When it comes to this kind of information, it's a no-go as far as we're concerned. I also agree with the concerns expressed by Mrs Dekker of D66. We must also avoid pushing people into the arms of the big tech by such laws. It would be nice if we could become more independent of that. So my group agrees with these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u35	I wonder how Mrs Rajkowski read the demand for open source. I myself will ask a number of questions about this to the Secretary of State. The legal text talks about open source licensed, and in the explanatory memorandum it is really about free software that should also be made available free of charge. How does Mrs Rajkowski read that? And how does she feel about you imposing on private parties, mostly commercial companies, to make their source code, their source code free and free of charge to everyone? Does Mrs Rajkowski think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u36	I'll start with the last one. If private parties would like to go into the domain of being able to identify themselves with public companies, they will really have to meet the most stringent requirements. And transparency is also included. Of course, that doesn't mean that they have to expose the source code of their entire system. But they have to expose the source code of the systems that deal with identification. I think that's all right. We already have DigiD. We want to make it more reliable and safer. It is precisely if you want it to be very safe and reliable that there will also have to be more openness in a certain way. Companies will then have to decide whether to contribute to it or not. The first question asked by the PVV was about open source. That is precisely why I asked: what kind of open source is it about? I also just interrupted with colleague of D66. Then I said that the tricky thing with some free open source is that it's so dependent on the community. And communities change. As far as we're concerned, open source really isn't the holy grail. These are new developments, not in the real world, but in the world in which we enter. It is good that we are talking about this and that we are thinking about it. But as far as I'm concerned, it just has to be the safest thing. I don't care if it's open source or closed source.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you. In itself, Mrs Rajkowski and I agree. But of course you can also work with an obligation to publish the part of the source code that is the implementation part. The security, the firewall doesn't have to be there. We agree. But of course it doesn't necessarily have to be added that the software is available for free to other developers. You can work there with some kind of copyright, just like with books. You publish books, but then it is not allowed for others to write them all over for free. So that's another option. When it comes to transparency, we can also choose to do so. Maybe that's what they chose. This must be demonstrated by the answers to my clarifying questions that I am about to ask. But does Mrs Rajkowski see that as a minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u38	Actually, I'd be open to that. Actually, I have to think about another situation right away. If you buy food in the grocery store, there is a label that contains the ingredients, but it doesn't necessarily contain the recipe. And if there are real doubts about whether a banana, an apple or the contents of a jar is safe or not, then there is always an instance that can dive deeper into the information and check it. So you could indeed infer from that that we may not have to reveal everything, but just a little bit. But this is about means of identification. There's gonna be multiple options. Residents can find it exciting that they have to choose between means. I want every resource to be 100% safe. And then there has to be an option, at least for a controlling authority, to be able to check the code behind the decimal place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u39	We are here talking about a Digital Government Act that is now being improved with a novelle. This is welcomed by Mrs Rajkowski. But if it had been up to the majority in the Lower House, we would have agreed to the previous bill in January 2020, which was not good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u41	How does the VVD Group look at that? That group voted in favour of the previous legislative proposal. How does the VVD Group look back that we, so a majority of the House of Representatives, are being flagged back by the First Chamber when it comes to digital safeguards? Especially the pro-voters are, of course, whistled back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u42	I think it's a good thing the First Chamber did. I'll just call it "progressive insight." As far as we are concerned, this does not mean that the whole underlying bill is wrong, but I am very pleased with the adjustments that have been made. I do not entirely agree to see open source as a holy grail, but I think it would be wise to consider open source.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u43	Now the VVD welcomes a novella that is quite critical of, including the Council of State, including the definitions, but also the delegation clause and the limitation of the processing of that data, that data. That is precisely what is called the three points of improvement. In the light of the previous law, which the Council of State was very critical of and what the VVD was for then, there is now an improvement that the VVD welcomes, but at the same time the Council of State is critical of. Does that affect the VVD's assessment of the proposed bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u44	In that sense it certainly does some good that we went through the dust comb again. Okay, if the First Chamber asks for a novelle, then it's important that we take a closer look. And as for privacy by design and open source, I am very happy that we are talking about this now. I do not know whether that was changed at all in the House of Representatives two years ago. I don't know; maybe I was, but I wasn't there then. If these subjects were exchanged then and the VVD said 'we do not see anything', then you will have our new position. But I think it's a good thing that we're looking at this now, given the developments of our time. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State has changed the points nicely. It is important to look at privacy by design, so privacy is always included. Fortunately, we also have the GDPR and we have the eIDAS regulation. So I think we have a nice package of legislation and regulations to make it as safe as possible. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that data should not be used for any commercial gain, therefore not internally either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u45	But there has just been an amendment on that, No. Eight, that it's even better. But I do find it worrying. This is now the third bill that passes on the digital communication with the government by residents and making profiles, such as with the National Approach Address Quality. Every time there are red flag opinions and every time a majority of this House votes in favour, while two or three months ago we also had the debate on the legislative role of the Chamber. So when it comes to the government wanting to go a little further, I really hope that the VVD Group is a little more critical. Because I often hear a critical tone, and I like that very much, with the VVD and, for example, with D66, but when voting these parties are in line again. In my view, that is precisely what the Bosman Committee said: pay attention to this legislative task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm not in line with anyone, just with my own conscience. I have the amendment to item No. 8 hasn't been read yet, but I'll take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u47	There is another interruption by Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u48	Still about open source; I can't help it. I hear the VVD yelling that we shouldn't drive people into the arms of big tech. But an ambitious open source makes sure big tech doesn't get a foot in the door here. How's the VVD looking at this? I have a second question. The VVD says it wants to have a lot of insight into security, but you don't have that insight at open source. But you don't have that on closed source either, because you can't look at the source code. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u49	I think my colleague from D66 shows just how difficult it is, whether you choose closed source or open source. It is context-dependent and depends on which functionalities it is intended for. That is why I think it is important to know what considerations are being made. What's being looked at? Safety's at the top of the line. So regardless of which of the two it becomes, in both cases it must be guaranteed. Security for the VVD also means that we pay attention to our strategic independence, so we don't become dependent on Google, Apple or Microsoft in all kinds of places within the government. If we bring this back into more and more systems, we will become so strategically dependent that security can be at stake to some extent. As far as we are concerned, that is an integral consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u50	Finally. Those are indeed the bigtech companies called the VVD. We believe that open source providers could counter this and provide alternatives. This allows us to become less dependent on big tech. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u51	We are certainly not against open source either, so if I have given that impression, I can remove it. We're both fine with it. Only, when we read the pieces, we thought: ooh, we should be careful not to stare blindly at open source. That's our concern. But we're both fine as long as security is priority number one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you, Mr President. This legal treatment doesn't deserve a beauty prize. A difficult journey of more than four or five years with an ugly novel as disappointing conclusion. While Dutch companies have been jumping for years to obtain authorisation or recognition under the Digital Government Act, they have to watch their European competitors, who only have to meet the basic requirements of the eIDAS Directive, now threaten to enter the Dutch market. Beautiful Dutch companies and high-level initiatives, both in terms of privacy and security, are forced to sit on their hands, while witnessing the struggle of parliament with this law. Parliament does not seem to be getting a grip on digitalisation and, as a result, passes bad legislation. I really think that we should do this better as a Chamber in future. With the arrival of the permanent Committee on Digital Affairs, we also have every opportunity to do this better in future. The amount of expertise offered to us from outside is very valuable. It has helped me personally to gain more insight into the law and the amendment that is now before me. Mr. Chairman. That was also very necessary, because this change of law does not excel in clarity nor in feasibility, let alone in testability. This ugly novel must satisfy the First Chamber so that it still agrees with the Digital Government Act, under the guise of "the end justifies the means" and "something is better than nothing." Mr. Chairman. The PVV has great difficulty with that. First of all about the first element of the amending law: privacy by design. As far as we are concerned, that is a completely open door. The General Data Protection Regulation already regulates this. The same applies in part to the second element: the ban on the marketing of personal data. The PVV wonders how this is going to be tested, especially in the case of products that are partly based on closed-source software. These are allowed temporarily until enough open source alternatives are available. But if the source code cannot be accessed, how can you verify that a private party does not somehow make money with user login or authentication data obtained by profiling or enriching data or something like that? How can you adequately control this? And who's gonna check that out? The Agency Telecom? Department officials? I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take us very precisely into the process of scrutiny that is in front of her. This automatically brings me to the third and most problematic part of the present legislative amendment: the obligation for private parties to use as much open source software as possible. The PVV has a lot of questions about this, first of all about the feasibility. How do you check the extent to which open source is used, especially if something is part of a product that is partly based on closed source software? By the way, many pieces of open source software are already being used today. About every software package contains many hundreds of open source dependencies, so-called building blocks. Will each building block then be assessed separately to see to what extent a sufficiently large community supervises its quality? How do you measure whether a piece of open source has been checked enough by a competent community member? Can the Secretary of State state state when this multi-eye principle is met? How does she weigh this in the light of Log4J vulnerabilities, which Mrs Rajkowski also mentioned? The global open source community has looked over that for no less than eight years. That piece of source code, that building block, it's pretty much been incorporated into everything. The aftermath of this will continue for many years and it is painful to see that the use of an existing available open source code cannot give the hard guarantee that the software will be safer. Once again, I am asking the Secretary of State who should check and assess whether sufficient use is being made of open source software in a product for which authorisation is requested. How is this minimum standard quantified? And who checks that there is indeed no open source alternative for closed source parts of the product? Again: is that the officials of a ministry, or is that the Telecom Agency or any other supervisor? Mr. Chairman. I understand that we are discussing the framework law which will be further worked out, but we need to consider here whether what we are trying to do is feasible. Furthermore, the PVV wonders how to interpret the definition of open source used in the legislative amendment. The literal description in the legal text is: software published under an open source license. But the explanatory memorandum specifically mentions open source software that is free to use, copy and modify for everyone, encouraging developers to improve the software. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly what is meant by "publicating under an open source licence"? For example, is publishing the source code of the core of the software, namely those necessary for the operation of the identifier or the enabling service sufficient? Can a private party link that publication to a restrictive license, so that free re-use of the software is not easily possible? The publication of the source code does not automatically mean that it can be copied and reused for free by everyone. A copyright or restrictive license can be placed by the creator, as can books or movies. That's totally fine. Finally, the aim is to provide transparency to users, among others. The publication of the source code will be sufficient. Anyone can see it and anyone can judge it. This way, you give private providers the opportunity to build, develop and maintain innovative resources, while maintaining transparency for users. That's win-win. Hence the question of whether private providers are required to process existing open source software in their product, which can therefore be used and reused for free. It is quite drastic to demand this also from private providers, mostly commercial companies. Then what's the earning model for them? Mr. Chairman. I would like to be clear about this, because the existing "open unless" approach to government in the field of open source software also distinguishes between these two models of open source software. There's literally the following in there. I quote. "The goal of opening up is mostly (re-) use and quality improvement of the software. If the purpose is (re-) use, the presence of an active community ('community') of (re-) users is an important success factor. The owner is then expected to be more than just making the source code available. With the release of the source code, it is therefore advisable to open a community that organises the process around changes, management and interaction. If the objective is transparency, it is often sufficient to make the source code available in a place on the Internet where there is a lot of source code to be found." We have to think about GitHub, GitLab and others. My question to the Secretary of State: why was not the obligation to partially publish the source code, the implementation part chosen? Why was it chosen to require existing free software? Or is it covered and is my concern not justified? Finally, Mr President. The PVV doubts that this novelle will remove the concerns of the First Chamber. Much will depend on the explanatory statement that the Secretary of State will give us today in this debate. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u55	I also hear the PVV have a lot of criticism of open source. By the way, open source software makes an enormous amount of money; it is not necessarily free. Anyway, there's a lot of criticism here. I hear the PVV say that closed source is safe and that open source is not necessarily. But at open source, people, the community and the supervisor are watching. With closed source, that's only the supervisor. How does the PVV find closed source safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u56	I'm sorry, Mrs Dekker didn't understand me correctly. The PVV is a huge supporter of open source software. In the time of the CoronaMelder we even tabled a motion to that effect. No, we really want that as a condition. That is our question: why isn't publishing just in the law? At least publish with a restrictive license. And if a private provider has something like "well, fine; everyone can develop it further" and so on, even better. But my minimum requirement should be to publish it, because the goal is, after all, transparency. So we're in no way for closed software. And what Mrs Rajkowski also said in her speech in interruption: it is a kind of false contradiction. What if the closed source option is safer than open source? I don't think there's such a difference. Of course, when publishing the source code, you can make a distinction. It's about what's being done with the data. In the case of login, you don't have to provide the security code too, because that's not the point. I want to see what happens to my data, where it is sent to and so on. And no matter how that company secures that whole system with a firewall or whatever, it doesn't need to be published.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u57	I get that. And we also agree that transparency is the goal of open source, not the earning model per se. But I heard the PVV literally say: how do you monitor the security of open source, while you do supervise closed source? And I wanted to say, open source gives you the regulators, the Agency Telecom, plus the whole community that's watching. So why does the PVV have questions about that, when we have no insight at all at closed source?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u58	I totally agree with Mrs Dekker. On the contrary, I wanted to ask, and perhaps that was not entirely clear: how can we monitor a part of closed source software; how do you assess whether that is safe enough? And it has not become clear to me whether there is a supervisor who can look into the closed source; closed source is closed source. Or is the private party obliged to deliver the source code to an authority, a supervisor? That's what I'd be there for. But still, all I wanted to say is that open source is not a cure for everything. We saw that at Log4j. That's what the whole community's been looking at, until it got through: hey, there's something about that. So we have to be careful that that doesn't come across as some kind of guarantee. However, we would prefer to have transparency on the basis of the publication of source code, or at least the essential part. And that also needs to be monitored, as with closed source, but I wonder how you can do that with closed source.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mrs. Dekker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u60	Well, then we're partly in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bouchallichh, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This contribution is partly on behalf of the Labour Party. The government must be there for everyone, physically and digitally - literally and figuratively. As far as we are concerned, this is also the subject of the digital government. We are concerned about the lack of attention to accessibility in this law. There are more than 2.5 million low-lettered people in the Netherlands, and 6% of Dutch over 12 years of age have never used the Internet. It is very important that all public services are available to all, including for these groups. Systems are now too often built with a certain prototype as a user. In reality, there is not one standard person who uses these systems. These users are diverse in their knowledge and skills of computers and systems. Therefore, these systems must be built with an inclusive design. For example, give people the choice to do both digital and physical business with the government. I am thinking here of parents of multiple disabled children who do not have a choice to do digital business for their child, because only the child himself can empower his parents. Or I am also thinking of the covid vaccination strategy, where in theory it was possible to make an appointment by telephone, but the waiting times were immense. Then came the QR code, for which you had to have a smartphone, and be useful with your DigiD. Once again, it was theoretically possible to print a QR code, but without digital skills it was an unreasonablely burdensome process. The result was that many low-literate and elderly people were still unable to participate in society. Mr. Chairman. These examples may go a little further than this particular law, but they are to indicate that a large group in society is ultimately affected by all our choices here. We have to keep an eye on that. That is why I ask the Secretary of State how she looks back on these specific cases. How can this be prevented from happening again, in this law and in the considerations that are being made for future legislation? Mr. Chairman. The right to choose between digital and non-digital services should be much better guaranteed, also specifically in this law. The explanatory memorandum states: "Citizens may continue to log in for existing services with their trusted DigiD, or, if they wish, take services from the public authorities by paper means, unless otherwise provided for in sectoral legislation." The emphasis in this quotation is mainly on the word "still." Because that's what I'm really worried about. It is essential that analogue ways of communicating with the government are guaranteed at all times. The law would be stronger without "still" and with an explicit guarantee of this right. Digital skills must be positively promoted by the public authorities. It must not be a requirement to be able to communicate with the government. Moreover, legislation should be explicit and precise, without using words such as "still" for something as important as the provision of public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Rajkowski, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u64	I'm just looking, because I agree with GroenLinks on the substance and the PvdA on the subject, we've also had a number of debates on it, but I don't really see what this has to do with the novelle. When I look at our time and all the debates we have, I think this is out of order. Or do I misunderstand? Does this have to do with open source, a ban on trade or privacy by design?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u65	I also pointed out in my intro that there are some examples that go further, but as far as we are concerned this is a point that needs to be discussed constantly. That is why the choice to allow it to come back, also because this aspect has not been sufficiently taken into account in the explanatory statement as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u66	Only, whether you're in favour or against, the House of Representatives has already voted on the law. The First Chamber said that the novelle, the law, in the Lower House still had to be adapted on three points. That's what we're talking about right now. I like to have hours of debates on this subject. When it comes to accessibility, it is important that everyone is not only obliged to use digital means, but also that the desk function, paper and telephone remain available. But that is what I would like to do in a debate that is about. Otherwise, we're gonna talk past each other here, too. That would be a shame to deal with these three important points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u67	I'm listening to what Mrs Rajkowski says. I will take it with me, but we have made an explicit choice to bring it up again, precisely in order to underline its importance. Then I'll continue with open source. Maybe I'll make Mrs Rajkowski happy. Or maybe not, because I don't entirely agree with her. I'm a little more along the lines of D66's colleague. We are also pleased with the focus on open source. It is the starting point and not the exception, as far as we are concerned. Like D66, we also wonder how exactly the principle of "yes, unless" is maintained. How is it assessed whether these principles of open source have rightly been deviated from? Finally, Chairman, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I bring that up more often, precisely because they play such an important role. The law amends that the privacy-by-design principle is applied in the case of logins and that the Dutch Data Protection Authority monitors this. My group is asking how it is ensured that the AP is adequately equipped for this purpose. Are there sufficient resources? How is the role of this important body guaranteed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Bontenbal, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to turn my attention immediately, because I would like to begin by congratulating the chairman on her birthday. I think there's nothing more fun than having a debate on the Digital Government Act on your birthday, especially with this committee. Mr. Chairman. The Digital Government Act regulates that electronic services by municipalities, implementation organisations such as UWV, SVB and the Tax Administration and organisations such as health and education institutions are safe and reliable. Specifically, these are safe and reliable means of logging in. This is very important in terms of access to patient data and the application for a permit, benefit or supplement. The law provides that public and private parties providing logging resources may only process personal data in order to allow secure logging in and that any other use of personal data, such as the trading of personal data or the logging in behaviour, is excluded. It is important to note that this law does not oblige citizens to do digital business with the government, but gives citizens and businesses the right to do digital business with the government. This is then done safely, reliably and user-friendly. Citizens can then opt for public logins, such as DigiD, or private, i.e. market-based logins. Public authorities have a duty to accept authorised logging resources, provided that they meet strict admission requirements. There has already been a detailed examination of this bill. The reason we are talking about it again today is the novelle that is the result of the debate on the bill in the First Chamber. The draft law before us makes three improvements, namely in the areas of privacy by design, the ban on trade in personal data and the better development of the concept of "open source." My group has six questions. The first question is the following. The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal states: "When assessing the application for recognition, the current state of the art is leading: it is considered whether the design according to the state of the art and other reasonably available possibilities provides sufficient data protection at the time of application." Further on, it says: "The proposed amendment to the seventh paragraph of Article 9 provides that an approval may be amended, suspended or withdrawn if the design of an identifier or the enabling service does not (longer) comply with the state of the art and other reasonably available data protection options. A holder of an approval shall be deemed to implement any new techniques and processes and apply for a modification of the recognition for that purpose. If this is not the case, the approval may be withdrawn." The question then is, of course, how it will be maintained. Will there still be regular checks on whether services still comply with the current state of the art? So what's this gonna look like in practice? The second point is the following. The starting point of the law is "open source, unless." Where open source software can reasonably be used, it should be used. Where this open source software is not available, it shall be weighted as to whether it is reasonable to disclose the source code of the developed solution. The CDA Group wonders whether too much control over the use of open source software can also have an opposite effect, namely that new providers can have too easy access to the software needed to create the login resources. Doesn't this development also attract all kinds of shady providers with all the vulnerabilities that this entails? My third question is this. The Council of State and the Minister differ on an important point of view. In short, the Minister believes that technology independence should be guaranteed in the law and therefore only the functional requirements of the generic digital infrastructure should be adequately described in the law and the technology-dependent effect should be left to lower regulation. But the Council of State believes that the law should contain key elements of the regulation because otherwise the law becomes too abstract and too vague and it is no longer clear what we as a Chamber are now agreeing to. I have to quote one sentence from the reaction of the venerable Council of State, and Mrs Leijten has already done so: 'The law must call man and horse and not leave it with a general indication that mammals are involved'. The Minister replicates this: "The naming of concepts such as DigiD or MyGovernment in law does not lead to a better framing of the provisions. On the contrary, by not naming these concepts, the law itself must describe the function of these provisions, which guarantees a greater guarantee for the maintenance of such a function." Can the Minister explain again why it ignores this point in the opinion of the Council of State? I believe that this is one of the major points of the debate: why include it in the law or not? The Council of State is critical of this. So I think it would be a good idea to explain that again. The fourth point. The CDA Group raised the question of the possibilities for the Minister to refuse, in the interests of national security or other risks related to privacy or cybersecurity, new providers or to deprive them of the accreditation they have previously received. My group would like to ask this question again, in the light of the rapidly changing world situation. For too long, we have been naive in, for example, our dependence on energy and raw materials from Russia and China. We are right to refer again to the need for strategic autonomy. In this context, should we not also ask which companies we would like to exclude from providing this kind of digital service? Point five. As mentioned above, the Digital Government Act does not oblige citizens to do business with the government along the digital road. My group would like to continue to stress the need for public authorities to remain open to everyone in society. Sorry, Mrs Rajkowski, I'm making this point too. It may be somewhat out of order, but I will finish this point. Human contact and human measure must always be possible, especially for vulnerable people or people with disabilities. How does the Minister ensure that this is always possible? My colleague, Mr Van der Molen, tabled an amendment at the time to also focus the proposed review of the law on less digital literate people, so that we can see if people are excluded. Finally, my sixth point. For companies, there is currently no public means of logging in as there is for citizens. I quote the Secretary of State for the Interior from the previous cabinet period, who said: "In the position on the role of the government, there seems to be a shift in this Chamber, but also beyond, as indicated by the Cyber Security Council, for example. Safe logging in is increasingly seen as a useful function, and the government is expected to play a greater role in all social movements." So that's a quote from the previous Secretary of State for the Interior. My question is: how does this minister view these statements? For example, should there also be a public login for companies? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u70	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Van Weerdenburg, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u71	I feel a little called upon to join Mr Bontenbal's plea that there should always be a non-digital route to the government. I did not mention that in my contribution, because I focused on the law before me, but in the previous legal treatment we did with this committee in this Chamber, the PVV made a very big plea for it. Then the CDA wasn't there, so that's why I'm adding it now. My question to Mr Bontenbal is how he interprets the open source requirement in this law. The argument is sometimes that there is no open source alternative available. Look, a company, a private party, can of course just have a source code created and then publish it. If you publish it, if it's obvious to everyone, if it's on the Internet, is it open source in Mr. Bontenbal's eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u72	Perhaps a preliminary remark: I think it is already a successful debate. I think it is nice to see that a number of colleagues have been very well introduced into this matter. I've only been a spokesperson on this file for a few months. I am very much inclined to the point made by Mr Rajkowski: that it does not matter so much whether something is open source or closed source, but that security is the most important thing. I also think there's something to be said for both. Closed source also ensures that professional companies keep their own products in order according to the latest state of the art. Then the follow-up question is: how do you ensure that transparency? Then I'll get to your point. I think it's very good that those kind of source codes are open. The question is at what level. Does that have to be completely written out so that competitors can see what's in it? I don't know. I would also like to ask the Minister. But if you do, I agree with you that you should also look at a way to give up some copyright, so that other companies do not get along with the software that companies have developed with a lot of energy and difficulty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u73	Obviously. For the CDA, therefore, this would be preferable to closed source.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u74	Yes, but I find the law and the accompanying text on that point too much pushing Mrs Rajkowski too much towards open source, as if that were some kind of holy grail. I don't believe that. I think there should be a level playing field. I have also learned a lot from your contribution, in which you explained exactly that many pieces of software contain all kinds of small pieces of software, which are also used by open source. So I don't think it's very easy to cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u75	Was Mr Bontenbal finished with his contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u77	Then I actually have the same question to Mr Bontenbal as I had to Mrs Rajkowski. We have dealt with a law in the Lower House for which a majority voted, including the CDA, but it could not pass the test of criticism of the Upper Chamber; it would have been voted off there if no novelle had come. Does the CDA Group really think that there has been a real improvement in the three areas where improvements should be made, especially in the light of the Council of State's critical prose?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u78	A bit of a faint answer from me might be: I wait for the answers first. But I'm not gonna say that. I am genuinely curious about the most important point: what does the cabinet do with the opinion of the Council of State? I just don't have a good answer to that. For my judgment, I will listen to that very carefully. About the First Chamber: it only shows how important the First Chamber is and how important it is not to make the First Chamber too much politics, but simply to make it look at how good and solid legislative proposals are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u79	I also hope that they will look at the other two legislative proposals passed by the Lower House with a majority, while we saw fundamental objections, especially given what we have learned in recent years: how do we make profiles, how do we share data? Think of the story of Myrthe, who couldn't get a subscription to the NS because of someone else's data. We should have that debate sooner. But let's get back to our legislative task. The Secretary of State has already had the opportunity to respond, initially to the opinion of the Council of State, then to the note following the report, the written preparation. I hear here that Mr Bontenbal has not yet had a convincing answer. The SP is that with him, by the way, when it comes to recording those so-called technology-independent parts, of which the Council of State says: beware of Lower House, because there are political choices that you must also consider. If that doesn't change today, is that essential for the CDA Group? Or is it: this is on track, this train has to run, so do we agree with a heavy heart?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mrs Leijten has been in this Chamber for many years and I have noticed that she has mastered all rhetorical tricks in this kind of debate. One of them is that you ask these kinds of questions and then you get to the bottom of the consequences: if you are for or against, what are you going to do as a group? I'm just waiting for the answers. I'm gonna listen carefully to what the Minister says and then I'm gonna weigh up what my group's gonna do. Luckily, I am not alone in the group; my group probably thinks it is a good idea. It is good practice in our group to weigh this kind of discussion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u81	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u82	But where are we? That's kind of what it is. Is this essential? Does this have to change? Otherwise, can we make an amendment to it? I think it is very difficult for us Members of Parliament to amend those technical-independent things. But in fact we are both asking to be clearer about that, so not to talk about mammals, but about men and horses or about women and fish. Oh, that's not a mammal. There I go with my rhetorical tricks. But I would like to know from the CDA whether that is essential. This is also important to the Secretary of State. Then she knows if she still has to go to jail to convince the Lower House, before she may be able to shoot again in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u83	Predicting someone's gonna be shooting, I wouldn't. I'm just gonna wait and see the Minister's answers. I just think that's nice. I think we are both asking the same basic questions. If that is not a good answer, then it is up to me to consider whether I am torpedoing such a bill for it, yes or no, or whether I see enough good to allow it to continue. I just haven't made that decision yet. I have asked six questions and all kinds of answers are possible. I may get very good answers to five questions and not to one, but I think that's good enough to go through with it. It may be that I don't think it's enough and you'll hear it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bontenball. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that she needs about 20 minutes to prepare herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u85	The next item is the follow-up to the Digital Government Act. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can discuss this law, or rather, the novelle by this law, here today. Because this bill has a long history. It's a law with a pretty broad name: digital government. It was rightly pointed out by some of your members that this law is mainly about safe and reliable logging in, doing business with the government, secure and reliable websites. I think it is important to keep that in mind when we deal with this law. This bill makes it possible to deal effectively, safely and openly with the government in the digital sense, and above all, of course, to ensure that people's rights and needs are central, as we also wrote in the main letter on digitalisation. Protecting personal data well, the ability to provide help when people get into trouble, the proper application of standards on government websites and, of course, also provide standards for people with disabilities. Fortunately, we have recently been able to amend this law on the basis of the latest insights. That was also necessary, because the dependency of the digital government is increasing. Then it is also extremely important that we work together, not only to ensure safe and reliable logging in, but also to ensure that we do so in a way that works for the people and the companies that need to use it. Your Chamber has raised a number of issues at the heart of the novelle in the previous debates, but certainly also today. I think it is right that we should start answering the questions you asked about the novelle. I will not make the general introduction to this law too long, but I will reply to the questions asked. I want to do that in a few parts, starting with the novelle in general. Then on the subject of open source, on which you have asked a lot of questions, then on the subject of the prohibition of trade in data. A little bit more about the questions that have been asked about the law in general, so not so much the novelle, but the law in general. Then there are the general measures of governance that have been put forward. Then there is the issue of government organisations, private means of logging in and the issue of inclusion. The latter are a few smaller subjects. I want to start with the novelle in general. An important question was asked about the relationship between the Council of State's report and the novelle. Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz of D66 asked how this novelle now fits in with the report of the Council of State. That report calls for the citizen to be put at the centre and for good guarantees to be provided. That is, of course, incredibly important. In particular, it recommends ensuring good and reliable data protection. The novelle has already been submitted before the Council of State report was published, but it is in line with it. The substantive considerations correspond to the considerations made in the Wdo and in the novellle. The other subjects of the Council of State report we are talking about here is the Council of State's report on digitisation in general, which is reflected in my work programme on digitisation. It is important to discuss this with you at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u87	A question from Mrs Leijten, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr. Chairman. We asked for a response to that report. That was in the fall. We've been sending out repeats, memories as it's called. And now the Secretary of State says: shall I return to that in my work programme? No, we want a response to that report! Point-by-point. This includes a great deal of advice on our legislative task, our supervisory task and our supervisory task. This should not be done in a work programme of countries with a reference to'so I am filling in that report'. We simply want a response to that report from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u89	That is absolutely my intention. The idea is that we will have a work programme before the summer, after having had a debate on the main letter on digitisation. I will make sure that there is a separate annex in which we respond to that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u90	I don't understand why the Secretary of State is doing this on a temporary basis. It is a stand-alone opinion that is widely applicable to all activities, to all members of parliament and to all directors. I would prefer not to see this as part of a work programme or as an annex. There have really been very fundamental questions asked. They are also about administrative law, for example. So I don't understand why the reaction is managed in such a way. I don't see it as anything that only belongs to this Secretary of State. I would therefore like to make the following appeal to this Secretary of State. Treat this report. Answer me. Do not wait for a major debate and a work programme. Don't make an attachment. Consider this really an independent opinion to the whole Chamber, to the whole legislature. Come up with that kind of reaction, because that's what that report requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u91	I think we are incredibly in agreement. I think this is an important report. It is, of course, intended that we should look at this not only from the Interior, but from the whole cabinet. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to write a reaction like this. I particularly hope that we can send that reaction to your Chamber as soon as possible. I would like to move on to the issues of open source. That is an important theme. Many of you have asked questions about this. It is, of course, a subject of the novelle. Mrs Leijten of the SP asked: can you explain how you would like to see open source in this context? I'd like to walk you through that. The core is that open source software is the source code of which is publicly available. It is also software that allows users and others to control what the software looks like, how it works, whether it is reliable and safe and whether you can improve on it. We believe that open source is not just about public access, but that there is also a community of people working around the public software to see whether it works in a good way and whether there are opportunities to improve it. Transparency and the community make it possible to create better credentials based on that software. The bill regulates that open source software should be used for certain parts of the login. This involves different building blocks. That's what Mr. Bontenbal and Mrs. Van Weerdenburg said. The core of the software is disclosure. A community helps to ensure that the codes are constantly improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u92	If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says that it is not enough for a private party to write a whole new product and publish the implementation section on GitHub. Then there is no community yet. If that's the case, how much time does it have to go over? If it's on the Internet, anyone can look at it. At the CoronaMelder the code was also published one or two days earlier than the app went online.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u93	So the core is that we say that there are two elements that are important in the open source. The first element is the fact that the source codes are public. The second element is that there is a community that is looking at how the source code can be improved over and over again. It concerns, for example, safety holes and other themes. The question is: how can they be improved? That combination is important. But then I'm gonna move on. We need to determine the means of login that we want to allow. We think open source is important, because it helps to create better software, create better programs and in this case make better login resources. However, it is important that we look at this issue, which is why we call it "growing towards it', which at the moment not all the means of logging in could already comply with it or already comply with it. For example, DigiD is not yet fully open source. It is a login that we use and that we label as safe, but it is not fully open source. So we want to make sure that the credentials that private or public parties use and that we want to allow in our system are ideally based on 100% open source. At the moment we see that they are not 100% deliverable. We want to be advised on what is minimally necessary and how we ensure that we grow there. We want to grow to those requirements in a responsible way. You asked a number of questions; I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u94	Let's take the DigiD as an example. I understand that the product is designed in such a way that it takes some time to differentiate in terms of source code what is part of the security section. I'm just saying that it's very plastic. I'm just trying to untangle the code to see which part can be published. Is that what this is about? It seems useful to me to give existing providers a transitional period for this, but you do not have to take account of new providers. You can say: welcome new providers, all fine, but be prepared that you are meant to publish the code?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u95	That's exactly what we want. So we are talking about the existing ones, but also about the new ones. Again, it's not just about the publication. We also need to ensure that there is a community that can ensure that it gets better. We need to shape both in a good way, because it is both relevant to ensure that the login is constantly improving on the basis that there are people who are constantly working on it. Moreover, transparency itself also allows us to check whether the system is really safe and meets our requirements. How exactly we want to do that, you have asked a number of questions about this, and we do not have any sharpness at this point in time, but we want to make that clear and publish it in the ministerial regulation. The final goal is very clear: to grow to 100% open source. But in the meantime, we could live with parts that aren't quite there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u96	Can the Secretary of State say how she sees the community? A software developer may have 50 programmers who are constantly keeping, improving and developing the product. Is that community enough? We're talking about stuff that's been published here. Or should they be volunteers at GitLab, GitHub or... What is that community?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u97	We need to define this focus. Let's advise ourselves on that, too. The intention is, of course, that it is feasible anyway, that it is possible, and that we have the idea that we actually have a community that makes sense. I want to determine the exact size of it, how wide it should be, and whether it should be people of one organisation or whether we need more, in order to improve the definition of open source. That is what this is all about; it is all a means of achieving an objective which is to ensure that the resources meet the requirements we set. They must be safe and transparent, and people's data must not be allowed to happen that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u98	The hallmark of a community is that it doesn't necessarily follow the rules we set about what a community should look like. A community is flexible, fluid and can consist of volunteers. They don't have much to do with developers who spend their free time controlling systems. They are not very concerned about whether we think they should or not, and rightly so, because that community works in a very different way. The VVD is actually a little more concerned about the following. We just heard the Secretary of State say we're gonna look at open source solutions first, and then we're gonna see what's safe. That's exactly the point from my input that's about blind staring. If you're just going to look at techniques, you can just ignore a much safer option. Instead of just looking at techniques, you can look at principles: it has to be safe. I understand that there's a pretty good chance that an open source system might be safe. But let's not forget that we're now in some kind of hype that doesn't include closed source. We must avoid standing here again in so many years' time and have to conclude: it hasn't really worked, so now we're going back to closed source for one hundred percent. It's got to be tech-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u99	The core of course is that it must be safe and reliable, no matter how you turn it or turn it. We know that in open source it is often better to detect, because it is visible whether it is safe and reliable. Let me say again: we want to be properly advised whether there are parts of a login that are not yet open source, whatever the reason, and whether that should be allowed. Because, of course, we want to ensure that we do indeed have those credentials and that there are also parties that they can provide. We want to make sure that it is possible to do so and that it is safe. It must be safe, reliable, transparent, etc., on the basis of the requirements we lay down with each other. You're talking about that community. What kind of demands do you make? Of course, a community has to form itself. And the communities will also be fluid. But we can of course say that we find a community of one perhaps a little little little. So the main thing is that we can also indicate some things about this. I say again: we want to be advised on this, too, in a good way. How can you ensure that such a community has a certain form, or meets some sort of minimum requirements, so that you can also say that the community exists well? I also hear very well your plea saying that you should not throw the child away with the bath water. If we are going to work out this ministerial arrangement and we are going to have to grow towards something, I will make sure that we also make the right demands on the subject of the closed source codes, if that helps to ensure that we actually have a system that is good, transparent and safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u100	This reassures my group, so that is nice. But I'll come back to that community anyway. There's a snapshot and a check. And if it's right, products, systems, software the government uses, often decades, maybe with some adjustments here and there. It is not our intention to impose new systems and new apps on the Netherlands every year. During such a journey, such a community can change just like that, so it no longer meets that check. What's that gonna look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u101	Once again, we need to work on that with each other. It is, of course, important that we continue to evaluate whether such a means of login meets the requirements, because there are indeed developing techniques and developing requirements in relation to the provision of services. For example, one may want to have the opportunity to log in to other organisations, or one may want to do something else because there are new ideas about safety. So I think we should also take a good look at how we keep checking regularly that it is still satisfactory. Because what if one day DigiD doesn't do her job properly? I hope it doesn't happen to make sure the systems stay safe. Then, of course, you will not want to continue to allow such a cure, because then it is simply not a safe means anymore. That may be the case for a number of reasons. So, as far as I am concerned, it is still necessary to keep a very close eye on these logging devices to ensure that they continue to comply with the rules that we are aiming for with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u102	I think we have an important point to make here. How do you define a community like that? Maybe it's safer to have a company that's been developing software with a hundred men for ten years than three crafters in the attic who call themselves a community. I think it's very important that we define what a community is. And the Secretary of State does say: we want to go to 100% open source. I think that's dangerous, because she doesn't know exactly if this is gonna end well. Shouldn't you say: we create a level playing field for open source and closed source, where the conditions are the same, namely: it should be safe and it should be transparent? I doubt you should say in advance that it should go to 100% open source. If you do, you already know the answer to a development when you don't know at all how that development ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u103	It is an important point that you mention. We will continue to work to strengthen the core, the definition of the community and its requirements, in this case for the purposes of logging in. If you say that you want to opt for a level playing field for something completely closed, that is not our aim. Because we still assume that, based on all the information we have now, open source will actually help us. Because it is public, because people can follow it and we can follow it, and because there are also many more guarantees that there is actually good work to ensure that the login is always reliable and better. The desire is therefore certain to grow there............................................................................................................................................................... If there is a reason why we can never reach that 100% at all, then we will have to find it, but right now our picture is that it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u104	Maybe now I'm gonna ask a stupid question. What exactly is the difference between open source and transparency? Are you aiming for 100% open source or 100% transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u105	No, it's good to say that again. We are talking about open source software, so software that is transparent and the source codes of which have been published, but also one of those communities that makes it possible to work on improving them over and over again. That's really super important to us. So it's both sides. It is not just a question of being published, but also of constantly working, in a public community, to improve it, and above all of being able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u106	Finally, Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u107	I think this is tricky. So it has to be transparent and there has to be a community, and then it's open source. But you don't know whether those communities are going to work or whether they are actually being formed. You are aiming for 100% open source, but I believe that the objective should be 100% transparency. So don't confuse means and aim too much now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u108	No, I don't think so. The background to this is that the combination allows you to get better and safer credentials. Once again, the precise definition of what elements should be open and what such a community should look like and so on, and so on, is precisely what we want to give further form and content in the framework of a ministerial arrangement, in order to ensure that it is also clear and clear how it will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mrs Van Weerdenburg, on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u110	Yes. My colleague Bontenbal called it tricky. I'd like to back him up and call it unnecessary. When did the cabinet change the position expressed in the policy letter on releasing the source code of government software? I have here the letter of April 2020 on the "open unless" policy. It's still in effect, because I found it on the website last night. It says very clearly: "If the goal is transparency, then very often it is enough to make the source code available in a place on the Internet where a lot of source code can be found (e.g. GitLab.com). An active community of (re) users is then not necessary." This is standing policy. So when has it been decided to abandon it and mix it, mix it, with the far-reaching requirement of a community?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u111	I cannot state the exact date here, but the core point is that we consider it important that there is such a community when it comes to logging in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u112	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u113	Yeah, finally. There is no need for transparency. And that's the point. It's not about... Because that was the other thing: the community was there to improve the quality of software, with the aim of reuse. When it comes to software that is made for the government, with public money paid, then it is everyone's and then of course that is a good reasoning to follow. But here it's just really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u114	I don't agree with you. The reason for that is actually the other way around. Because only transparency would be transparency in terms of nothing else happening if, for example, there are mistakes in that source code or if things are not safe at some point. Such a community also helps to make sure that the source code still meets the requirements. As far as we are concerned, the Community is indeed important and this is a subject that belongs in it. However, it is important to work out with each other what that means in the case of these login codes and of this law, and in particular the novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u115	Do you still get it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm pretty sure she said she was confident.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u117	Well, I'm afraid to say that less confidently, I'll tell you. When I hear my colleagues on the interrupting microphone like that, we all do. It is not that we do not understand how this works, but we do not understand what is intended and what we say yes to when we adopt this bill. That brings me back to what the Council of State says about this, precisely when it comes to the delegation clause. The danger of putting in the law such abstract key elements that are no longer identifiable is that Parliament as co-legislator cannot actually imagine what it agrees with. Doesn't the Secretary of State think that's a fundamental problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u118	I think we will get a little further on that, but I do not think it is a fundamental problem. Maybe I can say a few words about the substance, and then perhaps we can talk about it a little bit more later. In the legislation on cars, for example, we do not write down the brand names of what exactly is about cars in the Netherlands. No, you describe what a car is, where it drives and where it can ride and so on. Especially in the case of legislation on technology, in this case technology that is developing very quickly, it is very important that we talk about the principles: under what conditions do we believe that people should be able to do digital business with and should be able to log in to the government? We must try to get to work on making sure that it is clear which types of, in this case, logging in may be included. We do this by constantly renewing things and making adjustments to underlying schemes. Does DigiD comply with the requirements we impose on it, and will it continue to comply with it? Are there any private credentials that meet the requirements that we impose on them? Open source is a means to this end. How do we ensure that we also work on the development of techniques that help us to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u119	The Secretary of State says so many things here that I would like to respond to. She is questioning whether DigiD will continue to exist in the future. I heard Mrs Bouchallichh say very good things about that in her first term, namely that it is careless to use that kind of subsidiary because it tends to tend towards something. But my question is, of course, another one. It's all gonna be so abstract. It is said that this will be laid down in more detail. That's in a ministerial arrangement. We are not seeing them anymore, so we do not know what we are saying yes to. Has the Secretary of State completed that ministerial arrangement yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u120	No, we haven't finished that yet. We're developing them, with people who are experts in this field. That is also very much needed to get a very clear picture of what exactly is going on when we use this open source software, which parts are important and how we deal with the community. It's about that combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u121	Okay. So we have a law here that was passed in the Lower House in January 2020. We've been here almost two and a half years. A novelle has been made, but there is no ministerial arrangement yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u122	There are also AMVBs that are in front of you, but we have not yet worked out this specific ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u123	What would be the objection to waiting for the Secretary of State to draw up the ministerial regulation before we deal with this bill further?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u124	There is a big objection if we wait for this law to be implemented. This law makes it possible, for example, for people who work in care to log in with DigiD. Rest assured: it is not a matter of DigiD disappearing. I will not mention the example anymore either. But of course, DigiD, like any other means of login, will continue to meet the highest demands. I think we can agree on this. But the essence is that if we do not do this, the care workers, who cannot now exchange information about patients in a safe way, will not be able to do so. That is one of the important reasons for working on this law. And with that, we can continue working on all kinds of logging devices that are already there, like DigiD, so that we can use them in a broader context than we do today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u125	So patient data isn't being safely exchanged right now. Another piece of news in this debate that is about to explode! - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. That's what real laws have been made about, and they've been killed in the First Chamber. That was about the patient's electronic file. That's what just went on, we know. But apparently it's unsafe and this law is going to fix it. I don't see the connection, to be honest. I think this is becoming a technical problem. The Secretary of State here gives the meeting a definition of what it means by open source. That's part of the community. There's a discussion about that. To be perfectly honest, I can't even judge where I stand in that discussion. But we will have to say yes or no to this law, in which everything will be regulated out of our sight. I find that really problematic. It's too abstract, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u126	I am well aware that this debate is about something that sounds small, namely'safely login to the government', but at the same time it is complex because of the technique behind it. At the same time, we need to work together to settle this, because if we don't settle this, we won't be able to do that incredible amount of things we want to do with the government in a safe way. We have not only established that it should be possible to do business offline with the government, but also, above all, that it can be done online, digitally. A lot of people want that, too. And we want to make sure that happens in a safe, reliable and good way. That's what this law is about specifically. So I think it is extremely important that we talk about this. This is also about technology. This is also about issues that are complicated. That is also one of the reasons why you had a technical briefing prior to this debate. That's to dive in and get together to focus on what we need to make sure this happens in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u127	You still have a number of questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u128	I've got a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u129	I mean on the subject of open source.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u130	Yeah, on the subject of open source.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u131	First, I'd like to give the Secretary of State a chance to finish the subject of open source. Then there is the possibility of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u132	Then I go to the PVV's question about how to check if the source code is not visible. Publicity of the source code can help with controllability. In other words, it makes it possible. But there are also other means of control. The authorisation may also be checked on the basis of requirements. Monitoring is already under way, but open source can do so in a better and therefore more transparent way. Mrs Leijten of the SP asked whether parties were required to move towards the use of open source. Yes, that movement is being wagered. That is also what is intended to happen. We are doing this mainly to ensure that resources become extra safe. We also want, of course, to increase resources so that citizens can log in safely. So under this bill, which parts should be open source will be identified. On the basis of this ministerial arrangement, we are going to develop it further. Then there is Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz' question as to whether a minimum amount of open source will be required and how it will work. We will indicate which parts should be open source. The application function and the login function are examples of this. In pointing that out, we take security and continuity into account. So it's not a percentage; it's much more about functionality. In the text of the AMvB that is now before us, we can clarify that. We will continue to work that out in the ministerial arrangement. Then there is Mrs Dekker's question: a real ambition would be 'open source, unless'; it does not say that now, why is that? But the essence is that I indicated at the beginning of the answer that we do not think it is justified to go 100% to open source, because it has unacceptable consequences for the logging devices we use today, for example the DigiD and e-recognition. I think it is important that private parties should also be treated equally. So we need to make sure that we do not introduce that obligation until we can do so 100%. But it is our strong desire to grow there. So we want to start sketching the transition path in the coming period. Then there was the question: isn't the obligation of open source a means to keep big tech out of the door? So I think it is important to use open source. That obligation is there, but not a full one, because there are also means that cannot yet be met, but we have to go through that transition. A full obligation to use open source can therefore not at the moment, and a controlled transition is of course important. Once again, we are giving good advice on this, so that we are also able to shape it in the coming period. And, of course, larger companies, including big tech, can also sign up as a party, but they can only grow into it if that means that they also participate in the open source policy. Then it was about how the open source requirement in this law relates to the Open Government Act; are open source providers not obstructed by this system? The answer is: source code already fell under the Wob. New in the Woo is also its active disclosure. As with other topics or documents, this source code can only be made public if it is available to the public authorities and if it does not constitute a barrier to safety requirements and copyright. The Wdo, so this Digital Government Act, specifically determines for login services which parts should be made public. Then there is the question of how you control the extent to which open source has been used. I just said something about that. It concerns the most essential parts of the logging devices. We're gonna describe it, too. And of course it is also important that these are parts that have to do with the application or the login function for example. We are being well supported to ensure that we can do so in the right way. Then there is the question of the PVV about who assesses whether sufficient use has been made of open source. Well, I have indicated that we have experts watching it, to ensure that open source is used wherever possible. We will continue to make that inventory of which parts it is about, and we will also see how we can shape the transition from the current situation to open source, with the bar also getting higher and higher. Then the question of whether open source is safe, following the questions that have been asked about Log4j among others. The core is that open source has many benefits, including in terms of security and transparency. Those benefits don't go by themselves. And the fact that there are also examples that things are not always 100% good means that we want to grow controlled towards open source, so that support and security are also well secured. Then there was the question of Mrs Rajkowski's VVD: how do I deal with the various open source parts in one medium? I think I have already said a little more about that in the answers. So the tool can use different components, on types of software that are related, also operating systems and supporting software. Why it goes, is that we make those essential parts clear, those essential parts of the source code. Once again, we are advised to make sure that this application function or login function is properly made open source, and that they are available and can be used safely. Then I come to the last question on the subject of open source, by Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Is publishing the source code of the core of the login agent sufficient to meet the open source requirements? The publication of that source code is sufficient. Therefore, the main issue at stake here is transparency. You need to make sure that that source code is public and that those parties and communities are able to work on it and improve it. Other conditions apply to some open source licences, but the issue of transparency does not necessarily play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you. There are questions from Mrs Van Weerdenburg and then Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mrs Leijten had raised some concerns here a while ago, which I actually share. I do not want to delay this Wdo at all and not everything needs to be regulated in the framework law, but the whole idea of this debate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If we do not get any clarity about the most basic concepts or hear something that is not right in our eyes, then my unrest also grows to say yes on this novelle, with delay as a result. I'm gonna try one more time with my question about open source. With a private party that writes software and has good developers, the company's reputation is also at stake if you require them to publish that code. The competitors are all watching and are going to go to great lengths to identify the errors in the code. There's some sort of accountability there. You don't have that if they're gonna use pieces of open source that, as Mr. Bontenbal called it, hobbyists are watching in an attic room. Suppose they make a mistake and change the code in such a way that there appears to be a huge vulnerability, then it is: yes, too bad, too bad. They are then not responsible, not accountable, while the company does have damage. I don't see how that model guarantees more security than the idea that your reputation as a software developer is at stake, or perhaps your admission. Your own people look at it and the competitors look at it, so just publish it! I do not see why a community of volunteers, however large they may be, guarantees more security than that other model.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u135	There's always someone who provides that login. That provider is responsible for that login doing what we think it should do, that it is safe, and so on. That provider uses software or building blocks from software that we say would be good that they are open source. We are assuming the principle that there are better elements in it. This does not mean that the provider of this software should already be 100% open source, because this is not possible in all cases. We are going to look carefully at which elements can and cannot do that. But of course, you always want to describe more clearly what we mean by having a community like this clear what we are okay with when it comes to the combination of those two things. The same applies to the publication. By the way, if someone develops something while competitors are watching and critical of it, it may only lead to improvement. But the bottom line is that the provider has to make sure it's in order. We'll check that out. We would like open source because it helps to improve it. This also fits in with the current way of working. But we do assume that there is a need for a combination of publication and transparency as well as a community around it. And again, we're going to work this out even further to get it sharp. But it's not like someone who develops software can't participate. However, we would like the open source to happen and to be transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u136	So, let me get this straight, a software developer who's been working on a big company for 20 years and hundreds of programmers, designing a product and then publishing the code, isn't enough. But when they publish the code and throw that part on GitLab at the same time, suddenly there is a community and admission is allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u137	How exactly we shape that, so where that community should be and how it works, we're gonna work out with each other. But the core of this open source idea is that there is indeed a community watching this product.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u138	First, I'd like to disprove the image of three people in the attic as a community. Linux, on which the Android system is based, has also been open source. The creators were certainly not three people in the attic. But now I have two questions for the Secretary of State. I hear the Secretary of State say that we do not want to demand 100% open source because we cannot now. That is reasoning from the current offer and of course we do not know what the technique will bring. But "open source, unless" doesn't mean that you demand 100% open source, but that you actually want it as much as possible. It's more of a principle: it's open source, unless you explain, for example, that it can't. So how does the Secretary of State view that? And my second question is, who's going to judge if it's enough? Did I hear the Secretary of State say that's what experts do? My question is: isn't it the regulator, Agency Telecom?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u139	When I talk about the experts who are helping us, it is about shaping that arrangement. It's a good thing you put it that way. The core is indeed: it is open, unless. So basically it's open source, but if it can't, it doesn't work. We see that it is not quite possible at the moment, but we want to grow there. The second is that the regulator should indeed look at that in the end. But the formulation of the requirements is, of course, something we have to do from the Ministry. Above all, we want to be well supported by those who are experts in this area, so that we also make the right choices and deal with this requirement in the right way. The aim and objective are to ensure that the means of logging in are safe and sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u140	That's kind of nice to know. So experts are going to look into that so that we have a good ministerial arrangement. That's kind of nice. I'm going back to that "open source, unless." We cannot meet that now. The danger of reasoning from now on is that by definition you will not be able to look to the future. So I don't really have a question, but I think it's a little worrying: "We can't meet it now, so we're not going to demand it." Then you end up in such a vicious circle that you can never demand it, because you can't meet it now, but maybe in ten years' time you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u141	If you demand in the law that it should always be, that it should be 100%, and it cannot be done now, you will not meet the demand today. Then you should stop the DigiD. We want to avoid that, of course. But at the same time, the importance and purpose of course are that we continue to open source and that we continue to do so. It is incredibly important that we use that as well. Once again, we believe that this is important not only for the present but also for the future. We're gonna work that out and we're gonna take people to see how we can shape that, including what the content and form of such a community should be. Then I'll move on to the point of the ban on trade. That is another subject on which questions have been asked. Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked: is publishing the source code of the core of the login enough? Sorry, this is still about open source. I'm not looking at the right questions. We had a different set of questions in the marketing ban. I'm having a bad time organizing it myself, I see, because I put it in the wrong folder. Sorry about that! The ban on trafficking. A question from Mrs Leijten: what can and should not be done by private and commercial providers with the data they collect on the basis of these credentials? Mrs Leijten mentioned an example. A private party operating a login or, rather, providing such a login would be able to use the data of individuals for commercial purposes. That is expressly not the case. The parties shall not be able to trade that information. They can also not use them for purposes other than those for which they are intended, namely for the login agent itself. That minimal use is regulated by our law. It is really very important that that happens so that the things you are talking about cannot happen. Private parties that provide a login should not be able to do anything with the data other than use them for logging in. Mrs Rajkowski also asked whether these data could not be used for any commercial purpose. The answer is: no, they cannot be used for any commercial purpose, not for selling, not for advertising, not for other things. The regulator that monitors this is the Telecom Agency. Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz asked whether metadata was also covered by the ban on trade. That's right. They're also included. Both SP and D66 asked if the ban on trade is strong enough. My image is that it is. The First Chamber has asked me to carry this out in Europe. I'll be sure to. The law states that data may only be used to allow login. In the novelle it is once more regulated that parties should not earn from the data. Moreover, the data on the user and the use must be stored separately. This is also monitored by the Telecom Agency. In my view, I have had the points about the ban on trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u142	Is it useful to look now at Mrs Leijten's amendment? Or do you want to do that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u143	I'd be happy to do that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u144	Then we'll go to Mrs. Leijten's.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u145	The Secretary of State thinks it's sufficiently arranged. The SP Group does not agree with that. In the note following the report, the State Secretary wrote that it was not within its competence or scope to further limit it. Where did that state-law idea come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u146	I'm not sure I understand you exactly. But what we have arranged with this is that there is no possibility of trading the data or using it for any other purpose than just logging in. By doing so, we arrange for this application that nothing else can be done with that data by the parties but provide a login option. There is no possibility for any commercial application.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u147	I went, because I had doubts about this, to the excellent lawyers of our Bureau of Legislation who say: it can certainly be sharper in the law. The Council of State also pointed this out. That has led to my amendment. The Secretary of State doesn't go into that right now, but I think that's a game. Saying you don't want to, doesn't mean you won't. What kind of a private provider is the interesting thing about identification with the government? This is about dates, namely: the lady or the gentleman is doing business with that public authority and perhaps about that content. That's information they get, because the government wants to communicate digitally with its residents or the other way around. So they're gonna do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u148	I would, of course, like to go further into your amendment, because if it is not properly arranged, we need to make it more specific. But the essence is that these parties can do nothing with that data other than the purpose for which it is intended. They can't use that data to develop commercial activities. That's not what we want and not what we want, whether it's about advertising or reselling in another way. That's exactly what's so important in this law. If you log in with your DigiD that happens to be a public means of communication or with a private means or with a foreign means, that data should not be used for any purpose other than logging in and facilitating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u149	Then you should actually go even further than I did in my amendment. Then you should say that those data should be deleted, because then you won't be able to use them anymore. If they can't be used for anything else, why would you keep them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u150	Actually, there's only one reason you'd like to keep the login data. If someone loses their phone or laptop, you can still log in that there has been a login, for example at an instance like UWV or the municipality. You want to be able to keep that. You don't want to be able to keep other types of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u151	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u152	But that's not what the law rules either. You register that Mr. Bontenbal has logged in to UWV. Fortunately, he doesn't have to be there in Rotterdam, the municipality where he lives and the fact that he logged in there, we keep, but not for what or what time. It is not arranged for the other data to be erased. It is argued that it should not be used commercially, because it is not the point of view of the law. But it's just not settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u153	I have just been asked about this particular issue at the moment. I'd like to return to that in second term. The essence of what we want to regulate is exactly what Mrs Leijten means: to ensure that those data of what Mr Bontenbal has done in this example at UWV are indeed not kept, but the fact that he has logged in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u154	I was curious to know exactly how that control goes on a new means that demands permission. How exactly is it controlled that the programme does not do what we are not allowed to do here? Will the description of the product be looked at? This could also be close source software. Or should such a private party hand over the entire source code and then there will be a software developer who will carefully search the code to see if there is a link or something like that in it, because software can be quite sophisticated. Is that how specific it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u155	I think it is true that we want to write down the precise steps that are in it, but the essence is that it has to be so specific. It really has to be proven that these data are not used in any other way. Once again, the monitoring of this is extremely important, because we want someone who has access to this data in any way to be unable to do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u156	Is that expertise there? And if so, where is it? How's the Secretary of State gonna put them on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u157	We're gonna have to hire that expertise. In doing so, of course, the current regulators, for example the Telecom Agency, must make use of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mrs. Dekker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u159	It is nice to hear that the metadata is also part of this legislation, or Mr Bontenbal is logged in and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u160	It is a lot about Mr Bontenball.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u161	Yes. Okay, I'm gonna keep going. It is about commercial activities and that they should be excluded. But in the digital world you see very often the following: we use your data to improve our services. Is that also excluded in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'm gonna find out for you. But if that were possible, we should only do so if it is intended precisely for that purpose and not for other commercial activities. I would like to return to that in the second term. Then I'll go to the questions about the law in general. There were also a number of questions about this. I would like to look at the questions raised by Mrs Leijten about human intervention in decisions. That's a subject we've discussed before. In the application of any kind of algorithms or digitisation, it is incredibly important that human intervention is involved. This bill is, of course, not about that, but about safe logging in. Here too, it must always be possible for people to be able to find a place where there are problems. That is, of course, very important in these situations. Then there was the question: we have already discussed it on the subject of technology independent and the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. I have said something about this before, namely that we think it is so important that legislation on technology can always be adapted to the state of the art. With this law, too, we have seen that making a law can take a long time. Two years ago, the law was passed, but of course it has a longer course. I think it's been four years since we started making this law. In the meantime, of course, technology has progressed. I think it is incredibly important that we make sure that the main points are... We were just talking about the comparison with cars. Exactly what that is is laid down in the law, but in lower regulation we ensure that we can make adjustments. That is also why we have not followed the Council of State in this respect, although we have incorporated many other elements in the opinion. Then the checklist digitization of the Council of State. It's from the report we talked about earlier today. That report is from after de novelle, but fortunately for the most part fits in with it. An important issue from this is the recommendation to increase intensively with implementation. In the explanatory notes on the AMvBs, we also indicated how we deal with the different interests of the opinions of the Council of State. There is also the theme of human beings, namely that the SDO should provide good, safe and reliable services to the citizens and businesses of the Netherlands. Then there is the question of Agency Telecom's supervision. That was a question from Mrs Dekker of D66. Is that well taken care of? With an amendment, your Chamber has appointed this supervisor directly for this legislation. I agree with that, too. Agency Telecom has been monitoring the eRecognization system for many years. In the meantime, it has developed knowledge for this and has sufficient capacity to do so. GroenLinks' question was about the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Is it equipped enough to do the job? Monitoring privacy by design is a subject in which I am personally involved. They are, of course, already monitoring the processing of personal data. It's not gonna be any different. It is important, however, that we ensure that the AP uses sufficient capacity and time to do so. I'd like to discuss that with them. Then there is Mr Bontenbal's question. I think I've already discussed it. It dealt in particular with the relationship between the technique and the underlying law. How's that organized? In practice, enforcement means that the law and the ministerial regime regulate authorisation for authentication services, authorisation services, etc., and so on, which comply with the state of the art. The supervisory authority shall monitor the requirements of the laws and regulations. The enforcement involved is, of course, a consequence of this supervision. Then I turn to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz' question. How does the Digital Government Act relate to the eIDAS Regulation? The WDO is in line with that. The SDO regulates more than the eIDAS currently does. The current version of that directive says that it should be possible to do business with the governments with different means of logging in within Europe, so that you can also work with the Belgian or German authorities with your DigiD, for example, if you want to take care of something there. This is not entirely settled in all cases, as we discussed yesterday. The SDO ensures that there are additional obligations and standards to ensure that this is done safely. Think, for example, of a lock on the websites, the security requirements imposed on governments and the foundations of the responsibilities in the so-called generic data infrastructure we have, such as the DigiD. We also have additional requirements for the logs, on top of the eIDAS. There is, of course, no revision of it yet, so we cannot yet say how it fits. However, on the basis of the current eIDAS, we ensure that the logs meet additional requirements. Mrs Rajkowski asked: what about the legal regulation of standards or their compulsory use? Cabinet policy is that open standards are applied, unless a government organisation has reason not to. We work with the theme "pass or explain." We don't make it mandatory until this is the end of the instruments. The legislative proposal provides for the application of open standards to be mandatory. This will enable us to organise its proper functioning. The need for an indication or otherwise will be included in the AMvB, but in principle we work with the open standards. Then there is Mrs Dekker's evaluation question: can we do it after three years instead of five years? Of course, in the coming years, service providers or providers of logging resources will gradually connect to the system. The question is whether it is sufficiently mature to do so after three years. We think it's more effective to do it after five years than after three years. However, we believe it is important to have interim monitoring of the functioning of the system, to ensure that we see who is reporting as a provider of credentials, how it works, how it works, and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thanks for the answer. Monitoring itself is a good idea. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send an annual report to the Chamber as a result of the monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u164	Yeah, sure. Then there is Mrs Leijten's question about the report by Bits of Freedom. She made a point and didn't necessarily ask a question. The study found that a dozen municipalities have not yet complied with the privacy directives. Fortunately, things are going well, but there are also things that are not going well. Follow-up of supervisory advice is now being developed by these municipalities. This means that we are working hard to implement the recommendations of Bits of Freedom, which I support. I will ensure that there is a conversation between us and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to ensure that the municipalities that do not yet meet all the requirements are actually helped to do so. Then I get to the last four short cubes. First of all, a question from Mrs Rajkowski: is it true that the choice of open or closed source falls into lower regulation and is being put forward? We submitted the draft decision to you in December 2021. It shall include the obligations of the parties. It also sets out which interests are weighed. It also states that parties should use open source for the designated processes. It is also laid down that these indications take into account security and continuity. So we have indeed indicated this in the AMvBs. Then there is Mrs Dekker's question about inter-administrative supervision. It is mainly about whether it is possible to monitor public service providers. Of course, the trade minister is responsible for inter-administrative supervision. At BZK we are that for the National Institute for Identity Data and Logius, the parties that manage the DigiD. For municipalities and water boards, the provinces supervise them. Following earlier questions from the VNG and IPO, I discussed the possibility of a more direct supervision from the Empire to ensure that that is better and more adequate, because it was very difficult for some of the provinces and waterboards to shape that supervision properly. We've made a solution for that. It is now ahead of the board of IPO and the VNG. I have no signals that they will not agree, but expect another response. I will make sure that your Chamber is informed accordingly. The idea is to make this monitoring of parts more central. Then there was Mrs Dekker's question as to whether I know if municipalities are able to implement the WDO in good time. For the connection of municipalities to the digital log-in system, a connection schedule is agreed and laid down in a ministerial arrangement. I will, of course, do so in good consultation with the service providers. This connection schedule is based on a gradual integration of all service providers in the coming period, in principle from 1 April 2023 to 1 April 2026. To support them in doing so, we provide additional advice. The start and lead time from April 1st is mainly to ensure that we actually enable municipalities to join. We hope, of course, that as many parties as possible will do so as soon as possible. Then there was a question from Mrs Dekker about big tech. I think I've already answered it, but I'm gonna go through it. How do we ensure that we all can't just log in with big tech resources? This can only be done if they meet all the requirements. We will always ensure that there is always a public means of logging in, both for residents and for citizens and businesses. That question was asked by Mr Bontenbal. This way it is not necessary to use a private login, but you can also choose a public login. Then there is Mr Bontenbal's question as to how we can prevent unreliable parties. Of course, they only become subject to compliance with the access requirements. Such recognition can always be refused if there is state security or cybersecurity. We pre-check and make sure that these parties are carefully looked at. There are, of course, all kinds of instruments to ensure that parties that we do not think could participate are effectively excluded. Then I come to the final theme, brought up by two parties, at least by GroenLinks. It's about inclusion: is it possible for anyone to participate? We have indicated that it should always be possible for people not to use a digital login method. You also said: but then it must also be properly arranged, so that you do not, as a result, have many different forms or lots of different counters and so on and so on. We have to do it right. This is important, not only in this case but also in many other areas. When using digital means of logging, it is important that there is an opportunity for people to get help with this. This is happening now, for example, because people can go to the library and be helped there. I therefore consider it important not only to have an alternative for people who do not want to use these digital methods at all, but also to ensure that people who do want to do so but need help to do so properly are supported. Then I think I'm through all the subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Bouchallichh, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u166	I'm glad the Secretary of State also has a specific eye for this group. My question was still about a sentence section in the pleading that it should remain possible for alternatives to be possible: why was it used at all? Because I hear the Secretary of State often say that's not a question at all. Hence the surprise and that I wanted to think about that. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u167	If that word is actually still in it, then we have to get it out, because the core is that it should always be possible to use a non-digital way to do business with the government and get help if you need it. I would like to come back to that in the second term, but if that word is still in it, then we must make sure it is no longer in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u168	Then I'd like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. This brings us to the end of the first term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I'll suspend the sitting for a single moment and then we'll move on to the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u169	The next item is the second parliamentary term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u170	Mr. Chairman. So you can see how important it is to treat laws. 'Cause what does anyone mean by something? I asked the Secretary of State what she meant by: "This requires parties to move towards the use of open source." Something is open source or something isn't. How does she see this "movement commitment"? There was no answer to that other than: yes no, that is the intention. There remains a vagueness after this debate. The Council of State has also warned us not to become too abstract about the key elements, as they called it, for example: what do you mean by "open source" or "privacy by design"? So if you don't make that clear, you're talking about mammals instead of humans, man and horse. Then the Secretary of State says: yes, well, a car is also a car. That's exactly how much more clear the difference is. If you were to say "vehicles," we would ask: are we talking about a motorbike, a bike, a scooter or a car? No, it's about cars driving on the road that have four wheels, a door, a steering wheel and a seat belt. Then it's less abstract than when you're talking about means of transport. So the Secretary of State wants to say that I chose a car in the abstraction. But, of course, that is exactly the wrong example. In the end, we are talking about the data of people who can be used, who acquire a private organization when you log in to a government. On the question of whether you want to take that step in the present time frame, that foundation I have already mentioned, I have not seen any reflection of the Secretary of State. Do we know what we're saying yes to? Do we know what the consequences are and whether people can communicate digitally with the government in a secure way if this is done by a private organisation? I don't think we can say yes to that. That's the intention, but we can't say yes to it. The main elements are vaguely defined. I shall have the opinion of the amendment. This is being changed, by the way, because Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz asked if she would be allowed to sign with us. I think we have now put it more firmly. The Secretary of State now says: we want the data with properties of you, the things that are worth money, not to be used anymore, not to be used commercially, but to disappear. That's not in the law, but the Secretary of State said so. In fact, we should make an amendment to that effect if that is the intention. Necessary data, such as that there has been contact between Mrs Leijten and the UWV, which you want to show if the UWV says that an objection is inadmissible in a manner of speaking, you could also do with a copy that someone gets in the mail. Then you don't have to store that data. It's very good you can't trade it, but you can't use it anymore... What if the provider of the login system also does all kinds of other things, for example commercial things? Then it will be re-used in its own organization. An organization like Google could do that. They could then offer tailor-made products. That's convenient, because they know you're a job seeker. Maybe you'll get promoted job sites by Google. That may be useful, but those data have been obtained because you are working on a public service and not because you say, "Hey, that's convenient! Google, will you help me find a job?'. And that's what we're talking about here. Mr. Chairman. I think it's a bit of a weird motion. You can, of course, make that request: can we first have a ministerial arrangement and then vote? I just asked the Secretary of State, but then she said: there is not yet, and I don't know what time it is. You can make a ministerial arrangement a general measure of governance and preside over it in the Chamber, so you can see it. But in fact, I would just like to say: go ahead with this ministerial arrangement and then we will vote on the law. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State warns at the novelle of the Digital Government Act that in the case of too many abstractly defined key elements "Parliament as co-legislator cannot imagine what it agrees with";]] [[considers that it is necessary to know how the government is shaping key elements of ministerial regulation such as "open source" and "privacy by design";]] [[calls on the government to send the ministerial regulation to the Chamber before we vote on the bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35868-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u171	I just need to add a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you. Then we go to Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State for the commitment to send a monitor with an annual report to the Chamber. That's comforting. It also reassures us that aggregated data and metadata are in this law. That is why our amendment is not necessary. So I'm not going to file that. I did support Mrs Leijten's amendment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that you do not have the guarantee that the code base will be maintained at closed source either. At open source you certainly have more eyes to watch with. That's why I'm filing a motion. I hope that the House will support me in taking this motion a small step forward. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas open source can make software safer and more reliable through common control;]] [[Whereas the Open Government Act also covers all public source code;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to include open source as a minimum requirement in the Digital Government Act, but in accordance with the "open source, unless" principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35868-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs Rajkowski of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we want the public gallery empty, we have to say 'open source' very often. There are still a few fighters in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u177	Those are new people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u178	Those are new people! The public gallery was full when we started this debate. Maybe that's for ourselves, but okay. Mr. Chairman. We say it's important that we put parts of apps, codes and systems online. I'm talking about open source or open standards. They can ultimately contribute to the fact that we have more control. The government becomes less dependent on a few suppliers because some of the codes are public. You can therefore detect sensitivities and patch them more easily. I'm still worried about the how and what. We're not open source experts. You notice here again that we struggle a little bit with that. In the meantime I threw some on Twitter and I got some nice comments on that. One person indicated: at open source it is important that volunteers do not become the basis, but a meaningful addition. I think that is a bit at the heart of the debate we have just had about the community. So I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how she's going to organize it. 'Cause that's what it's in for us in the end. The VVD is not at all an opponent of open source, we think it is a very nice tool, but by "blind staring" we mean that we have to arrange it well with each other to make it work. Mr President, my final question. Is DigiD actually open source or should it become more open source? Or is there an exception for the public solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you. You really said "fun reactions on Twitter"? That's pretty special at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u180	People were pretty nice. It's possible, it's possible!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u181	It would be nice if we were more positive on Twitter. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be honest, I'm disappointed. I've asked a lot of questions. I found the law amendment unclear, unclear. I thought it was me, but I didn't. Actually, the confusion has only gotten bigger with me. Because, as I said in the first term, the legal text seems to hint at the implementation of open source that is necessary for transparency according to government's own standard policy: just publish, everyone can see if it's okay. The explanatory statement is linked to that other thought of: no, everyone should be able to use it for free, adapt it and so on, and so on. I asked which one it is. Now there comes a kind of mix, and kind of compromise proposal, all of a sudden, out of nowhere, out of nowhere: publishing is enough, but there has to be a community around it. If we ask a little bit of questions, then what is this community and what is enough? There won't be a single view. Then I'm having a lot of trouble estimating what we're about to say yes to. I really have a problem with that. Again, I don't want to slow down the WDO, because a lot of parties are jumping around and it's been going on for so long. But yes, give us something, a view! I'm gonna try one more time about this community. Let me give you an example. Microsoft has a lot of open source projects. The project leaders are Microsoft employees. Of course volunteers also work on it, and they change things about it, but the Microsoft people decide what does and what doesn't change. The big tech companies, let me say that in the direction of my colleague from D66, are not keeping you out of the door, because all the big tech companies have now released open source. They're even a very big driver in the open source movement. Also Facebook, Meta, the great bogeyman here always, has opened its framework for the user interface years ago, and it is now one of the most used. Microsoft's biggest programming languages and frameworks are also open source. So on the one hand, you don't keep the big tech companies out of the door. By the way, I'm not paid by the big tech companies, but this is an illustration of how we talk past each other. So what's the community? How many people is that? Do they have to be volunteers? 'Cause you can pretty much... I understand now that a lot of companies don't care about this ugly novel, because they can work around it, for example by putting it on GitLab at the time of publication. A few of your employees will be the community. So now I understand why they're not worried. But that's not what we all want. So why don't you just follow your own government policy and say, fine, you can join, but publish the code, so we know it's an agreement. In any event, the PVV considers that it is sufficient to publish and disclose the source code of the implementation part of the software to ensure adequate transparency. And we should simply make this mandatory with this change of law: for new providers immediately and for existing providers possibly with a short transition period in order to clean or untangle the code. I don't think that's too much to ask. And again, not everything has to be published. The security part may well be omitted, but what is done with the personal data and how it works should simply become public. Again, with regard to the whole discussion of "that kind of open source isn't there yet": when closed source is there and you publish it, it is open source. It's as simple as that. It should be that simple. So the security part doesn't necessarily have to, even to make the evildoers not too easy. Finally, I have very serious doubts as to whether this is sufficient for the Upper House. I don't think so. Frankly, I find it very difficult to pass this novelle after this debate. In any case, I am considering one amendment to clarify the "open source" qualification. Companies who may also be waiting to offer a product need to know what they are up to. So one more time: is it enough to publish the code and have a community around it, or should it also be made available for free? So can it be under a restrictive license as long as that community is around it? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When is a step forward enough? For me, that is the question that lies above this discussion. GroenLinks has previously voted against this law and, together with D66, tabled an amendment that will give us a heavier front, so that we can have a better view of the AMvBs. As far as we are concerned, that is a good step forward. So is this novelle. We still have doubts as to whether that is enough. So I would also like to thank my colleague for the good discussion here today. We will certainly take that into account in our final assessment of the vote. Then I have one motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u185	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u186	I don't have it all sharp. Of course, I wasn't at the previous lawsuits. Maybe Mrs. Bouchallichh can't answer this question either, you know. Giving AMvBs a heavier front is good. Then you may be able to do something in that veil time, although that often doesn't really lead to anything. But is it also the case that the ministerial arrangements have become AMvBs? Or do they remain ministerial arrangements? 'Cause, of course, they're completely out of our sight. They'll be published. That's exactly what the Council of State points out. We could also upgrade the ministerial arrangements to AMVBs that are being hung. Then my motion could lapse. I have just been typing that motion during the debate, but we could also think about that. That would mean that we could have a new debate here once the ministerial arrangement has been completed. At the same time, the point remains: what exactly do we say yes to when we vote in favour of this bill? But that's actually another question. So my question is: have the ministerial arrangements been included in that amendment on those AMVBs with heavy fronts? If I ask you about that, you should tell me, because I don't know. I should have it in order, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u187	One thing I learned as a starting MP is that you should never bluff. So I'm not gonna pretend. I don't know. That is exactly my dilemma. So I am also pleased with these questions, because I am constantly searching: when is it enough, and have we taken sufficient steps in the past? I find it truly difficult in this legal process, and also in previous legal proceedings. Then there's once a good idea, and then it's finally set in motion and we're sitting here talking about something that I think was this supposed to be? Those are also the questions and the assessment frameworks that I take into account in weighing this up, fortunately also with support. I wanted to give you that, because when I hear the Secretary of State, I can see that steps are being taken forward. At the same time: if the First Chamber sends back something because it is not yet sufficient, I find it complicated to see to what extent it is sufficiently set to what has been said there. That's just a matter of not having quite the ability to estimate that. That's still a trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u188	The motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u189	Apart from that, regardless of the outcome, we do have a motion to contribute, hopefully, to making it a little better than it is now. The motion is about accessibility. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a large group of people struggling with the use of electronic means;]] [[whereas it is therefore important that everyone should always be able to identify themselves in a non-digital way, both now and in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there will always be a possibility of non-digital identification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35868-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u190	Finally, I would like to repeat what I said earlier. I've heard the Secretary of State say before that she's really gonna take care of this. That's a way for me to record it. Then I hope I won't have to ask again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Rajkowski on the motion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u192	Not to be annoying, but I think this is really out of order. Otherwise, I can also bring up all the issues on the underlying legislative proposal or on the subject on a wide scale. In my view, it is also superfluous because we voted on a similar motion two weeks ago. Anyway, I'm not about giving judgment. But I think this is really out of order, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u193	I have a suggestion for what you might be able to do. There will be another debate on digital issues. You could hold the motion so that there could be more debate on this subject. I'll give you that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u194	I would like to comment on this, Mr President. The reason for me to talk about this is a sentence that I have literally quoted from the pleading. Then you may find that it does not fall within the scope of this debate; there may be differences of opinion. But it does come from one of the documents on the agenda today. So that's why I'm filing the motion today. I understand that I might make a different assessment than you would, but it's what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u195	I understand. However, I do not think that there is a discussion here about 'whether or not it is true'. This is a novelle. That means that the only thing we are going to talk about here in the Lower House is what the Upper House has asked questions about. That was not on this subject; I think that is simply quite factual. That's not to be annoying, but if we're going to do this in debates like this, I'm going to provide a kind of freedom of all kinds of motions and instruments, while we want to frame and focus more during debates. So I'm not doing it because of the subject, but I like it so much if we can have more debates on what's ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u196	I understand that very well, and if we're going to work like this with each other in the future, I'd be happy to deal with that, but I'd like us all to do that. That is also a bit of the question I sometimes have, because I have taken one specific sentence out of the document that is on the agenda and I have tabled a motion on it. I think I'll enforce the motion now, and then maybe next time I'll pay more attention to that. I hope we'll all be tilting together, or it'll depend on one or two people here. I don't think that's how it works either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Bontenbal, CDA. Know in any case that we are also working within the Working Method Committee to see how we deal with motions and appreciations. So at least there is going to be some sharpness from my point of view towards Presidium to see how we can reduce the number of motions a little bit, but that is separate from the discussion that just arose. Mr. Bontenbal, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I had six questions. A whole number of them have been answered or somewhat answered, but as time goes on this debate I have indeed started to worry about how we are steering towards open source and, in particular, about the motivation behind it. The Secretary of State seems to say that open source is full transparency plus a community. If I understood correctly, we didn't really define exactly what that community is. Then I get the impression that open source as a means is made more important than the goal, namely that it is clear what happens with this type of login. So I would like another reflection on that. This point does allow me to get a little confused out of this debate. I don't know exactly what I'm gonna do with that either. I am very curious to see any amendments tabled by colleagues on this subject. I find it very interesting to look at that. I will also look closely at the motion from D66, which says similar things about this. So I would also like to say to my fellow Members: let us see what is left to repair. But I have the same inconvenience as a number of colleagues, especially about steering on open source, when the reason is not quite clear to me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u199	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u200	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a few questions I would like to answer. I shall, of course, also deal with the motions and amendments. The first question comes from the first period. It was about keeping the data. That was a question from Mrs Leijten and Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz. It was about the issue of whether we are going to settle in this decision what kind of... No, I have to say as well: what type of data may be kept and how long; what is regulated? The starting point is data minimising, so don't use personal data that you don't need. It is true that we only want to use data that can help and support in solving problems. No personal data is stored, except for the login data. In particular, it should be possible to search if someone has logged in to what type of organisation. But it doesn't log exactly what changed with that organization. GroenLinks' question was whether the word "still" could be removed from the explanatory statement. In fact, the answer to that question is: yes, with this debate. This debate is also legal history. This means that the word is out for the time being, because it is intended that it should always be possible for people not to be digitally in contact with the government and to arrange things that need to be arranged, as I have already indicated in the previous answer. This could include taxes, benefits or whatever. Then there was Mrs Dekker's question about the open community. That is actually a question that Mrs Rajkowski has also asked and by a number of others in the second term. That question was: can you be a little sharper about what you mean by that community? We're talking about open source software. We want to use them as much as we can. In other words, if possible, we want to ensure that we get the best possible products and services, as safe and reliable as possible. That means that the source codes must be public, but also that there must be a community. The question was: what should we imagine in such a community? I said we'd better define that in the ministerial arrangement. As far as I am concerned, this community is made up of a number of people who do not necessarily have to be volunteers. They are engaged in improving software. So they can also be people who work at the company that developed the code. The idea is that it is an open community, so that others can participate and that this group is of some size and is mainly focused on making the software that is used better. So the community doesn't just have to consist of volunteers or people who only do it for free, but the community must be such that it is open and others can participate. In this way, we organize that enough attention is paid to improving the software from different angles. The subject of open source is, of course, not something we are discussing for the first time in this law. The government has said before that it finds a way to go, because the communist opinio is that open source helps to make better software. It ensures that it is available to other parties and that smaller parties can also figure out and enter the market. That's actually the essence of it. Once again, we are going to describe this further in the ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u202	This is finally some sort of interpretation, but in the last sentence something crawled with it. It's about publishing the source code and the community with the description the Secretary of State just gave. Is there a requirement that the source code is free of charge by others...? So there may be a restrictive license on it, as long as that community is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u203	Sure. It doesn't have to be free. It's not always free either. There is free open source code, but it doesn't have to be free. I hope I have answered your second question; I would come back to that. Then Mrs Rajkowski's question is whether DigiD is open source. That is not the case at the moment. It doesn't fully work with open source software. That is because it cannot be safely used for all processes at the moment. But DigiD, of course, needs to be able to do the same, as well as other means of logging in. We want to shape the growth path for this in the coming period. Then I'll go to the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 10 by Mrs Leijten, who says that the ministerial regulation should be sent to the Chamber before the Chamber can vote on the bill. That is actually a reversal of what we normally do, namely that a law is first made and that then underlying legislation is followed in the form of AMvBs or ministerial arrangements. This bill therefore includes AMvBs, which have already been sent to you in advance. The idea is that we start with the contours of the law and then fill it out. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore not wise to make the ministerial rule first and then vote on the law. I understand very well that it is important for the ministerial arrangement to be good and insightful for you, so that you know exactly what is being arranged around open source, the community and so on. I would therefore like to offer that I will actively send the ministerial arrangement to you. If you consider that this ministerial arrangement does not meet the requirements you would like to make, we can, of course, discuss them with each other afterwards. So my proposal is to actively send out the ministerial regulation, but of course after the vote on the law first. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u204	With the Secretary of State's proposal, of course, it remains that we do not know what we say yes to when we vote on the law. We have not solved this fundamental issue. But I can also see that the Secretary of State wants to make a move. Does she mean she'll send us the ministerial arrangement when it's done and we can change something? Because I think it is very difficult to preside over a ministerial arrangement. Then you should actually turn it into an AMvB and put it up front. If the Secretary of State is prepared to do so by letter of amendment, we will keep a physical eye on what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u205	If we are going to discuss the ministerial arrangement, the things that we are going to deal with and the definitions and you want to do otherwise, then of course we must be able to have that discussion. Then we should also be able to change it if necessary. Period. But of course it is not the same kind of instrument as a law. But again, I think it is important, also heard today's debate, that we and the people who are watching with us understand what is happening. It is about technology, it is sometimes complex and much changes in that world. We must ensure that not only the ministry, but also the Lower House and later the First Chamber keep a clear view of what is happening. So it is also my idea to debate this, if necessary, because you can also say: I am fine with what is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u206	But I'd like to get that straight. Then I would ask the Secretary of State to make these ministerial arrangements, which contain the main elements, general administrative measures and to make them available. This also means that the Upper House could say that it wants to talk about this. You can discuss a ministerial arrangement with us, but we cannot force that equipment. The moment you have an AMvB in a law, that's just the length of the day, even if we and the good Secretary of State are gone. Then it's the system of the law. So I'm gonna ask her to do it like this. If she doesn't want to take care of it that way, I think the Chamber should. But then we have to see if we can make it through next week's vote, because of course we have more work to do. Anyway, we're gonna have to take care of that. But in fact, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to make it pure and to come up with a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u207	To be honest, that is another step too far. Once again, I think it is important for us to be able to monitor closely what is happening in this legislation. It is very important that this is well arranged. I'm actively sending the ministerial arrangement to you. In any case, such an arrangement is public. We can talk about that then. Mrs Leijten knows me as someone who always listens carefully to what the Chamber says. So I'd like to talk to you about it, too. We can talk about it if that ministerial arrangement doesn't meet the requirements. But I don't think it's wise to change it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u208	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u209	I really need to do my best not to lose my patience. The Secretary of State says, "I don't want to do it any different now." No, she's gotta do it the way it's supposed to! That means you're making a general measure of governance. Then you appreciate the co-legislator's control function, which can then say: we want veils, afterhangs or both. They can still be heavy. That's the right thing to do under state law. The Secretary of State says, "I don't want to do it any different now." But it's not the Secretary of State who decides the route. It's a law. I'm announcing that we're filing the motion to upgrade it ourselves. But I assume that the Secretary of State has said here: he will be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u210	I'm not judging Chamber on anything I can't yet judge or say. Again, the system of the law is indeed that there are both AMvBs and ministerial arrangements, with the aim of enabling us to regulate this properly on the basis of changes in technology or otherwise other providers. The request of the Chamber is to have a proper exchange of views on this matter. I would, of course, like to make that clear. I would like to do that in the way I have indicated. That's how I dissuade the motion. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 11 by Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz. It does not want open source as a minimum requirement in the law, but opts for the principle "open source unless." We shall, as far as possible, address the open source principle and the obligation, apart from cases where security or continuity is at stake. I agree with Mrs Dekker and I would therefore like to give this motion a Chamber judgment. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12. It calls on the government to ensure that there will always be a possibility of non-digital identification. In April, the Bill Modernising electronic administrative traffic was adopted by this Chamber. The draft law proposed two articles which together give the right to non-electronic traffic with administrative bodies. This also concerns non-digital identification. If that bill becomes law, it will give citizens that right. As far as I am concerned, the motion is superfluous. I will give the motion judgment Chamber because it is in line with what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u211	Is it possible, then, to take over the motion? Let me take a look at my fellow Members to see if they have any objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u212	Then I would like the motion to be taken over, because we should not vote on something that has already been settled. Then we don't have to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u213	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u214	I'll see if there's any objection. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u215	The Secretary of State has my motion in part No. 10 dissuade. I asked her whether she would like to make the ministerial arrangement an AMvB with veils. I have announced that I will do so myself. In fact, this motion has become superfluous. It remains that we do not know what we are saying yes to, but if this is adopted, we will gain more control over what is happening in the elaboration of the law. I think I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u217	Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz. That amendment reinforces that private providers should not use the data for commercial purposes. They're not allowed to trade that data either. This also applies to the improvement of service activities. I'm happy to give the amendment judgment Chamber. It tightens up the ban on trade. I have therefore answered the question and dealt with the motions and amendments. I think it was good to discuss these technical elements in this debate. I welcome the fact that we will continue to look closely at this in the coming period. It is important for all of us that we have what we agree and what we do and what we don't, especially when it comes to subjects relating to citizens' data and private data and to the provision of services to our government. We are making improvements to this and we want to ensure that no mistakes are made. I hope that this law can be brought to a successful conclusion with everything we have discussed. That's gonna happen sometime this week or next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the Secretary of State and the spokesmen. I liked the debate. Thanks for letting me run that on my birthday. I wouldn't want to be anywhere but here. Thank you to the people in the public gallery. Thanks to the backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u219	The plan is that next Tuesday we will vote on the bill, the amendment and the motion. If that doesn't work out, I'll find out next week. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.10 p.m. Then we'll start with a different legal treatment.
